Skip To Content Vision Impact Events Initiatives News Timeline Shop Lighting the way for 100 Years What began as a teachers college in Downtown Los Angeles grew into one of the world’s greatest universities. An engine of social mobility. A catalyst for progress and profound insights once beyond our reach. For 100 years, leading the way toward a better tomorrow. 1927 Construction Begins on Westwood campus 1964 UCLA Basketball's Powerhouse Status Begins 1993 The UCLA César E. Chávez Center is Founded 2009 First Volunteer Day Leads to new Volunteer Center 2017 Horace Mann UCLA Community School Opens in South LA 1927 Construction Begins on Westwood campus 1964 UCLA Basketball's Powerhouse Status Begins 1993 The UCLA César E. Chávez Center is Founded 2009 First Volunteer Day Leads to new Volunteer Center 2017 Horace Mann UCLA Community School Opens in South LA Using the button below, explore a timeline of our first 100 years. Discover our humble first steps, our most life-changing breakthroughs. Meet the people and moments that have shaped us, and the people and moments we have shaped. Start Exploring Centennial Pillars This was more than a celebration. It was a recognition of a century of our shared commitment to the public good. To the welfare of Los Angeles and the world. To opportunity and progress. To you. Coming of Age Over the past 100 years, great things have happened here. Groundbreaking things. Things that changed our world for the better. Our 100-year milestone is a moment of reflection and celebration, but also the beginning of our next era - with more to discover and more to accomplish. Leading the Way The impact of UCLA over the last century is the result of generations of Bruins and a shared commitment to the public good. From the first internet transmission to the first mother in space to the first player to break the color barrier in Major League Baseball. This is a campus of firsts. When the world says “that’s impossible” – we say “it can be done.” Opportunity For All UCLA is not only one of the world’s greatest research universities, it is an engine of social mobility and progress. Beginning in the fall of 2019, a series of year-long centennial initiatives will continue to expand our commitment to service and equity. Only Here Our connection with Los Angeles doesn't end with our name. The city’s forward-thinking, progressive nature has shaped UCLA as UCLA has shaped Los Angeles. Together, pioneering culture, research, and innovation transforming our world. Centennial Events Centennial News New mural captures campus history and UCLA’s future View More Old traditions, new forms: Virtual celebrations honor graduates View More Housing inequality in Los Angeles is focus of new UCLA Data for Democracy brief View More See all News Centennial Events Sponsor Join our email list and stay connected to the centennial celebration. Subscribe UCLA Centennial Vision Impact Events Initiatives News Timeline Store Information Careers Directory Contact Academic Calendar Maps, Directions Parking & Transportation Emergency Campus Values Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Environment & Sustainability True Bruin Statement Volunteerism Give to UCLA Event Venues Luskin Conference Center Event Planning Film Production General inquiries: centennial@ucla.edu ©2022 Regents of the University of California Terms of Use Accessibility