Harvard Law Bicentennial Menu Close Primary Navigation Stories Moments History Timelines Trivia International Map Events Talks About Featured Video: Harvard Law School Bicentennial 1817-2017 Harvard Law School Bicentennial 1817-2017 Stories View All Stories Moved To Question Prepared To Reason Called To Act Explore More HLS Stories View First Year Dilemma standard First Year Dilemma Scarcely two months after Registration, every entering student is thrust into the ordeal of his first Ames argument. Suddenly he must play the role of a lawyer with an appellate case to handle. Faced with a record from a trial court, he must write a brief and compose the oral argument he will soon present. For many a first year student, even with a member of the Board of Student Advisers to coach and advise him, the experience resembles seeing a lake for the first time and, after a few hints on technique, being thrown in and told to swim. View "To be in a position where you can make a difference..." quote To be in a position where you can make a difference in the lives of your fellow citizens is one of the rare privileges of public life. Michael Dukakis '60, Former Governor of Massachusetts View Talking About a Revolution gallery Talking About a Revolution View Versatile and Nimble link Versatile and Nimble View Meeting at Cops’ Corner link Meeting at Cops’ Corner View All Stories Explore All Stories HLS in the Community Review an exploration of the school's local and global contributions of service at an event that took place in April 2018. Learn More Featured Video: Treasures of the Harvard Law School Library | The Nuremberg Trial Documents Treasures of the Harvard Law School Library | The Nuremberg Trial Documents News HLS in the Community Speaker Highlight: Haben Girma ’13 Disability rights activist Haben Girma ’13 joins Michael Stein ’88, Alonzo Emery ’10, and Fengming Cui at HLS in the Community in Enabling the World Through Disabilities, a workshop that will focus on advancing the rights of people with disabilities around the world. As the first deafblind person to graduate from Harvard Law School, Haben Girma… Read More about HLS in the Community Speaker Highlight: Haben Girma ’13 HLS200 Highlight: HLS Clinical Programs In preparation for HLS in the Community, an exploration of the school’s local and global contributions of service, we have added highlights of the HLS clinical programs to HLS200. Explore new stories, the development of the clinical program throughout HLS’s history, and see the global impact of the clinics. Read More about HLS200 Highlight: HLS Clinical Programs Collections | Connections The Harvard Law School Library’s new exhibit celebrates HLS’s Bicentennial through the stories of some of the Library’s 2 million items and the people behind them. On view are historic photographs, striking rare books and early manuscripts, books published all over the world, fun glimpses of HLS Library history, and even an Awesome Box! Collections… Read More about Collections | Connections View More News Credit: Martha Stewart Credit: Martha Stewart Harvard Law School: 200 Years, Countless Stories A full-text transcript and credits for "Harvard Law School: 200 Years, Countless Stories" are available here. Learn More Secondary Navigation Stories Moments History Events Talks About Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Copyright © 2022 Harvard Law Bicentennial