Skip to Main Content Brown University Commencement for the Class of 2020 Search Menu Site Navigation Home Overview Celebrate on Social For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Updates Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream Search Commencement for the Class of 2020 Parking for Commencement Weekend Breadcrumb Home Plan Your Visit Sub Navigation In This Section Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging Parking for Commencement Weekend Where to park for the various events over the weekend. General Parking Guidance Although the University has made additional parking spaces available on campus for guests over Commencement Weekend, please keep in mind that the University is expecting an unprecedented number of people on campus for Commencement Weekend 2022, as we welcome back our Class of 2020 alumni and their families as well as our 2022 graduates. For this reason, parking spaces will be significantly limited, and guests should consider this when making plans. You should be prepared to walk a distance from your parking area, so consider wearing comfortable shoes and provide plenty of time to arrive for events. You may want to consider using public transportation or arranging a ride share instead of driving to campus. Brown Lots and Street Parking The University has made additional parking spaces available on campus. However, due to very high traffic volume and street closures, parking is challenging during Commencement Weekend and we ask that you plan accordingly when arriving for events and activities. You may leave your car in any of the University lots at any time from Friday at 5:00 pm through the end of the weekend. The largest lot on campus is the Power Street lot (both lower and upper levels) at the corner of Power and Thayer streets. The top-level entrance is on Power Street; the bottom-level entrance is on the corner of Williams and Brook streets. Additional parking is available at The Wheeler School, 216 Hope St. in Providence (enter between Angel St. and Stimson Ave.), and Hope High School, 324 Hope St. in Providence, from Friday evening through Sunday evening, May 27-May 29. (Visit the link to the printable campus map below.) Parking Tips Carry comfortable shoes for walking to and from your vehicle. Remember to lock your vehicle, whether it is on the street or in a lot, and do not leave items, such as gifts for graduates or luggage, exposed. Even though hourly parking restrictions are waived for Commencement/Reunion Weekend, do observe the city’s parking laws and emergency no parking signs. Any car parked in a temporary emergency no parking tow zone, in marked handicapped spaces without a placard, in violation of a fire hydrant, blocking driveways, or obstructing Brown police or Providence police sawhorses will be towed at the owner’s expense. Parking is prohibited on George Street from Prospect Street to Brown Street, on Brown Street from George Street to Benevolent Street, and on Waterman Street from Prospect Street to Thayer Street. Also, there is no parking on Providence city streets from 2:00 am to 5:00 am. Please remember to lock your car, whether it is on the street or in a lot. Do observe city parking laws; any cars parked in a temporary emergency no parking tow zone, in marked handicapped spaces without a placard, in violation of a fire hydrant, blocking driveways, or obstructing Brown Police or Providence Police sawhorses will be ticketed or towed at owner’s expense. There is no parking on any Providence city street from 2 a.m. - 5 a.m. Printable Campus Map Parking Shuttle Shuttles will be available to transport guests from the Jewelry District neighborhood, southwest of Downtown Providence where Lot 200 and Lot 222 are located, to the main campus during Commencement and Reunion Weekend. Please note: masking is required on all Brown University shuttles. Shuttle operating hours Friday, May 27: 5-10 p.m. Saturday, May 28 and Sunday, May 29: 8 a.m.-6 p.m. Shuttles will operate on a continual loop during operating hours. Shuttle stops George Street between Brown and Thayer Lot 200 (200 Dyer St.) Lot 222 (280 Richmond St.) near the Warren Alpert Medical School Download the BrownU App to view the shuttle's location in real-time. Handicapped Parking Two handicapped designated lots (lots 76 and 44) are available for those who completed the handicapped parking form by May 1. Passes will be mailed out in May to those who reserved a space. Drop Off Passes are recommended for individuals who will be transporting guests with mobility concerns who are able to navigate the campus themselves. These passes allow individuals to drop guests off near the College Green on Commencement Day. Drivers then park their vehicle on campus or in the local area. This pass does not provide any reserved parking for the holder. Learn more about accessibility accommodations Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Overview Celebrate on Social For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Updates Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Parking for Commencement Weekend Open details for Parking for Commencement Weekend Bookmark this Page