Skip to Main Content Brown University Commencement for the Class of 2020 Search Menu Site Navigation Home Overview Celebrate on Social For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Updates Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream Search Commencement for the Class of 2020 Weekend Overview for the Class 2020 Weekend Overview for the Class 2020 Members of the Class of 2020 will return to College Hill for their long-awaited Commencement celebration. Please see the schedule of events below to learn more about what is being planned for you and check back frequently as we will update this page as more details are confirmed. Registration is required for many Class of 2020 events and will open for the undergraduate Class of 2020 on April 18. As with all Commencement and Reunion weekends, a full schedule will be published later this spring of performances, open houses and other events for you and your guests to enjoy. Please be advised that the schedule and associated details may change to remain in compliance with public health protocols. Friday, May 27, 2022 Undergraduate Class of 2020 Check-in Noon to 10 p.m. | Pembroke Green Stop by the Class of 2020 check-in tent on Pembroke Campus when you arrive on campus to pick up everything you need to enjoy the weekend, including your name badge, tickets, regalia and a special gift from the Brown Alumni Association. Members of the Class of 2020 will be asked to select a check-in time frame when completing their online registration. Graduate Class of 2020 Check-in Noon to 6 p.m. | Horace Mann Stop by the Class of 2020 check-in to pick up everything you need to enjoy the weekend, including your name badge, tickets, regalia and Brown swag from the Graduate School. "Last Meal at the Ratty" Welcome Back Event 7 to 9 p.m. | Sharpe Refectory Come and enjoy one last meal at the Ratty! This signature senior week event has been reimagined to welcome the undergraduate Class of 2020 back to Brown and will feature your favorite Brown Dining classics, plus beer, wine and entertainment. One ticket for members of the undergraduate Class of 2020 will be provided with registration. This event is for members of the undergraduate Class of 2020. Advance registration is required. Graduate Student Council Champagne Toast 7 to 9 p.m. | Starr Plaza The GSC invites 2020 graduates, their friends and family, and the greater Graduate School community to celebrate the accomplishments of the classes of 2020 and 2022. Hors d’oeuvres, champagne and a selection of non-alcoholic beverages will be served. Guests are welcome to celebrate with us up until the onset of the Campus Dance. This event is for members of the graduate classes of 2020 and 2022 and guests. Young Alumni Social 8 to 10 p.m. | Manning Walk Tent next to MacMillan Hall Meet up with other young Brown alumni (classes 2008-2021) and catch up on your way to Campus Dance. Listen to music and enjoy ice cream, delicious Frosé (frozen Rosé) and a complimentary drink. Don’t miss the Instagram-worthy photo wall before you head to the dance! Members of the undergraduate Class of 2020 can reserve their ticket during online registration. The undergraduate Class of 2020 will be invited to this event. Advance registration is required. Campus Dance 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. | The College Green Join us for one of Brown's most loved Reunion and Commencement traditions — Campus Dance! Dance the night away on College Green and Simmons Quad under a sky lit with over 600 paper lanterns. A special section will be dedicated to Class of 2020 attendees. While tickets are required, some may want to purchase dance tables for family and friends to gather. One ticket for members of the undergraduate Class of 2020 will be provided with registration. Additional tickets for the dance will be offered at a discounted price on the Campus Dance website to Class of 2020 and their families. For a dance table, please visit the Campus Dance website. The dance is sponsored by the Brown Alumni Association. Visit the campus dance website This event is open to all. Advance registration is required for members of the undergraduate Class of 2020. Campus Dance brings people to Brown to dance the night away. Saturday, May 28, 2022 Commencement and Reunion Weekend Breakfast 7 to 9:30 a.m. | Sharpe Refectory Get energized for the day with a complete hot breakfast buffet. Choose from some of your favorites as a student — cereal, pancakes, eggs, home fries, fruit, muffins, coffee, juice and more. One ticket for members of the undergraduate Class of 2020 will be provided with online registration. All guests may purchase tickets at the door. This event is open to all. Advance registration is required for members of the undergraduate Class of 2020. Graduate Class of 2020 Check-in 7:30 to 9 a.m. | Horace Mann Stop by the Class of 2020 check-in to pick up everything you need to enjoy the weekend, including your name badge, tickets, regalia and Brown swag from the Graduate School. Class of 2020 Undergraduate Check-in 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. | Wriston Quad The Class of 2020 check-in tent on Wriston Quad will be open on Saturday for late arrivals. Stop by the tent to pick up everything you need to enjoy the weekend, including your name badge, tickets, regalia and a special gift from the Brown Alumni Association. Members of the Class of 2020 will be asked to select a check-in time frame during online registration. Forums Various Times and Locations Led by faculty, alumni and distinguished guests, these academic and topical colloquia are an integral part of Commencement and Reunion Weekend. All family members and guests are welcome to attend. Forums do not require a ticket, but seating is available on a first-come, first-served basis. These events are open to all. Explore the Forums Class of 2020 Procession through the Van Wickle Gates 9:15 a.m. (line up), 9:45 a.m. (step off) | Waterman Street by Faunce Arch Members of the Class of 2020 will take part in this Commencement tradition as they march across the College Green, through the Van Wickle Gates, and process to their Commencement Ceremonies. Members of the Undergraduate and Graduate Class of 2020 will line up on Waterman Street by Faunce Arch by 9:15 a.m. for a 9:45 a.m. step-off. Undergraduates will process to the First Baptist Church in America for their ceremony. Guests and family members are invited to watch the ceremony from the College Green, where the event will be simulcast. Graduate students will process to Simmons Quad for their ceremony. Guests of graduate students may watch the graduate ceremony on Simmons Quad. This event is for the graduate and undergraduate Class of 2020. Graduate Class of 2020 Commencement Ceremony 10:15 a.m. | Simmons Quad Graduate students who completed in October 2019, February 2020 and May 2020 will be welcomed back to campus for a ceremony that will include many of the time-honored traditions of Commencement. A procession will precede the ceremony, which will be presided over by leadership from the Graduate School and School of Professional Studies. The Graduate Class of 2020 Ceremony will not be ticketed. Undergraduate Class of 2020 Commencement Ceremony 10:30 a.m. | The First Baptist Church in America Members of the undergraduate Class of 2020 will assemble at the First Baptist Church in America for a unique ceremony complete with time-honored traditions of Commencement. President Christina H. Paxson will preside over the ceremony, including orations given by members of the Class of 2020, student performances and more. It is Brown tradition to hold Commencement in the Meeting House of the First Baptist Church in America. The Meeting House, completed in 1775, was built “for the Publick Worship of Almighty GOD, and also for holding Commencement in.” Central parts of the Brown Commencement ceremonies have been held here ever since. All guests and family members are invited to watch the ceremony from the College Green, where the event will be simulcast as space is limited inside the church. This event is for the undergraduate Class of 2020 and guests. The Procession will lead to the Class of 2020 undergraduate ceremony in the First Baptist Church in America. Graduate Class of 2020 Commencement Reception 11:15 a.m. (directly following the Graduate Ceremony ) | Pembroke Green Enjoy light snacks and drinks, speak with deans and staff from the Graduate School and celebrate your accomplishments. Bring your families, register to win some prizes and enjoy some time reconnecting with your fellow classmates. This event is for the graduate Class of 2020 and guests. Blueno Picnic for the Undergraduate Class of 2020 Noon to 2 p.m. | Pembroke Field Head on over to Pembroke Field following your Commencement ceremony for a special Class of 2020 Blueno-themed picnic lunch. Take a selfie with Blueno, catch up with your classmates and challenge your friends to lawn games and volleyball while enjoying some hot dogs and burgers. This event is for members of the undergraduate Class of 2020 only. Advance registration is required. This event is for the undergraduate Class of 2020. Advance registration is required. Gigs on the Grass - Undergraduate Class of 2020 Commencement Edition 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. | Ittleson Quad You've walked through the gates — now it's time to celebrate! Members of the undergraduate Class of 2020 and a guest are invited to reunite on Ittleson Quad green to celebrate your achievements and long-awaited return to campus. Catch up with your classmates over beer, wine and food from local food trucks while enjoying live entertainment from Class of 2020 bands and musicians. Tickets for members of the undergraduate Class of 2020 and one guest will be provided with registration. This event is for the undergraduate Class of 2020 and one guest. Advance registration is required. Sunday, May 29, 2022 Pre-Commencement Procession Breakfast 7 to 9 a.m. | Sharpe Refectory Get energized for the day with a complete hot breakfast buffet. Choose from some of your favorites as a student — cereal, pancakes, eggs, home fries, fruit, muffins, coffee, juice and more. One ticket for members of the undergraduate Class of 2020 will be provided with online registration. All guests may purchase tickets at the door. This event is open to all. Advance registration is required for members of the undergraduate Class of 2020. Commencement Procession 9:15 a.m. (line up), 9:30 a.m. (step off) | George Street (across from the College Green) Members of the undergraduate Class of 2020 will gather together as a class and join the tradition of the Commencement Procession — as alumni! The Procession is one of Brown’s oldest and greatest traditions, bringing together the entire Brown community. Traditionally, alumni who have returned for Reunion Weekend march down College Hill with their class to cheer on the graduating class as they pass through the Gates. The Procession is led by the Chief Marshal, a member of the 50th Reunion. All alumni are asked to gather on George Street across from the College Green to line up for the march. This event is for members of the undergraduate Class of 2020. Alumni who have returned for Reunion march with their classes. Once the last person is through the Van Wickle Gates, the procession inverts and continues down College Street, with each participant applauding the others. Medical School Class of 2020 and 2022 Ceremony 10:15 a.m. | First Unitarian Church The Warren Alpert Medical Class of 2020, returning to campus to celebrate their Commencement, will do so in a joint ceremony with the medical Class of 2022 on Sunday morning. The Warren Alpert Medical School Commencement for the graduating classes of 2020 and 2022 will be ticketed. Each student will receive four tickets. Tickets will be distributed to the students on Saturday, May 28, during the mandatory rehearsal. A livestream will also be available. Graduates should line up on Waterman Street for the Procession at 9:15 a.m. This event is for members of the Warren Alpert Medical School classes of 2020 and 2022 and ticketed guests. Brown University abides by public health guidance and health and safety protocols to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19. Event attendees, including visitors and guests, must comply with all University policies and protocols in place at the time of the event, including University policy regarding face masks and coverings (see the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page for the current policy for both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals). Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Overview Celebrate on Social For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Updates Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Weekend Overview for the Class 2020 Open details for Weekend Overview for the Class 2020 Bookmark this Page