Skip to Main Content Brown University Commencement for the Class of 2022 Search Menu Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream Search Commencement for the Class of 2022 Information for Graduating Members of the Class of 2022 Information for Graduating Members of the Class of 2022 Senior Class of 2022 Back to Top Graduation Deadlines Important graduation deadlines for the undergraduate Class of 2022 can be found on the Registrar's website. Undergraduates must complete an application to graduate and students with multiple concentrations must inform the Registrar of which ceremony they plan to attend. Regalia Regalia (cap and gown) should be worn for the Baccalaureate Service on Saturday and the Commencement ceremonies on Sunday. Commissioning students and those with military service have the option to wear formal military attire in place of the cap and gown if they so choose and if permitted according to their status with the military. Undergraduate students in the Class of 2022 who were unable to pick up their regalia during Grad Fair can purchase their keepsake regalia from the Brown Bookstore. More information regarding regalia is available on the Brown Bookstore website. Commencement Website Visit frequently and encourage family and guests to utilize the site and the BrownU app to plan their visit to campus. Information will be available on the BrownU app in April. During Commencement Weekend Line up for the Baccalaureate procession on Saturday at 1:30 p.m. All graduating seniors are encouraged to attend Baccalaureate. The lineup for the procession begins at 1:30 p.m. on Waterman Street by Faunce Arch. Encourage your family and guests to find comfortable seating on the College Green to view the procession and ceremony. Guests are not permitted on the grounds of the First Baptist Church. Line up for the Commencement day procession on Sunday promptly at 9 a.m. on Waterman Street by Faunce Arch. Encourage your family and guests to find comfortable seating on the College Green for the College and University ceremonies, which immediately follow the procession. Attend your departmental ceremony on Sunday All departmental ceremonies are held after the University ceremony concludes. A Guide for Graduating Seniors Back to Top https://www.youtube.com/embed/DYu2aeCzpHY A Guide for Graduating Seniors Get ready for Commencement and Reunion Weekend with this practical overview for graduating seniors about how to navigate the momentous celebration. Families and guests who want to learn more about the weekend can view the Understanding Commencement webinar and related presentation slides. Doctoral and Master's Graduates Back to Top Graduation Deadlines Important graduation deadlines can be found on the Registrar's website and Graduate School Commencement Page. Graduate students must complete an application to graduate and students receiving multiple degrees and concurrent students or must inform the Graduate School (gradschool-commencement@brown.edu) of which ceremony they plan to attend. Registration to attend the doctoral or master's ceremony is required and can be completed through Marching Order, please check the email you indicated on your Application to Graduate where you would like to receive Commencement communications. Regalia Regalia (cap or tam, gown and hood) should be worn for the Procession and Commencement ceremonies on Sunday. Commissioning students and those with military service have the option to wear formal military attire in place of the cap and gown if they so choose and if permitted according to their status with the military. More information regarding regalia is available on the Brown Bookstore website. Commencement Website Visit frequently and encourage family and guests to utilize the site and the BrownU app to plan their visit to campus. Information will be available on the BrownU app in April. Preparing for Commencement Weekend https://www.youtube.com/embed/9yOmyg1UN88 For Master's Graduates https://www.youtube.com/embed/yFK9hMxYTgw For Doctoral Graduates Virtual Slides View & download your virtual slide. During Commencement Weekend Doctoral students should plan to stop by the Graduate School on Friday or Saturday to pick up their Grad Card (name card), which will be used during the ceremony on Sunday. Graduates will scan the Grad Card to have their virtual slide background appear on the screen with their name and degree listed. They will then hand the card to the Dean to have their name read before crossing the stage to receive their diploma cover. Cards can be picked up in Horace Mann on Friday from noon to 6 p.m. and Saturday from 7:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Line up for the Commencement day procession on Sunday promptly at 9 a.m. on Waterman Street by Faunce Arch. Encourage your family and guests to find comfortable seating at the doctoral or master's ceremony, which immediately follow the procession. Questions? Students earning doctoral and master's degrees in 2022 can learn more about additional graduation requirements and deadlines on the Graduate School Commencement page. Questions about Commencement for graduate students should be sent to gradschool-commencement@brown.edu. Warren Alpert Medical School Graduates Back to Top M.D. Class of 2020 Graduates of the M.D. Class of 2020 are invited to participate in the Commencement ceremony and will be given four guest tickets. Please see the information below regarding regalia. If you missed the deadline to register, please email medschool-commencement@messages.brown.edu as soon as possible to let us know you will be attending. Regalia Regalia (cap or tam, gown and hood) should be worn for the Procession and Commencement ceremonies on Sunday. Commissioning students and those with military service have the option to wear formal military attire in place of the cap and gown if they so choose and if permitted according to their status with the military. More information regarding regalia is available on the Brown Bookstore website. Commencement Website Visit frequently and encourage family and guests to utilize this website and the BrownU app to plan their visit to campus. Information will be available on the BrownU app in April. During Commencement Weekend Saturday, May 28: There is a mandatory rehearsal for medical students participating in the ceremony at 10:30 a.m. Class of 2020 alumni who are participating in the ceremony must also attend the rehearsal. Each student will receive four tickets to the ceremony. Tickets will be distributed at rehearsal. Sunday, May 29: The lineup for the Commencement procession begins at 9 a.m on Waterman Street by Faunce Arch. Students will process down College Hill to the First Unitarian Church at one Benefit Street. Family and friends may go directly to the church. The Commencement ceremony begins at 10 a.m. Questions? Questions regarding graduation requirements should be directed to the medical school’s Office of Student Affairs. Questions about events should be directed to medschool-commencement@messages.brown.edu. Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Information for Graduating Members of the Class of 2022 Open details for Information for Graduating Members of the Class of 2022 Bookmark this Page