Skip to Main Content Brown University Commencement for the Class of 2022 Search Menu Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream Search Commencement for the Class of 2022 Speakers and Honorees The addresses you’ll hear at Commencement will inspire and move you. Breadcrumb Home Weekend Overview for the Class of 2022 Sub Navigation In This Section Speakers & Honorees Baccalaureate Speaker Senior Orators Graduate Student Speakers Honorary Degree Recipients Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations Speakers and Honorees The addresses you’ll hear at Commencement will inspire and move you. On the College Green on Commencement afternoon, two members of the senior class, selected by a faculty committee, deliver short orations. The Graduate Student Council selects student speakers for the Graduate School ceremonies. The medical school invites a speaker to address its graduating class in the First Unitarian Church. During Saturday's Baccalaureate ceremony, an honorary degree recipient will deliver the Baccalaureate keynote address. Baccalaureate Speaker Brown’s baccalaureate tradition derives from the wide range of religious, ethnic, geographic, linguistic and musical traditions present within the campus community. Senior Orators Since its beginning in 1769, Brown’s Commencement has always featured graduating seniors as the principal speakers. Graduate Student Speakers Graduate student speakers share narratives that reflect the experiences, training, and sense of purpose inherent in the pursuit of advanced study. Honorary Degree Recipients Each year, Brown bestows honorary degrees on a diverse group of scholars, artists and leaders recognized for exceptional achievement. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Speakers and Honorees Open details for Speakers and Honorees Bookmark this Page