Skip to Main Content Brown University Commencement for the Class of 2022 Search Menu Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream Search Commencement for the Class of 2022 Driving Directions for Commencement Weekend Breadcrumb Home Plan Your Visit Sub Navigation In This Section Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging Driving Directions for Commencement Weekend How to get here by car. The University is expecting an unprecedented number of people on campus for Commencement Weekend 2022, as we welcome back our Class of 2020 alumni and their families as well as our 2022 graduates. For this reason, parking spaces will be significantly limited, and guests should consider this when making plans. You should be prepared to walk a distance from your parking area, so make sure to wear comfortable shoes and provide plenty of time to arrive for events. You may want to consider using public transportation or arranging a ride share instead of driving to campus. Getting to Campus Directions to Brown University on Commencement Weekend Due to road closures for Commencement activities in downtown Providence the directions below are being provided to guide you to the University during our Commencement Weekend. These directions will guide you to the traffic pattern which will allow for easy drop off if necessary, and to the side of the campus not affected by the closures. Please note that navigation systems will most likely guide you into road closures so please keep this in mind. From the North: From Route 95 South stay right to Exit 20, Route 6 / Route 195 East. Take Exit 2 and turn Left onto India Street. Then turn right onto Gano Street North. Then turn Left onto Power Street. Then turn right onto Brown Street. From the South: From Route 95 North take Exit 19 East onto Route 195 East. Take Exit 2 and turn Left onto India Street. Then turn right onto Gano Street North. Then turn Left onto Power Street. Then turn right onto Brown Street. From the East: Take I-195 West to exit 2; onto South Main Street. At the traffic light turn right onto Wickenden Street. At the second traffic light on Wickenden Street turn left onto Brook Street. Then turn Left onto Power Street. Then turn right onto Brown Street. From the Northwest: Take 146 South. Continue onto Route 95 South and stay right to Exit 20, Route 6 / Route 195 East. Take Exit 2 and turn Left onto India Street. Then turn right onto Gano Street North. Then turn Left onto Power Street. Then turn right onto Brown Street. From the Route 6 East/Route 95 South Interchange: Take Route 95 South and stay right to Exit 20, Route 6 / Route 195 East. Take Exit 2 and turn Left onto India Street. Then turn right onto Gano Street North. Then turn Left onto Power Street. Then turn right onto Brown Street. From Rhode Island T.F. Green International Airport: For getting to campus from Rhode Island T.F. Green International Airport to Downtown Providence, check out the Rhode Island TF Green International Airport website for information on trains, buses, and more. From Boston: For getting to campus from Boston to Downtown Providence, trains are available on the MBTA (Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority) Commuter Rail Providence/Stoughton line or with Amtrak on the Acela Express or Northeast Regional trains. Buses between Boston and Providence are also available with Peter Pan. Getting Around Providence Rhode Island Public Transit Authority For getting around Providence and making your way to Brown’s campus, the Rhode Island Public Transit Authority (RIPTA) offers numerous bus routes. You can check out the routes and plan your trip online or download the Transit Tracker app on your smartphone. Walking Directions from Downtown Providence If you want to avoid the hassle of parking and save on car rental and parking fees, the walk from Downtown Providence to Brown’s campus only takes about 20 minutes. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Driving Directions for Commencement Weekend Open details for Driving Directions for Commencement Weekend Bookmark this Page