Skip to Main Content Brown University Commencement for the Class of 2022 Search Menu Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream Search Commencement for the Class of 2022 Frequently Asked Questions for the Class of 2022 Frequently Asked Questions for the Class of 2022 Learn more about plans for Commencement 2022. When will 2022 graduates celebrate their Commencement? Commencement for the Class of 2022 will be held from Friday, May 27 to Sunday, May 29, 2022. Please see the Weekend Overview for additional information. Do I need to apply to graduate? Yes, all students need to apply to graduate via Banner web. Visit the Office of the Registrar for important graduation deadlines. How can I purchase regalia? Undergraduate students in the Class of 2022 can purchase their keepsake regalia at Grad Fair on Wednesday, April 6 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the Kasper Multipurpose Room. 2022 Graduate and 2020 and 2022 Medical students can purchase their regalia from the Brown Bookstore Website by April 14. Regalia (cap and gown) should be worn for the Baccalaureate Service on Saturday and the Commencement ceremonies on Sunday. Commissioning students and those with military service have the option to wear formal military attire in place of the cap and gown if they so choose and if permitted according to their status with the military. Will guests be permitted to attend? Yes, we are excited to welcome families and guests to Commencement weekend. The University will follow public health guidance and protocols in place at that time, but we currently anticipate that families and guests will be able to attend. Are tickets required for graduation? The undergraduate ceremony for the Class of 2022 will not be ticketed. Doctoral and Master's Commencement Ceremonies for the graduate Class of 2022 will be ticketed. The exact number of tickets available per student and per location will be announced later this spring. The Warren Alpert Medical School Commencement for the graduating classes of 2020 and 2022 will be ticketed. Each student will receive four tickets. Tickets will be distributed to the students on Saturday, May 28, during the mandatory rehearsal. How can I purchase Brown Commencement memorabilia? Class rings, announcements and diploma frames can all be purchased from the Brown Bookstore. Do mid-year completers participate in May Commencement? Undergraduate mid-year completers (21.5 and 22.5) are welcome to "walk" in either the May ceremony preceding or following their December completion. All mid-year completers should check in with their concentration directors to learn about their concentrations' specific guidelines. Diplomas are issued the May following the December completion. How will I receive my diploma? All baccalaureate degrees will be conferred at the College Ceremony. Undergraduate degree recipients will be individually recognized at their departmental ceremonies. Master's and Doctoral degrees will be conferred and recognized at their respective ceremonies. All degree recipients, except for Medical degree candidates, will receive their diploma by mail to the address provided on the Application to Graduate. We anticipate delivery from mid-June to mid-July, depending on location. Medical recipients will receive their printed diploma during their ceremony on Commencement day. Please note that empty diploma covers will be presented to graduating students in their respective ceremonies on Commencement day. Where can I learn more about Reunion? Brown's alumni Reunion takes place during the same weekend as Commencement. More information will be posted on the Reunion Website. Reunion student staff will be available throughout the weekend to offer assistance with event locations, directions on campus and in Providence, and any additional questions you may have. How can yearbooks be purchased? Students and parents can order their yearbooks online. Any questions regarding yearbooks can be directed to liber@brown.edu.information. What are the current COVID-19 protocols? Throughout your participation in the weekend’s activities, please visit the Healthy Brown website for the most up-to-date information for graduates, families and guests participating in Commencement and Reunion. Whom do I contact if I have any questions? Email commencement@brown.edu with any questions. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Frequently Asked Questions for the Class of 2022 Open details for Frequently Asked Questions for the Class of 2022 Bookmark this Page