Skip to Main Content Brown University Commencement for the Class of 2022 Search Menu Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream Search Commencement for the Class of 2022 Graduate Student Speakers Graduate student speakers share narratives that reflect the experiences, training, and sense of purpose inherent in the pursuit of advanced study. Breadcrumb Home Weekend Overview for the Class of 2022 Speakers and Honorees Sub Navigation In This Section Baccalaureate Speaker Senior Orators Graduate Student Speakers Honorary Degree Recipients Graduate Student Speakers Graduate student speakers share narratives that reflect the experiences, training, and sense of purpose inherent in the pursuit of advanced study. As Brown celebrates Commencement 2022, Jiuyang Bai and Amelia Spalter will address their peers in separate Ph.D. and master’s ceremonies on College Hill on Sunday, May 29. Read more about the 2022 Graduate School Speakers How the speakers are chosen Candidates self-nominate and are asked to submit an excerpt of their proposed speeches. Nominees are strongly encouraged to solicit feedback from faculty, Writing Center staff, and others before submitting their applications. The Graduate Student Council's Nominations Committee reviews all submissions and conducts 10-15 interviews, hearing nominees deliver an excerpt of their speeches. The Nominations Committee selects three finalists each for the master's and doctoral ceremonies. Finalists are asked to deliver a similar excerpt of their speeches before the Graduate Student Council general body during the April meeting. All voting members of Graduate Student Council then select the two candidates, one master's and one PhD, who will serve as Commencement speakers. Questions should be directed to gsc_nominations@brown.edu. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Student Speakers Open details for Graduate Student Speakers Bookmark this Page