Skip to Main Content Brown University Commencement for the Class of 2022 Search Menu Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream Search Commencement for the Class of 2022 Accessibility Accommodations for Commencement Weekend Breadcrumb Home Plan Your Visit Sub Navigation In This Section Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Wheelchair Rentals Parking Lodging Accessibility Accommodations for Commencement Weekend Information on accessibility and disability related needs. For a map indicating accessibility routes and entrances to buildings Please download Brown's accessibility map. To request a hard copy email Student Accessibility Services (SAS) or call 401-863-9588. Hard copies will be available at the Welcome Kiosk on the College Green. Download Brown's accessibility map Email SAS for a hard copy If your guests have disability related needs that are not addressed below, please contact Student Accessibility Services (SAS) at 401-863-9588. Requests for interpreting or wheelchair access for departmental programs, forums or other events should be made with as much notice as possible but no later than May 1. After this date, SAS will continue to process requests, but cannot guarantee accommodations can be made. Shuttle Access Shuttle (on-campus rides for those with mobility concerns) Student Accessibility Services (SAS) provides a shuttle for people with disabilities or medical conditions to locations throughout the campus during Commencement/Reunion Weekend. The shuttle is wheelchair accessible. Please indicate if wheelchair access is needed when you call. Rides should be scheduled in advance if possible. Due to heavy ridership, Sunday rides must be planned in advance. Please note: wait times may be longer than usual during the time of the University Ceremony. To reach the SAS shuttle dispatcher call 401-225-9572. The Access Shuttle operates during the following time frames during Commencement & Reunion Weekend: Friday: 11 a.m.–3 a.m.; Saturday: 7 a.m.–1 a.m.; Sunday: 6 a.m.–6 p.m. Handicapped Parking If you have a state-issued hang tag, you are welcome to park in pre-marked handicapped spots on campus, but we cannot guarantee their availability. (The tag can be from any state.) View a map of handicapped parking spots on campus to identify potential options. Two handicapped designated lots (lots 76 and 44) are available for those who completed the handicapped parking form. Please note that handicapped spaces are limited and are available on a first-come, first-served basis. This form is now closed. Passes will be mailed out in May. Drop Off Passes are recommended for individuals who will be transporting guests with mobility concerns who are able to navigate the campus themselves. These passes allow individuals to drop guests off near the College Green on Commencement Day. Drivers then park their vehicle on campus or in the local area. This pass does not provide any reserved parking for the holder. Learn more in the Drop Off Passes section below, which provides a link to download and print the pass. Student Accessibility Services (SAS) provides a shuttle service for Brown community members, alumni, and visitors with disabilities or medical conditions that impact mobility. Learn more about the Access shuttle service. If you have questions or need additional information about parking, please contact the Office of Transportation & Parking Services at (401) 863-3157. Accessible Restrooms Throughout the weekend, accessible portable restrooms will be available wherever portable restrooms are provided. In addition, accessible restrooms are located in buildings around the main green. The lower level of Sayles Hall has an accessible restroom, down the hall and to the left from the accessible entrance. Accessible restrooms are also available on the 2nd floor of the Campus Center (Faunce House) and on the lower level in Salomon. Elevators are available in both those buildings. Wheelchair Rentals To arrange for a wheelchair or scooter rental, here is a listing of local local wheelchair rentals. Vendors will deliver and pick up right from the campus. Brown University does not provide wheelchairs. Wheelchair Seating Options During Baccalaureate, the College Ceremony, the University Ceremony, Doctoral Convocation, and Master's Convocation, usher staff will be available to assist guests in finding seating. Seating is not permitted in aisles or walkways, but ushers will assist guests in wheelchairs in finding seating and/or removing chairs from the end of rows as space allows. Please keep in mind, all seating is on a first come, first served basis. Guests Who Are Deaf or Hard of Hearing For guests who may have a hearing impairment, captioning will be available on both large screens for Baccalaureate, the College Ceremony, and the University Ceremony. Assisted listening devices will also be available for check out on the Main Green at the sound booth. Alternative Viewing Options Navigating campus with the anticipated high volume of guests and cars can be challenging. In addition, weather can also be unpredictable. As such, we offer two options to view the ceremonies remotely – online and in indoor viewing location(s) on campus. Baccalaureate, the Doctoral Ceremony, Procession, and both the College and University ceremonies will be streamed live on the internet via Brown's Live Webcast page. On campus, Baccalaureate, the Procession, and both the College and University ceremonies will be simulcast in Salomon Center for Teaching (the accessible entrance is to the left of the front door) and Sayles Hall (the accessible entrance is on the right side of the building and after entering, take the elevator to the first floor). Drop Off Passes On Commencement day, the majority of streets near the College Green are closed due to the procession and line up. Drop Off Passes allow individuals to drop guests off near the College Green on Commencement Day. Drivers then park their vehicle on campus or in the local area. This pass does not provide any reserved parking for the holder. These passes are only recommended for individuals who will be transporting guests with mobility concerns who are able to navigate the campus themselves. To utilize this service, download our drop off pass and place it on the dashboard of the vehicle wishing to drop guests off so that police officers can direct the car into the drop off queue. If you are unable to print a pass, you may pick one up from the Welcome Kiosk on the College Green on Saturday or Sunday. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Accessibility Accommodations for Commencement Weekend Open details for Accessibility Accommodations for Commencement Weekend Bookmark this Page