Skip to Main Content Brown University Commencement for the Class of 2022 Search Menu Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream Search Commencement for the Class of 2022 Baccalaureate Brown University’s Baccalaureate Service embraces lively expressions of thanksgiving, harmony and rhythm and includes music, dance and spiritual readings. Breadcrumb Home Weekend Overview for the Class of 2022 Sub Navigation In This Section Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations Baccalaureate Brown University’s Baccalaureate Service embraces lively expressions of thanksgiving, harmony and rhythm and includes music, dance and spiritual readings. Saturday, May 28, 2022 The Baccalaureate incorporates the many spiritual and cultural traditions of the Brown community. This multifaith service for undergraduates begins with the lion dance, a Chinese tradition in which the lion banishes evil spirits and brings good luck. The service includes rituals, readings and prayers from Islam, Judaism, Hinduism, Christianity, Buddhism and animist traditions, as well as choral and instrumental music, the Chinese lion dance, poetry, dance and Taiko and Senegalese drumming. The service starts off on the College Green with a procession that leads seniors from campus to the First Baptist Church of America. Only undergraduates will be allowed into the church as there is limited seating capacity inside. All guests and family members are invited to watch the service from the College Green, where the event will be simulcast. In addition, Salomon will be open to guests who wish to view simulcast of the service indoors. Speaker One of the highlights of the Baccalaureate Service is the keynote address. Schedule 1:00 p.m. Seating on the College Green opens to guests and families (ushers will be available to distribute programs at this time) 1:30 p.m. Seniors line up on Waterman Street in graduation regalia (Tassels go on the right) 1:45 p.m. Procession of graduates goes through the College Green, down Waterman to North Main Street and into the front doors of the First Baptist Church of America 2:30 p.m. Baccalaureate Service begins (approximate time) 4:00 p.m. Service ends (approximate time) Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Baccalaureate Open details for Baccalaureate Bookmark this Page