Skip to Main Content Brown University Commencement for the Class of 2022 Search Menu Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream Search Commencement for the Class of 2022 University Ceremony President Christina H. Paxson presides over this main event, where all graduates convene for the symbolic conferring of degrees. Sub Navigation In This Section Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations Sub Navigation In This Section Weekend Overview University Ceremony President Christina H. Paxson presides over this main event, where all graduates convene for the symbolic conferring of degrees. Sunday, May 29, 2022 1:15 P.M. (Estimate) All degree recipients unite on the College Green for the University Ceremony. This ceremony begins with the senior orations followed by the conferring of honorary degrees. The president then bestows symbolic degrees on representatives of each category of degree. A benediction concludes the ceremony. Departmental Ceremonies Directly following the University Ceremony separate departmental ceremonies are conducted by department chairs. Each ceremony is attended by the faculty of the department, the degree recipients, and their families and guests. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search University Ceremony Open details for University Ceremony Bookmark this Page