Skip to Main Content Brown University Commencement for the Class of 2022 Search Menu Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream Search Commencement for the Class of 2022 Class of 2022 Livestream Watch Brown's 254th Commencement live, May 28 and 29. Class of 2022 Livestream Watch Brown's 254th Commencement live, May 28 and 29. Saturday, May 28 Back to Top The Baccalaureate Service Livestream begins 2:25 p.m. EDT Baccalaureate is a multifaith ceremony for undergraduates that incorporates the many spiritual and cultural traditions of the Brown community. The service takes place at the First Baptist Church in America. Watch The Baccalaureate Service Sunday, May 29 Back to Top The College and University Ceremonies Livestream begins 9:30 a.m. EDT Following the Procession, the undergraduate Class of 2022 assembles on the lawn of the First Baptist Church in America for the official conferral of undergraduate degrees at the College ceremony. After the ceremony ends, the seniors walk up the hill and join graduate and medical students for the University ceremony, where President Christina H. Paxson presides, senior orations are delivered and honorary and symbolic degrees are awarded. Watch the College & University Ceremonies The Graduate School Doctoral Ceremony Livestream begins 9:30 a.m. EDT The Class of 2022 Doctoral Commencement Ceremony takes place on Pembroke Field and is led by Dean of the Graduate School Andrew G. Campbell. The program includes an invocation, welcome, student speaker, awards, the awarding of degrees and a benediction. The Commencement Procession precedes the ceremony. Watch the Doctoral Ceremony The Graduate School Master’s Ceremony Livestream begins 9:30 a.m. EDT The Class of 2022 Master’s Commencement Ceremony takes place in Meehan Auditorium and is led by Dean of the School of Professional Studies Leah VanWey. The program includes an invocation, welcome, student awards, awarding of degrees and a benediction. The Commencement Procession precedes the ceremony. Watch the Master's Ceremony The Warren Alpert Medical School Ceremony Livestream begins 10:15 a.m. EDT Members of the Warren Alpert Medical School Class of 2022 join members of the Class of 2020, returning to campus to celebrate their Commencement, in a combined ceremony at First Unitarian Church. The program is led by Dean of Medicine and Biological Sciences Mukesh K. Jain and includes an invocation, welcome, student speakers, music, the reading of the Physician’s Oath, the awarding of degrees and a benediction. Watch the Medical School Ceremony Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Class of 2022 Livestream Open details for Class of 2022 Livestream Bookmark this Page