Skip to Main Content Brown University Commencement for the Class of 2022 Search Menu Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream Search Commencement for the Class of 2022 Weekend Overview for the Class of 2022 Graduates, alumni and families assemble on College Hill for an immersive and exhilarating experience packed with daylong events. Weekend Overview for the Class of 2022 Graduates, alumni and families assemble on College Hill for an immersive and exhilarating experience packed with daylong events. Friday, May 27, 2022 Campus Dance 9 P.M. | The College Green One of Brown's best-loved Reunion and Commencement traditions, Campus Dance brings people to Brown to dance the night away under a sky lit with over 600 paper lanterns on the College Green. The evening joins together graduating seniors and their families, alumni of all ages and Brown faculty and staff. Everyone enjoys meeting old classmates, seeing favorite professors and being with friends. All family members and guests are welcome to attend. Tickets are required for all attendees and can be purchased through the Campus Dance website. visit the campus dance website Campus Dance brings people to Brown to dance the night away Saturday, May 28, 2022 Weekend Forums Various Times and Locations Led by faculty, alumni and distinguished guests, these academic and topical colloquia are an integral part of Commencement and Reunion Weekend. All family members and guests are welcome to attend and forums do not require a ticket. Seating is available on a first-come, first-served basis. Explore the Forums Baccalaureate 2:30 P.M. | First Baptist Church in America Baccalaureate is a multifaith ceremony for undergraduates that incorporates the many spiritual and cultural traditions of the Brown community. The ceremony starts on the College Green with a procession that leads graduates to the First Baptist Church in America. Due to limited seating capacity, only seniors will be allowed into the church. All guests and family members are invited to watch the ceremony from the College Green, where the event will be simulcast. Seniors should line up on Waterman Street by Faunce Arch at 1:30 p.m. for the procession to the First Baptist Church in America. Learn more about Baccalaureate Baccalaureate is a multifaith ceremony for undergraduates that incorporates the many spiritual and cultural traditions of the Brown community. Graduate Class of 2022 Commencement Reception 3 P.M. | Ruth J. Simmons Quadrangle The graduate Class of 2022 and their guests are invited to enjoy light snacks and drinks, register to win prizes, speak with deans and staff from the Graduate School, and celebrate the accomplishments of graduates while they enjoy some time with fellow students before going their separate ways. Seniors should line up on Waterman Street by Faunce Arch at 1:30 p.m. for the procession to the First Baptist Church in America. Learn more about Baccalaureate Sunday, May 29, 2022 Procession 9:30 A.M. step-off | Line up on Waterman Street by Faunce Arch at 9 A.M. (Medical and Graduate students) and 9:15 A.M. (seniors) The Commencement procession is a joyous celebration. Candidates for degrees march across the College Green and through the Van Wickle Gates, which are opened only twice each year. Undergraduate alumni who have returned for Reunion march with their classes. Once the last person is through the Van Wickle Gates, the procession inverts and undergraduates continue down College Street with each participant applauding the others; graduate and medical students also process to their respective ceremony locations, with participants and spectators applauding the graduates. Parents, relatives and friends of seniors are strongly advised to find seats on the College Green during the opening procession, where they can view the live simulcast of the procession. The procession is made up of approximately 6,000 participants that line the route, making photography and lines of sight challenging for guests. Learn More about the Procession During procession, candidates for degrees march across the College Green and through the Van Wickle Gates. Warren Alpert Medical School Commencement Ceremony 10 A.M. (Estimated) | First Unitarian Church The medical school adjourns to the First Unitarian Church on Benefit and Benevolent streets for their ceremony. Graduate School Doctoral Ceremony and Master's Ceremony 10:30 A.M. (Estimated) | Pembroke Field (Doctoral Ceremony) and Meehan Auditorium (Master's Ceremony) The Graduate School continues its procession to two locations. The Doctoral Ceremony will take place on Pembroke Field and the Master's Ceremony will take place in Meehan Auditorium. The procession and Doctoral and Master's Ceremonies will be available via livestream. College Ceremony 12:15 P.M. (Estimated) | The First Baptist Church in America The senior class assembles on the lawn of the First Baptist Church in America for the official conferral of undergraduate degrees at the College ceremony. After the ceremony ends, the seniors walk up the hill and take seats on the College Green for the University ceremony. Family and friends should remain on the College Green during the College ceremony, where large screens offer a continuous view of the proceedings. Undergraduate, graduate and medical students unite on the College Green for the University ceremony. University Ceremony 1:15 P.M. (Estimated) | The College Green Undergraduate, graduate and medical students unite on the College Green for this ceremony. President Christina H. Paxson presides, senior orations are delivered and honorary and symbolic degrees are awarded. Learn more about the University Ceremony Departmental Ceremonies 2:45 - 4:45 P.M. (Estimated) | Various Locations All degrees are symbolically conferred during the University ceremony. Separate departmental ceremonies for each academic department follow the main ceremony and provide a more intimate atmosphere for families and graduates. Many departments also welcome graduate students. View Departmental Ceremony Locations Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Weekend Overview for the Class of 2022 Open details for Weekend Overview for the Class of 2022 Bookmark this Page