Skip to Main Content Brown University Commencement for the Class of 2022 Search Menu Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream Search Commencement for the Class of 2022 Procession The Commencement Procession, one of Brown's greatest and oldest traditions, brings together the entire Brown community in a festive and joyous celebration. Sub Navigation In This Section Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations Sub Navigation In This Section Weekend Overview Procession The Commencement Procession, one of Brown's greatest and oldest traditions, brings together the entire Brown community in a festive and joyous celebration. Sunday, May 29, 2022 9:30 A.M. The Commencement Procession steps off through Faunce Arch promptly at 9:30 a.m. and is led by the chief marshal, a member of the 50th reunion class. All graduating students march through the Van Wickle Gates, which swing open twice a year: inward to admit incoming students during Convocation and outward to discharge the new graduates during Commencement. Alumni who have returned for Reunion march with their classes. Once the last person is through the Van Wickle Gates, the procession inverts and continues down College Street, with each participant applauding the others. Where to Watch the Procession Parents, relatives and friends of seniors are strongly advised to find seats on the College Green during the opening procession, where they can view the live simulcast of the procession. The procession is made up of approximately 7,000 participants that line the route, making photography and lines of sight challenging for guests. Procession Information For... Undergraduate Students Undergraduate students are asked to report to Waterman Street by 9:15 a.m. Lineup begins at Faunce Arch, facing east, on the south side of Waterman Street. All seniors should arrive to Waterman in academic regalia. Undergraduate students will process through the Van Wickle Gates, down College and Benefit streets to the grounds of First Baptist Meeting House for the College Ceremony (note: only graduates are permitted at the church, guests are asked to view the ceremony from the College Green). Undergraduate students will then partake in a return procession from the church to College Green prior to the University Ceremony. Graduate Students Graduate students are asked to report to Waterman Street by 9 a.m. Lineup begins at Faunce Arch, facing west, on the north side of Waterman Street. Academic regalia is required to participate in the procession and the Graduate School ceremonies. Graduate students will march through the Van Wickle Gates and take an immediate right onto Prospect Street and right again on Waterman Street. They will take a left onto Thayer Street and process to Meehan Auditorium (master's students) or Pembroke Field (doctoral students) for their ceremonies. Medical Students Warren Alpert Medical school graduates will line up by 9 a.m. in front of Faunce Arch on Waterman Street, facing west, on the north side of Waterman Street. The medical school division will step off at approximately 9:30 a.m. The medical school procession marches through the Van Wickle Gates, down to First Unitarian Church, where the medical school ceremony and awarding of degrees take place. Guests and Family All guests and family members are strongly encouraged to view the live simulcast of the procession from the seating available on the College Green and at the doctoral and master's ceremony sites. The procession is made up of approximately 7,000 participants who line the route, making photography very difficult. In addition, street closures and barricades around the procession route will make lines of sight challenging for guests. Families are welcome to return to the Van Wickle Gates following the ceremonies to take photographs, which will remain open until 6 p.m. on Monday. Alumni Alumni are asked to assemble at their assigned class locations by 9:15 a.m. The most recent alumni will line up on George Street and the older alumni classes will line up on the College Green. Medical school alumni will line up on Waterman near Faunce Arch. Faculty Faculty who wish to partake in the procession and view the University Ceremony are asked to report to Brown Street, near Fones Alley no later than 9:15 a.m. on Sunday. Please approach the lineup from Angell St. Faculty will line up behind the senior administration. Faculty will process through the Van Wickle Gates, down College and Benefit streets, and return to reserved seating on the College Green via Waterman Street to view the College and University ceremonies. Faculty who wish to process with the Graduate School and attend the doctoral or master's ceremonies are asked to report to Waterman Street in front of Page-Robinson Hall no later than 9:15 a.m. Faculty who wish to process with the medical school and attend the Warren Alpert Medical School ceremony are asked to report to Faunce Arch on Waterman Street no later than 9 a.m. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Overview Speakers & Honorees Celebrate on Social Departmental Ceremony Locations For Graduates Plan Your Visit Driving Directions Accessibility Accommodations Parking Lodging FAQ Schedule Friday, May 27th Saturday, May 28th Sunday, May 29th Forums Livestream This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Procession Open details for Procession Bookmark this Page