Jump to navigation Google Tag Manager Home About Events Programs Clubs Members Volunteers Our Stories Resources State Fair Back to top Back to top Home Be Part of the Family 4-H is the place where you belong and are part of the family. Find a Club Events Experience more! 4-H is a never-ending adventure of new places and new people. Travel. Explore. Discover. Imagine the possibilities. Clubs You'll never feel more at home than at your 4-H club. Wherever you live, there’s a 4-H program where you can explore new things, meet new friends, and change the world. Find your place in 4-H. Projects 4-H makes learning fun! You pick your adventure. There are caring adults ready to help you explore and grow. Nothing is too hard in 4-H. Programs Discover ways you can save the world. Feed the hungry. Protect the environment. Speak up for others. Change the world as you change yourself. Producing Compassionate Youth 4-H members are four times more likely to contribute to their communities. See 4-H members give thanks for and how they are making a difference. Give thanks EmpoweringYouth for Success Whether you're headed to college, starting your career, or creating your own business, Illinois 4-H gives you the skills to be successful. Prepare for college BUILD A BETTER WORLD Illinois 4-H prepares youth to solve Illinois' problems by producing the leaders, innovators, entrepreneurs, stewards, and builders we need. 4-H builds good leaders by giving them safe environments to practice all the skills needed to be successful leaders. Illinois 4-H knows that our very lives are inseparable from the health of our planet and work daily to save the world for this and future generations. 4-H is helping youth understand where their food comes from, inspiring them to pursue interests in agriculture, and creating opportunities for them to lead change as they advocate for more food-secure communities. Illinois 4-H is increasing its efforts to prepare youth with skills needed in the workforce, inspiring a new generation of entrepreneurs and channeling youth to college experiences and mentors who can guide them towards a productive path. 4H loop No audio Video of 4H loop No audio WATCH OUR STORY Be Informed. Ask a Question.Send an Email Contact Us 801 N. Country Fair Drive, Suite E, Champaign, IL 61821 (217) 333-0910 (217) 333-9287 Illinois4H@illinois.edu Share Your 4-H Story Register as a 4-H Alum Donate University of Illinois Extension | University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign | College of ACES © 2022 University of Illinois Board of Trustees | Privacy | EEO | Login Search form Search this site