Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Home Search Menu Home › Events › Full Event Schedule Full Event Schedule Wednesday, June 1 Performance of Sorin: A Notre Dame Story A Taste of South Bend on the Hesburgh Library Quad Wine glasses available at the private shopping experience Who Are We? Iconic Women Artists in the Collection 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM, Snite Museum of Art Enjoy a specially designed drop-in tour of many of the masterworks by women artists on view. With origins that date to 1875, the collections at the University are among the oldest and most esteemed academic art collections in the nation. Paintings and sculptures by women artists have long played a major role. Explore these in a personal way with a self-guided tour at your leisure. Ask for a free guide at the welcome desk. Check-In Noon - 9:00 PM, Eck Visitors Center Required check-in for Golden is Thy Fame and Reunion will be available from Noon - 9:00 PM on Wednesday, June 1 (additional check-in hours are available on Thursday, June 2). Check-in at the Eck Visitors Center to obtain your credentials and keys for on-campus housing (for those staying in dorms). The first 1,000 alumnae registrants will receive a special gift! This will also serve as Reunion Headquarters for the duration of the weekend should you have any questions or need assistance while on campus. Your credential will be required for entry into events. Featured Event A Taste of South Bend 6:00 PM - 9:00 PM, Hesburgh Library Lawn Join us for a fun and festive welcome reception that will feature food and refreshments prepared by South Bend area women restaurateurs. Learn more Private Shopping Experience 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM, Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Shop our special Golden is Thy Fame Collection, exclusive to the bookstore. We will also have opportunities to personalize select items available for purchase, such as jewelry, with your graduation year, initials, and more! Featured Event Sorin: A Notre Dame Story 9:00 PM - 10:15 PM, Washington Hall Sorin: A Notre Dame Story is a one-person play about the dawn of the University of Notre Dame as told by the intrepid Holy Cross priest who founded it, Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C. No registration is required. Tickets will be available at the door of Washington Hall for the first 500 people to arrive. Learn more Featured Event Refreshment Tent 9:00 PM - Midnight, DeBartolo Quad End your evening by reconnecting with old and new friends in the DeBartolo Quad refreshment tent. Thursday night’s live entertainment will be provided by The 1985 Band! Learn more Thursday, June 2 Performance by Amy Grant at the Golden Gala Dinner and Program A Conversation with Judge Ann Claire Williams (ret.) JD '75. Hosted by Notre Dame Law School Dean G. Marcus Cole Anne Thompson '79 to moderate Care for Our Common Home: A Conversation about Environmental Research and Teaching across the Disciplines Guided Campus Walk 6:30 AM, Meet at the north tunnel, Notre Dame Stadium Join us for a morning walk across campus, passing by Notre Dame landmarks both new and old. We'll make a stop at the Grotto, and end at the Morris Inn. Anticipated walking route is 2 miles; 45 minutes in duration. Yoga in the Stadium 6:30 AM, Notre Dame Stadium Start your 'Golden is Thy Fame' celebration day by participating in a yoga class inside Notre Dame Stadium. RecSports instructor, Kimmi, will lead us through a Vinyasa Flow style in which poses are strung together to form a sequence with the breath always being used to connect the movements. It promises to be a spectacular way to begin your day! Bring your water bottle. Yoga mats will be provided. Flag Raising 7:30 AM, South Quad Flagpole Meet at the flagpole on South Quad as we begin the day by honoring those who serve our nation in the armed forces. All are welcome, and we extend a special invitation to veterans, current service members, and their loved ones. Check-In 8:00 AM - 7:00 PM, Eck Visitors Center Required check-in for Golden is Thy Fame and Reunion will be available from 8:00 AM - 7:00 PM on Thursday, June 2. Check-in at the Eck Visitors Center to obtain your credentials and keys for on-campus housing (for those staying in dorms). The first 1,000 alumnae registrants will receive a special gift! This will also serve as Reunion Headquarters for the duration of the weekend should you have any questions or need assistance while on campus. Your credential will be required for entry into events. Featured Event Welcome Breakfast 8:00 AM, Dahnke Ballroom, Duncan Student Center Enjoy breakfast in the Dahnke Ballroom and Rasmus Club of the Duncan Student Center, with great views of Notre Dame Stadium. University President Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., and other University leaders will offer words of official welcome. Learn more Group Photo on the Field 9:00 AM, Notre Dame Stadium To capture this historic celebration for future generations, all participants in Golden is Thy Fame are invited to gather on the field in Notre Dame Stadium for a group photo. Don't miss it! (Taking a group photo on the field is a cherished Welcome Weekend tradition these days for incoming first-year classes.) Featured Event Care for Our Common Home: A Conversation About Environmental Research and Teaching Across the Disciplines 10:00 AM - 10:50 AM, McKenna Hall Moderated by Anne Thompson ‘79, University Trustee and NBC News Chief Environmental Affairs Correspondent Faculty panelists Jennifer Tank, Peter Burns, Ellis Adjei Adams, and Jessica McManus Warnell will share how, inspired by Pope Francis’s encyclical Laudato Si’, they are advancing the care of our earth through groundbreaking research and teaching. Learn more Featured Event The Economics of Baby Booms and Busts 10:00 AM - 10:50 AM, McKenna Hall Presented by Professor Kasey Buckles From the mid-20th century baby boom to the recent pandemic baby bust, changes in infertility can have large and far-reaching consequences. Join Professor Kasey Buckles for a discussion of how economic factors affect people's fertility decisions, why birth rates are declining, and what this trend means for the future of labor, education, and policy in the United States. Learn more Throwback Thursday: Insights into Developing Objects in the Rearview Mirror 10:00 AM - 10:50 AM, McKenna Hall Presented by Debi Dell, President of ND Class of 1976 and author of Objects in the Rearview Mirror and Darlene (Palma) Connelly, Vice President of ND Class of 1977 and editor of Objects in the Rearview Mirror Objects in the Rearview Mirror is a social history of Notre Dame's early coeducation journey. Ever wonder if your college memories of Notre Dame "going coed" were unique? Ever question how others felt the impact on their personal and career lives of those first five years of integrating female undergraduates? Come join us as we share our robust approach to capturing the stories—both good and bad—that bond us together as loyal daughters (and sons - they were here first) of Notre Dame. College of Engineering Alumni Reception Celebrating 50 Years of Undergraduate Women 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM, Stinson-Remick Atrium Open to all College of Engineering alumni (male and female), this reception will feature remarks by Notre Dame College of Engineering Dean Patricia Culligan, celebrating 50 years of undergraduate women. Refreshments will be served. Who Are We? Iconic Women Artists in the Collection 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM, Snite Museum of Art Enjoy a specially designed drop-in tour of many of the masterworks by women artists on view. With origins that date to 1875, the collections at the University are among the oldest and most esteemed academic art collections in the nation. Paintings and sculptures by women artists have long played a major role. Explore these in a personal way with a self-guided tour at your leisure. Ask for a free guide at the welcome desk. Featured Event A Conversation with Female Leaders in College and Professional Sports 11:00 AM - 11:50 AM, Smith Ballroom, Morris Inn Moderated by Muffet McGraw, Former Head Coach, Notre Dame Women's Basketball and Current Athletics Advisor Hear from four Notre Dame alumnae who have distinguished themselves as leaders in both college and professional sports. Joining the panel will be Jill Bodensteiner '92, MBA '08, Nina King '00, Kate Markgraf '98, and Ruth Riley Hunter '01, MBA '16. Learn more Women Mentoring Women: Book Highlights and Workshop 11:00 AM - 11:50 AM, McKenna Hall Presented by Michelle Renaldo Ferguson '80 Women Mentoring Women addresses a primary issue that author Michelle Renaldo Ferguson believes holds women back: lack of mentorship. High-level leaders have the knowledge and expertise to assist and train lower-level professionals in business to prepare them to advance in their careers. While education plays a role in helping women land a job, understanding the business culture helps them climb the ladder of success. Featured Event ND Alumnae Fighting to End Poverty 11:00 AM - 11:50 AM, McKenna Hall Presented by Katie Kuka '98, Mary Kate Batistich '12, Catherine Lawlor '21, and Jill Pentimonti '99 of the Wilson Sheehan Lab for Economic Opportunities (LEO) Join four graduates who will discuss their formation at Notre Dame, the impact of the Notre Dame mission on their career paths, and the work they do at LEO to reduce poverty and improve lives through evidence-based programs and policies. Learn more Imaginative Prayer 11:00 AM - 11:50 AM, Malloy Hall Chapel (Our Lady Seat of Wisdom) Led by Stacey Stough Noem '98, MDiv '05 Consider taking a moment to stop and reflect. Imaginative prayer is a way of meeting Jesus by using our imagination to enter a Gospel story. Join Stacey Stough Noem, a member of the Theology department faculty, in guided imaginative prayer. All are welcome. No previous experience is necessary. Featured Event A Conversation with Trailblazer and Leader Judge Ann Claire Williams (Ret.) JD '75 Noon - 12:50 PM, McKenna Hall Hosted by Notre Dame Law School's Joseph A. Matson Dean and Professor of Law G. Marcus Cole Hear the inspiring story of a Notre Dame alumna's distinguished career—a journey of many "firsts," including her appointment as the first judge of color to serve on the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals and only the third woman of color on any U.S. Court of Appeals. Learn more Lunch 11:00 AM - 2:00 PM Lunch in the South Dining Hall or the Grab and Go option is included as part of your registration for Golden is Thy Fame, with your all-access credentials. Campus retail establishments will also be open if you wish to purchase lunch. Featured Event Notre Dame Family Wine Tasting Workshop 1:00 PM - 1:45 PM, Morris Inn An exclusive Notre Dame Family Wines tasting event featuring two of our very own alumni vintners. Guests will be able to sample a Spottswoode Sauvignon Blanc and J Pinot Noir, while learning more about the wineries, vintners, and their Notre Dame stories. The event is open to 75 guests on a first-come, first-served basis. Learn more Featured Event Panel Discussion: In Their Own Words 1:15 PM - 2:05 PM, Smith Ballroom, Morris Inn Moderated by Kelley Tuthill '92 A conversation highlighting the unique joys and challenges Notre Dame students experienced during the earliest years of coeducation. Join us to hear the stories of these pioneering women and men. The panelists are Betsy Kall Brosnan '76, Catherine Ghiglieri '74, Augie Grace '76, and Jack Leicht '74. This event is sponsored by ND Women Connect and ND Senior Alumni. Learn more Featured Event The Neuroscience of Being Your Best Self: What Good Sleep, Moderate Stress, and Positive Emotion Can Teach Us about Leading (and Living) Well 1:30 PM - 2:20 PM, McKenna Hall Presented by Professor Jessica Payne The neuroscience of sleep, stress, and emotion play a key role in performance and well-being. Dr. Payne has been involved in the neuroscience of leadership and wellness since 2007, and is dedicated to applying her research findings to business organizations, striving to help people understand how to work with, rather than against, the natural abilities of the human brain. Learn more Change Agent: The Sister Jean Story—A Documentary Film-in-Progress 1:30 PM - 2:20 PM, McKenna Hall Presented by Marianne Murphy Zarzana '78 This workshop features a trailer for CHANGE AGENT: The Sister Jean Story, a documentary film-in-progress about Sister Jean Lenz, OSF, and her key role as one of the pioneering women leaders when Notre Dame went coed. Learn the backstory of how the film project began and is evolving. Find out about opportunities to contribute to the success of the film and to provide Sister Jean Lenz stories of your own. Tour of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and Museum 1:45 PM - 2:30 PM, Basilica of the Sacred Heart Did you know that about half the saints in the stained glass windows in the basilica of the Sacred Heart are women? Find out why, reflect on the beauty and history of the Basilica, and learn more about what makes the Basilica such a sacred and special place on campus. The Basilica is open daily for self-guided tours. Guided tours will be available today from 1:45 - 2:30 p.m. Featured Event Amy Grant: Singer-Songwriter, Storyteller, and Philanthropist 2:30 PM - 3:20 PM, McKenna Hall Hear the story of Amy Grant's vision to use her Tennessee farm to provide a variety of activities to visiting nonprofit groups—nature retreats, musical rehabilitation for veterans, recreation for disabled and disadvantaged children, and opportunities to plant, grow, and harvest. Learn more One Choice: How Ten Seconds Can Change Your Life 2:30 PM - 3:20 PM, McKenna Hall Join Becky Savage, mother and co-founder of the 525 Foundation, as she shares her story of loss and new hope. The first 50 attendees will receive a signed copy of her book. Notre Dame Art & Soul: Rekindling Our Spiritual Imagination 2:30 PM - 3:20 PM, McKenna Hall Presented by Colleen Moore, '97, M.Div. '04 What better way to celebrate 50 years of women at Notre Dame than to reconsider, through art and narrative, Mary, the powerful yet often overlooked woman in whose name we gather. In this session, we'll discover what the first internationally acclaimed African American painter, Henry Ossawa Tanner, and his uncommon depiction of Mary's Annunciation, Graham's contemporary statue of Our Lady of Sorrows from Notre Dame's Cedar Grove Cemetery, and Our Lady of Guadalupe's conversation with Juan Diego in his native Nahuatl language reveal to us about the wisdom and gift of the world's at once most inculturated and hidden woman of faith. Exclusive Open Houses and Tours 2:30 PM - 4:00 PM, Various Locations Take a peek inside exclusive spaces on campus and visit your favorite locations from your time at Notre Dame or new spaces that weren't here then. Transportation will be available and will circulate throughout campus for the duration of the open houses and tours. Please note that transportation to the McConnell Family Boathouse will depart from the Eck Visitors Center. More information on locations can be found here. Women's Residence Halls Irish Athletic Center McConnell Family Boathouse Rolfs Athletics Hall Walsh Family Hall of Architecture Murdy Family Organ Father Hesburgh's Office Featured Event Notre Dame Family Wine Tasting Workshop 3:00 PM - 3:45 PM, Morris Inn An exclusive Notre Dame Family Wines tasting event featuring two of our very own alumni vintners. Guests will be able to sample a Spottswoode Sauvignon Blanc and J Pinot Noir, while learning more about the wineries, vintners, and their Notre Dame stories. The event is open to 75 guests on a first-come, first-served basis. Learn more Featured Event Tour of Holy Cross Cemetery 3:30 PM - 4:00 PM, Holy Cross Cemetery Join Rev. Austin I. Collins, C.S.C., Vice President of Mission Engagement and Church Affairs, at Holy Cross Cemetery for a unique perspective on the history of Notre Dame's founding religious community and the lives of the Holy Cross priests and brothers—including Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.,—who have shaped the University. Due to space limitations, this event will be open to the first 50 individuals that arrive at Holy Cross Cemetery. Learn more Featured Event Mass in Celebration of the 50th Anniversary 5:00 PM - 6:00 PM, Basilica of the Sacred Heart All are invited to gather for Mass in celebration of the 50th anniversary of undergraduate women. Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., University President, will preside. Learn more Featured Event Golden Gala Dinner and Program 6:15 PM - 9:15 PM, North Dome of the Joyce Center Join us for an extraordinary Golden Gala Dinner, hosted by University President, Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., featuring a performance by critically acclaimed artist Amy Grant and a special interactive video tribute. Learn more Featured Event Candlelight Grotto Walk 9:15 PM Cap off the Gala Dinner by walking together to the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes to pray and give thanks. Transportation will also be available. Learn more Featured Event Refreshment Tent 9:00 PM - Midnight, DeBartolo Quad End the evening with lively conversation, refreshments, and live music! Learn more Home Events Full Event Schedule News and Features Resources Submit your photos Register Now Full Event Schedule Office of the President 50 Golden Years Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn