Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth African and African American Studies Program in African and African American Studies Contact Us African.and.African-American.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Courses Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Forms Honors Student Prizes Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Ghana Foreign Study Program Paris Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research Overview Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Previous Thurgood Marshall Fellows Africa-Related Research African American-Related Research Back to Top Nav '82 Racial Justice Initiative About the Class of 1982 Racial Justice Initiative Support the Class of 1982 Enrichment Fund Events and Initiatives Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Director, Yared Zeleke visits Dartmouth PreviousNext Yared Zeleke's Visit Events open to Dartmouth students Lamb screening and Q&A with director Yared Zeleke after the film. Tuesday, 5/17, 7—9 pm, Loew Auditorium, VAC Masterclass Friday, 5/20, 4:30—5:30 pm, VAC 108 Film Studio Workshops (only for students registered in these courses due to classrooms' capacity) Workshop in Sound, Practice and Theory FILM 44.04 (Prof Shevaun Mizrahi) Th. 5/19 (2A) Workshop in The Idea of Africa AAAS 55.05/FILM 44.12 (Prof Ayo A. Coly and Mark Williams) T. 5/17 (2A) Yared Zeleke was born and raised in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia until he immigrated to the U.S. at the age of ten. Zeleke earned his MFA in Writing and Directing at New York University, where his thesis short film, Lottery Boy, earned him an award from the Hollywood Foreign Press Agency in 2012. Zeleke's first feature, Lamb, was screened in the Un Certain Regard section of the Cannes Film Festival in 2015. It was the first Ethiopian film to be included in the "Official Selection". The North American premiere was at the Toronto International Film Festival. Lamb garnered much press with positive reviews from major media outlets including the BBC, CNN, PBS, Le Monde, Der Spiegel, the Guardian, the Financial Times, and the New York Times. In the November issue of Variety magazine that year, Zeleke was featured among the "10 Screenwriters to Watch". Lamb made the shortlist for the 2016 Oscar's Best Foreign Language Film Award. It has since been nominated as well as won "Best Film" prizes in many worldwide festivals. Lamb has sold to over thirty territories, including the U.S. and China. Zeleke is currently working on his second feature script, Sunbirds, which was awarded a Rockefeller Foundation Fellowship. The screenplay has also received a grant from the San Francisco Film Society for 2016/17. Presently, the Sundance Institute is mentoring Zeleke on Sunbirds through its FilmTwo Initiative. Lamb Press Kit Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College African and African American Studies Program Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Courses Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Forms Honors Student Prizes Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Foreign Study Overview Ghana Foreign Study Program Paris Foreign Study Program Research Overview Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Previous Thurgood Marshall Fellows Africa-Related Research African American-Related Research '82 Racial Justice Initiative About the Class of 1982 Racial Justice Initiative Support the Class of 1982 Enrichment Fund Events and Initiatives News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback