Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Department of African and African American Studies Home About Academics Undergraduate Graduate Courses Social Engagement Initiative African Language Program Prizes & Awards Department Life News & Events People HOME / PEOPLE / Henry Louis Gates Jr. Henry Louis Gates Jr. Alphonse Fletcher, Jr. University Professor Director, Hutchins Center for African & African American Research Henry Louis Gates, Jr. is the Alphonse Fletcher University Professor and Director of the Hutchins Center for African & African American Research at Harvard University. Emmy and Peabody Award-winning filmmaker, literary scholar, journalist, cultural critic, and institution builder, Professor Gates’s most recent books are Stony the Road: Reconstruction, White Supremacy, and the Rise of Jim Crow and The Black Church: This Is Our Story, This Is Our Song. He has also produced and hosted more than 20 documentary films, most recently The Black Church on PBS and Black Art: In the Absence of Light for HBO . Finding Your Roots, his groundbreaking genealogy and genetics series, is now in its seventh season on PBS. He is a recipient of a number of honorary degrees, most recently a Litt.D. from his alma mater, the University of Cambridge. Gates was a member of the first class awarded “genius grants” by the MacArthur Foundation in 1981, and in 1998 he became the first African American scholar to be awarded the National Humanities Medal. A native of Piedmont, West Virginia, Gates earned his B.A. in History, summa cum laude, from Yale University in 1973, and his M.A. and Ph.D. in English Literature from Clare College at Cambridge in 1979, where he is also an Honorary Fellow. A former chair of the Pulitzer Prize board, he is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters and serves on a wide array of boards, including the New York Public Library, the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, the Aspen Institute, the Whitney Museum of American Art, Library of America, and The Studio Museum of Harlem. In 2011, his portrait, by Yuqi Wang, was hung in the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C. He is a member of the Phi Beta Kappa honor society. Contact Information Hutchins Center for African and African American Research 104 Mt. Auburn St. Rm. 3R Cambridge, MA 02138 Fax: (617) 495-9490 gates@harvard.edu p: (617) 495-8508 Websites Hutchins Center for African & African American Research People Faculty People Directory Faculty Emeriti Undergraduate Graduate Current Students Alumni Staff e2a21c9820f8400cc424ad4edf34ce67 6f30eceeb237862e40dac7b47f1cc6f8 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement