Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth African and African American Studies Program in African and African American Studies Contact Us African.and.African-American.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Courses Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Forms Honors Student Prizes Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Ghana Foreign Study Program Paris Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research Overview Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Previous Thurgood Marshall Fellows Africa-Related Research African American-Related Research Back to Top Nav '82 Racial Justice Initiative About the Class of 1982 Racial Justice Initiative Support the Class of 1982 Enrichment Fund Events and Initiatives Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Ghana Foreign Study Program Paris Foreign Study Program Share Ghana Foreign Study Program This is a biennial program that will run in fall 2022. Applications are now open with a deadline of February 1, 2022. Fall 15 Ghana FSP participants: Siddharth Hiregowdara, Hamdia Ibrahim, Tyne Freeman, Tramon McZeal, Nana Adjeiwaa-Manu, Professor Ayo Coly, Kristina Williams, Sydney Latimore The Institute of African Studies at the University of Ghana. Fishing boats in Accra, Ghana. Labadi Beach in Ghana. PreviousNext Program Details The African and African American Studies Program (AAAS), working in partnership with the Council on International Educational Exchange (CIEE), offers a foreign study program in Accra, Ghana. The AAAS FSP is Dartmouth's only FSP program in West Africa. Classes, designed specifically for the Dartmouth FSP, are taught on the campus of the University of Ghana, Legon, with faculty and lecturers drawn from the University and elsewhere in Ghana, and a Dartmouth faculty member affiliated with AAAS. In the AAAS program, classroom learning is integrated with research conducted in the community and local archives as well as visits to important historical and cultural sites in Accra and throughout Ghana. Students will have the opportunity to participate in volunteer and other community engagement activities during the term. Students live in a homestay situation with local families. You can expect to use public transportation to commute to campus from homes in the greater Accra region. Accra is Ghana's capital and largest city, with an estimated population of 4 million. Accra stretches along the Atlantic Ocean and is home to Ghana's central financial district, glittering beaches, historic monuments, museums, traditional markets and lively nightlife. Ghana's importance in the African Diaspora is immense. People from this region represented a significant percentage of those forcibly brought to the "New World." This resulted in a mélange of cultures linking this part of West Africa to African-descended communities in the U.S. and other parts of the Americas. Ghana is also an important site for homage and return in the African Diaspora because of its unique historical position as the first sub-Saharan African nation to receive independence and because of the Pan-African advocacy of Kwame Nkrumah, Ghana's first president. The application deadline is February 1, 2022. Faculty Director: Professor Ayo Coly, AAAS Chair Prerequisites Preference will be given to students who have taken at least one African studies course. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College African and African American Studies Program Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Courses Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Forms Honors Student Prizes Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Foreign Study Overview Ghana Foreign Study Program Paris Foreign Study Program Research Overview Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Previous Thurgood Marshall Fellows Africa-Related Research African American-Related Research '82 Racial Justice Initiative About the Class of 1982 Racial Justice Initiative Support the Class of 1982 Enrichment Fund Events and Initiatives News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback