Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth African and African American Studies Program in African and African American Studies Contact Us African.and.African-American.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Courses Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Forms Honors Student Prizes Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Ghana Foreign Study Program Paris Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research Overview Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Previous Thurgood Marshall Fellows Africa-Related Research African American-Related Research Back to Top Nav '82 Racial Justice Initiative About the Class of 1982 Racial Justice Initiative Support the Class of 1982 Enrichment Fund Events and Initiatives Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major Minor Courses Forms Honors Student Prizes Careers Research in African and African American Studies Share Honors Applying Qualified majors may apply for admission to the Honors Program during the second or third terms of their junior year. We encourage proposals to be submitted as early as possible to allow time for revision as needed. The final deadline for proposal submission is the last day of April in the student's junior year. During the senior year, a two-term thesis project is undertaken under the guidance of a AAAS faculty member. Students are expected to produce a substantial thesis as the culmination of the project. For details the full "Guide to Honors in AAAS" brochure is available in the AAAS office. Requirements At the time of application, a student desiring to participate in the Honors program in African and African American Studies should have completed 6 courses out of the courses required for the regular major, with an average grade of 3.4 or higher in those courses. The applicant's overall college G.P.A. must be 3.0 or higher. Honors in African and African American Studies requires that students complete both AAAS 98 and AAAS 99 as their Culminating Experience. The AAAS 98-99 sequence represents two (2) terms of thesis preparation and writing, and therefore requires a commitment beyond the Program's expectations for the standard AAAS major. In the ORC, Dartmouth notes that Honors work should be "greater in depth and scope than that expected in the normal major." This is part of the reason the Honors thesis is a two-term experience. Students must fulfill all the normal requirements of the AAAS major in addition to the AAAS 98-99 sequence. Producing an Honors thesis involves independent and sustained work. Students electing Honors in AAAS should be prepared and motivated to spend substantial time engaged in what can often be a somewhat solitary intellectual pursuit. The Honors program involves the student over more than two terms in designing a special topic, researching it, and eventually producing a substantial piece of writing whose depth and scope might permit the author to stand as something of an authority on the subject at hand. Such a concentrated course of research and writing is an acknowledgement of the Honors student's individuality, independence, and maturity. Ultimately, an Honors thesis should represent a student's intellectual dialogue with his or her chosen area of study. This means that a thesis is much more than a very long research paper; rather, it is a student's original and thoughtful contribution to the field of African and African American Studies. Collaboration with Faculty Another attractive element of the Honors program in AAAS is the collaboration it fosters between the student and the faculty member. Students should plan to work closely with their advisor from the earliest stages of their project (the defining of a topic) right on through to the presentation of the thesis and the final preparation of the manuscript. Advisor and student generally meet once a week over the two terms of AAAS 98-99, and in those meetings often establish an intellectual and personal relationship that many Dartmouth graduates across the College have declared the most valuable experience of their student days. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College African and African American Studies Program Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Courses Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Forms Honors Student Prizes Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Foreign Study Overview Ghana Foreign Study Program Paris Foreign Study Program Research Overview Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Previous Thurgood Marshall Fellows Africa-Related Research African American-Related Research '82 Racial Justice Initiative About the Class of 1982 Racial Justice Initiative Support the Class of 1982 Enrichment Fund Events and Initiatives News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback