Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth African and African American Studies Program in African and African American Studies Contact Us African.and.African-American.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Courses Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Forms Honors Student Prizes Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Ghana Foreign Study Program Paris Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research Overview Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Previous Thurgood Marshall Fellows Africa-Related Research African American-Related Research Back to Top Nav '82 Racial Justice Initiative About the Class of 1982 Racial Justice Initiative Support the Class of 1982 Enrichment Fund Events and Initiatives Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Previous Thurgood Marshall Fellows Africa-Related Research African American-Related Research Previous Thurgood Marshall Fellows Jaira Harrington 2013-14 Thurgood Marshall Fellow Share Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Alphonso F. Saville, the 2014-15 Marshall Fellow, giving a presentation of his work on John Marrant at the AAAS Junior Scholars Research Presentation PreviousNext Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship The goal of the Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship is to promote student and faculty diversity at Dartmouth, and throughout higher education, by supporting completion of the doctorate by underrepresented minority scholars and other graduate scholars with a demonstrated commitment and ability to advance educational diversity. Fellows participate together in mentoring and professional development programming, including guidance in preparing for faculty careers. For general inquiries, please contact the Graduate School at (603) 646-2106 or email PROF.Fellows@Dartmouth.edu Applications are currently being accepted for the 2022-2024 Thurgood Marshall Fellowship. Please apply here. Application Information Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Dartmouth College invites applications for the Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship. We seek applicants working in any geographies and disciplines and interdisciplinary spaces across African Diaspora, African American, African, or Africana Studies. Particular attention will be given to candidates whose work augments and complements current faculty in the African and African American Studies Program (AAAS). Applicants will be selected on the basis of their academic achievement, promise in both research and teaching, and their demonstrated commitment to educational diversity. Applications from candidates who are underrepresented in their fields are especially welcome. This is a two-year residential fellowship in which the fellow is focused on their research and writing. We seek applicants who can contribute to building the intellectual life of the AAAS program and Dartmouth College. Fellows are expected to complete the dissertation at the end of their first year and then transition to a postdoctoral appointment for the second year. In the first year, predoctoral fellows receive an annual stipend of approximately $36,000 plus benefits and an allocation for research expenses. In the second year, postdoctoral fellows receive a stipend of approximately $55,200 plus benefits and an allocation for research expenses (exact funding levels for 2022-24 will be set at the time of offer). Fellows will teach one course in the second year. Marshall Fellows are part of the Provost's Fellowship Program, a multidisciplinary cohort of approximately ten predoctoral and postdoctoral scholars who share a commitment to increasing diversity in their disciplines. Fellows participate together in mentoring and professional development programming, including guidance in preparing for faculty careers. Application Materials Research statement outlining completed research (including dissertation), work in progress, and plans for publication (maximum two pages single spaced); Teaching statement outlining past and future teaching interests (maximum one page single spaced); Fellowship program statement describing your motivations to join a multidisciplinary cohort; the statement should also describe prior and potential contributions to diversity in the context of academic research, teaching, and/or service (maximum one page single spaced); Curriculum vitae; Three confidential letters of recommendation, one of which must be from the dissertation advisor and address the projected timeline for completion. Review of applications will begin February 1, 2022 and continue until the position is filled. Please apply here Dartmouth College is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer with a strong commitment to diversity and inclusion. We prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability, veteran status, marital status, or any other legally protected status. Applications by members of all underrepresented groups are encouraged. 2021-23 Thurgood Marshall Fellow Jovonna M. Jones, Harvard University Jovonna M. Jones is our current Thurgood Marshall Predoc Fellow. She is completing her PhD in African & African American Studies at Harvard University. In her dissertation she examines Black women's desires for quality homes in mid-20th century Chicago, producing an archive of spatial claims and concerns that surface through poetry, planning, painting, and playwriting. Her research and teaching interests include African American art and literature, gender and performance, and the built environment. Her work has been supported through fellowships with the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics and the Harvard Graduate School of Design. She holds a B.A. in African American Studies from Emory University, where she was a Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellow. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College African and African American Studies Program Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Courses Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Forms Honors Student Prizes Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Foreign Study Overview Ghana Foreign Study Program Paris Foreign Study Program Research Overview Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Previous Thurgood Marshall Fellows Africa-Related Research African American-Related Research '82 Racial Justice Initiative About the Class of 1982 Racial Justice Initiative Support the Class of 1982 Enrichment Fund Events and Initiatives News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback