Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth African and African American Studies Program in African and African American Studies Contact Us African.and.African-American.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Courses Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Forms Honors Student Prizes Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Ghana Foreign Study Program Paris Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research Overview Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Previous Thurgood Marshall Fellows Africa-Related Research African American-Related Research Back to Top Nav '82 Racial Justice Initiative About the Class of 1982 Racial Justice Initiative Support the Class of 1982 Enrichment Fund Events and Initiatives Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Ghana Foreign Study Program Paris Foreign Study Program Share Paris Foreign Study Program The Afro/Black Paris FSP is a biennial program taught in English. The next offering is Summer 2023. Black Girl in Paris (2013) by Kiandra Parks and Shay Youngblood Experience another Paris! Experience Paris at night! PreviousNext Program Details Program Dates: TBD Program Overview Language of Instruction: English "The Afro/Black FSP was a life-changing experience that allowed me to learn about French history and cultures both in and outside of the classroom. I have not experienced anything like it thus far. The trip to the Dordogne region in France to see Josephine Baker's Chateau and fieldtrips to other regions were amazing and also instructive. Art was a vital part of our program and being surrounded by the arts also provided me with an opportunity to perform my poetry at a jazz club through the Jazz/Spoken World workshop and to have a portrait made of me by a well-known artists whose work focuses on the experiences of people from African descent. The Afro/Black Paris FSP was without a doubt a rewarding experience that I highly recommend to others." Antonette Davids, Dartmouth '20 "Professor Keaton kept her promise when she said it would be an unforgettable experience. I gained so many adaptable life-lessons and academic skills. Choosing to go on this FSP during my freshman summer was hands down one of my best decisions at Dartmouth thus far. A great deal of my growth, both personally and as an aspiring academic, is thanks to this FSP." Nai-ah Dixon, Dartmouth '21 View the Afro/Black Paris Experience in the following videos: Afro Black Paris FSP, 2018 African Americans in France --------------- The African and African American Studies Program (AAAS) offers an FSP in Paris, France, entitled Afro/Black Paris: The African Diaspora in the City of Light. The AAAS Paris FSP takes place in one of the most extraordinary destinations in the world. It embodies experiential learning, and is intensive, interdisciplinary, and immersive. Comprised of three courses taught in English, this Program offers a unique opportunity to explore "another Paris," the exceptional and lived-experience that we refer to as Afro/Black Paris, described by former students as "life-altering!" Nowhere has a metropolis in mainland Europe been so historically and socially transformed by a fascinating diversity of people from countries in Africa, the Caribbean, and the Americas. What accounts for that presence? What are the lived experiences of people who self-identify and/or are identified as "b/Black," that is, "n/Noir.e.s."? What are the implications of this lived reality in France today? These are among the questions we will explore. Students enrolled at Dartmouth's exchange partner schools, including Spelman, Morehouse and schools participating in the Twelve College Exchange are eligible and welcome to apply. Faculty Director Professor Trica Keaton – Dartmouth College Prerequisites Preference will be given to students who have taken at least one course in AAAS, and are interested in learning, not only, about Afro/Black Paris, but also, about Paris and France. Student Life Living Accommodations: TBA Students will stay in hotels during overnight fieldtrips. For more information, please contact: Professor Trica Keaton at trica.d.keaton@dartmouth.edu or visit the AAAS website at http://aaas.dartmouth.edu/foreign-study/paris-foreign-study-program Financial Information - Forthcoming The Paris Experience Paris, France is one of the most extraordinary destinations in the world. It is also an exceptional site in the African diaspora, a “City of Light” that Ernest Hemingway befittingly describes as “a moveable feast.” Nowhere has a metropolis in mainland Europe been so historically and socially transformed by a fascinating diversity of people from countries in Africa, the Caribbean, and the Americas. Although their presence in France is centuries-old, Paris and France continue to be a contested home for their French descendants and others of African descent where questions of race, racialization, racism, anti-racism and their intersection conjugate with myths, narratives, and representations of these regions as colorblind and race-free. What is Afro/Black Paris? What are the important events, key debates, and central figures associated with it? What do belonging and identity politics look like on the ground for citizens and denizens who refer to themselves and/or are referred to by others as “Afro French,” “B/black,” or “N/noir-e-s?” Is it as James Baldwin writes, “[i]n America, the color of my skin had stood between myself and me; in Europe, that barrier was down?” Experience a unique opportunity to explore “another Paris,” the exceptional and lived-experience that we refer to as Afro/Black Paris! Experience workshops on art, cuisine, film, Hip Hop, jazz, the literary landscape, museums, open markets, and so much more! Experience fieldtrips, ranging from a major slave port in France (i.e., Nantes) to the fairytale medieval village and chateau in the Dordogne region (i.e., Chateau des Milandes) where Josephine Baker and her twelve adopted children prospered! Contact Information For more information, please contact: Professor Trica Keaton Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College African and African American Studies Program Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Courses Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Forms Honors Student Prizes Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Foreign Study Overview Ghana Foreign Study Program Paris Foreign Study Program Research Overview Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Previous Thurgood Marshall Fellows Africa-Related Research African American-Related Research '82 Racial Justice Initiative About the Class of 1982 Racial Justice Initiative Support the Class of 1982 Enrichment Fund Events and Initiatives News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback