Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth African and African American Studies About the banner image Program in African and African American Studies Contact Us African.and.African-American.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Courses Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Forms Honors Student Prizes Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview Ghana Foreign Study Program Paris Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Research Overview Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Previous Thurgood Marshall Fellows Africa-Related Research African American-Related Research Back to Top Nav '82 Racial Justice Initiative About the Class of 1982 Racial Justice Initiative Support the Class of 1982 Enrichment Fund Events and Initiatives Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next AAAS End-of-Year Celebration and Award Ceremony The African and African American Studies community is invited to the Program's annual End-of-Year Celebration and Award Ceremony on Wednesday, June 1, 12:30 - 2:00 pm. Director, Yared Zeleke visits Dartmouth Director, Yared Zeleke will be visiting Dartmouth from Mon. May 16 to Fri. May 20, 2022. His first feature, Lamb, was screened in the Un Certain Regard section of the Cannes Film Festival in 2015. It was the first Ethiopian film to be included in the "Official Selection". Black Aesthetics and Liberatory Space-Making How do we hold space for each other in vulnerable and volatile times? How have artists, writers, and performers created spaces of refuge and respite in hostile environments? Conversation with Sarah Jane Cervenak, author of "Black Gathering: Art, Ecology, Ungiven Life" on May 3rd at 4 pm. via Zoom. Racial Justice: A Dialogue with Carol Anderson and Frank Wilderson All are welcome to join our Spring 2022 Social Justice Event sponsored by the AAAS Academic Enrichment Fund and AAAS. Anderson and Wilderson will present brief keynote speeches, followed by a moderated conversation and Q and A. The Institute of the Black World & The Founding of Dartmouth's African American Studies Program Please join us for a lecture by Dr. Derrick White, Professor of History and African American and Africana Studies at the University of Kentucky. All are welcome. April 26, 5 p.m., Haldeman 041 and via Zoom. An Evening with Nikole Hannah-Jones and the 1619 Project Today Nikole Hannah-Jones is the Pulitzer Prize-winning creator of the 1619 Project and a staff writer at The New York Times Magazine. She has spent her career investigating racial inequality and injustice, and her reporting has earned her numerous awards. Jesse Weaver Shipley Curates First International Retrospective of Formative Photographer at Sharjah Art Foundation The John D. Willard Professor of AAAS and Oratory, Jesse Weaver Shipley, curates exhibition, "Gerald Annan-Forson: Revolution and Image-making in Postcolonial Ghana (1979-1985)." Film Screening of "Freda" with director Gessica Généus A determined young woman charts her uncertain future in this vivid evocation of life in modern Haiti. AAAS in conjunction with the Hopkins Center for the Arts presents a film screening of "Freda" followed by a conversation with director Gessica Généus and Prof. Chelsey Kivland. Trica Keaton Nominated for Tyler Stovall Mission Prize Professor Trica Keaton has been nominated for the 2021-22 Tyler Stovall Mission Prize awarded by the Western Society of French History (WSFH) for her efforts in diversity, equity, and inclusion in the fields of francophone studies and French history. Book Conversation with Professor Abigail Neely All are invited to a conversation with Abigail Neely, Assistant Professor of Geography and AAAS, to discuss her new book, "Reimagining Social Medicine from the South." The conversation will be moderated by Sienna Craig, Anthropology; Naaborko Sackeyfio-Lenoch, History and AAAS; and Susanne Freidberg, Geography. Recent Publications view all Mothers of the Movement: Evangelicalism and Religious Experience in Black Women's Activism Vaughn A. Booker Religions 2021, 12(2), 141; https://doi.org/10.3390/rel12020141 Guest Editor, The Practice of Freedom Joshua Brandon Bennett Poetry Magazine, Poetry Foundation, February 2021, https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poetrymagazine/issue/155204/february-2021 "Prosperity Meets the Poor: the Mission of Charleszetta 'Mother' Waddles in Urban America" Vaughn A. Booker Faithfully Magazine, October 2020, https://faithfullymagazine.com/mother-waddles-prosperity-poor/ "Lift Every Voice and Swing: Black Musicians and Religious Culture in the Jazz Century" Vaughn A. Booker New York University Press, 2020. Events view all Jul 27 7:00PM How Colleges and Universities Can Undo Systemic Racism in Faculty Hiring Zoom - register to receive link Part of the book series Academic Innovation for the Public Good, a conversation with author Marybeth Gasman, professor in the Graduate School of Education at Rutgers University. Jul 28 6:00PM ARTS ENCOUNTER: Dance Theater of Harlem Hood Museum of Art The Hopkins Center and the Dance Theater of Harlem, partner with the Hood Museum of Art for an artistic encounter. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College African and African American Studies Program Undergraduate Overview Major Minor Courses Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Forms Honors Student Prizes Careers Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Foreign Study Overview Ghana Foreign Study Program Paris Foreign Study Program Research Overview Thurgood Marshall Dissertation Fellowship Previous Thurgood Marshall Fellows Africa-Related Research African American-Related Research '82 Racial Justice Initiative About the Class of 1982 Racial Justice Initiative Support the Class of 1982 Enrichment Fund Events and Initiatives News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback