Skip to main content Back Educators Educators Educators AACSB unites the best minds in business education—and business—connecting you to the people, resources, and ideas to thrive. Explore More Accreditation Accreditation Accreditation Overview Business Accreditation Supplemental Accounting Accreditation Search AACSB-Accredited Schools Educational Membership Educational Membership Membership Overview Advertise, Exhibit, Sponsor Networking Communities Find a Member Learning and Events Learning and Events Featured Annual Accreditation Conference: Asia Pacific Which Event Type is Right for Me? All Learning and Events Insights Insights Trending Now Accreditation B-School Leadership Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging Societal Impact All Insights Tools Tools Business Services Directory Search for products and services for your school. AACSB Exchange A forum for AACSB members. DataDirect Your source for business education data. myAccreditation Manage your accreditation documentation. Career Connection Search for and post open positions. Help us further our mission of fostering engagement, accelerating innovation, and amplifying impact in business education. Volunteer Opportunities and Resources Businesses Businesses Businesses Connect with the best business schools in the world to shape the skills of your workforce—and the future of business education. Explore More Business Membership Business Membership Membership Overview Business Practices Council Networking Communities Advertise, Exhibit, Sponsor Partner Find a Member Learning and Events Learning and Events Bridge Program Conferences Insights Insights Trending Now Learning and Development HR and Recruiting Future of Work Leadership Societal Impact All Insights Tools Tools AACSB Exchange A forum for AACSB members. DataDirect Your source for business education data. Search AACSB-Accredited Schools Learners Learners Learners Navigating the next phase of your learning journey starts here, with tools and resources that guide you to the best business schools in the world Explore More Start Start Why Accreditation Matters Your Journey Your Journey Undergraduate Master's MBA Doctorate Executive Education Tips and Advice Tips and Advice Trending Now Deciding on a School Choosing a Program Career Pathways Student Voices All Tips and Advice Tools Tools Search AACSB-Accredited Schools School Comparison Tool Is a business degree right for me? Which business major is right for me? About Us About Us About Us We are a global nonprofit association, that connects educators, students, and business to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders. Explore More Get to Know Us Get to Know Us Governance and Leadership ISO 9001:2015 Certified Partners Media Center Advocacy Advocacy Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging Influential Leaders Innovations That Inspire Positive Societal Impact Work With Us Work With Us Volunteer Careers Connect With Us Connect With Us Contact Us Log In Search Close search Popular Pages Educators Accredited School Search Accreditation Learning and Events Membership Insights Businesses Membership Insights Advertise, Sponsor, Exhibit Learners Accredited School Search Tips and Advice Is Business School Right for Me? About Careers Contact Us Business Education. Connected. We're transforming business education for educators, businesses, and learners. Who We Are 100+ member countries/territories 150k+ thought leaders & educators 900+ accredited schools 4m+ students Browse All Schools Who are you? Discover content curated for your unique needs. I am an Educator looking to discover insights, events, and best practices for my work as a business education faculty member and leader. I am a Business seeking collaborations with business schools to access talent, discover resources, and build a pipeline of future leaders. I am a Learner considering business school and searching for the best business school and program to meet my goals. AACSB Highlights 24 Business Schools Elevating Diversity and Inclusion Learn More Trending Now Discover the latest insights in business education TRENDING May 18, 2022 Mindfulness: A Critical Skill for Future Leaders We must integrate mindfulness into business curricula if we are to educate transformational leaders—here are recommendations for achieving that goal. Article TRENDING Five Forces Driving the Future of Business Education AACSB identifies five forces that will help business schools achieve systemic change in response to shifting societal and business needs. Report Free TRENDING Embedding Crisis Management in the Core Rohrer College of Business has embedded modules in four core courses, each designed to prepare students to manage and lead through any crisis that lies ahead. Article May 16, 2022 View More Upcoming Events Connect, learn, and grow at AACSB's global events Featured June 8 – 10, 2022 In-Person Annual Accreditation Conference: Asia Pacific (In-Person) Conference location: Singapore Management University Conference Featured June 22 – 24, 2022 In-Person Annual Accreditation Conference: Europe, Middle East and Africa (In-Person) Conference location: BI Norwegian Business School, Oslo, Norway Conference Featured June 23 – 24, 2022 Virtual Lessons for Aspiring Deans Seminar This unique, interactive virtual seminar will provide you with the necessary tools to navigate the career search process, achieve success, and thrive in your new role. Seminar View More Business Education. Connected. We unite the best minds in business education to shape the next generation of leaders. Explore Educators Businesses Learners Connect Advertise, Exhibit, Sponsor Volunteer Advocacy Careers Media Center Contact Us Social Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Vimeo WeChat © 2022 AACSB Terms of Use Privacy Policy