Skip to content Community News Nexus Podcast Features About Skip to content Community News Nexus Podcast Features About Menu Honoring the work of African American designers at the intersection of design, Black identity, and practice. Remembering Virgil Abloh The African American Design Nexus mourns the loss of Virgil Abloh. Remembering Virgil Abloh Nexus Highlights Nexus Podcast The African American Design Nexus presents The Nexus, a podcast that explores the intersection of design, identity, and practice through conversations with Black designers, writers and educators. The Latest: Lesley Lokko / See All StoryMaps African American Design Nexus StoryMaps harness the power of maps, images, and a series of other media to tell place-based, interactive stories about sites of Black design. The Latest: Twin Cities StoryMap / See All Perspectives Perspectives, from The African American Design Nexus, uses text to highlight the viewpoints, outlooks and access points of Black designers in their practice. The Latest: The Legacy of Donald L. Stull: Ruggles Station / See All Explore all Topics Activism Architecture Artists Campus Planning Civil Rights Community Conceptual Work Cultural Development Diaspora Education Fabrication Government Historical Innovation Installation Landscape Architecture Materials Ne Public Space Research Revitalization Science Social Equity Sustainability Urban Planning & Design Nexus Features Nexus Features seek to promote the presence of African Americans in the design industry, showcase their craft, and the areas they work. Los Angeles J. Max Bond Jr. Woven Water Filter See All Features Community News The latest news and updates from the African American Design Nexus community. Check out the latest Nexus Podcast Lesley Lokko March 20, 2022 Nexus Podcast Dana McKinney January 21, 2022 Announcements Remembering Virgil Abloh November 30, 2021 Announcements Celebrating 50 Years of NOMA November 24, 2021 Nexus Podcast The Nexus X Black in Design November 11, 2021 Nexus Podcast Sekou Cooke October 7, 2021 See All Community News Honoring the work of African American designers at the intersection of design, identity, and practice. Community News Nexus Podcast Features About Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement For questions, comments, or to suggest a design or designer: Inquiries Frances Loeb Library 48 Quincy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College