Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU Office of Research The Achievement & Assessment Institute myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Affiliated Faculty News AAI Blog AAI Centers Select to follow link Strategic Centers Select to follow link Accessible Teaching, Learning, & Assessment Systems (ATLAS) Agile Technology Solutions (ATS) Center for Certification and Competency-Based Education (C3BE) Center for Educational Opportunity Programs (CEOP) Center for Montessori Research (CMR) Center for Public Partnerships & Research (CPPR) Tactical Centers Select to follow link Ad Astra Center for Science Fiction and the Speculative Imagination Center for Creativity and Entrepreneurship Education (CCEE) Center for Innovation, Design, and Digital Learning (CIDDL) Center for Positive Youth Development (CPYD) Jayhawk Athletic Performance Laboratory Grant Support Select to follow link Grant and Project Development Resources Research Services Contact AAI Employment Opportunities GRA Handbook (pdf) myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU Office of Research The Achievement & Assessment Institute Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search The Achievement & Assessment Institute AAI and its centers partner with numerous agencies to improve the lives of children and adults through academics, employment, career advancement, and building healthy environments, and to enhance the capacity of organizations that help children, adults, and communities succeed. Aspire, Achieve, Inspire Explore the Achievement & Assessment Institute and learn how we impact our local, regional, and national communities through academics, research, direct-impact programming, technology, community engagement, and more. About AAI Explore the Achievement & Assessment Institute AAI Centers Read more about each AAI center and discover how they impact our communities. Our Centers Grant Support Learn about our life cycle grant support for AAI researchers and KU faculty. Grant Support Our Services Explore the services we offer to help elevate your research project. AAI Services AAI in the News AAI's Center for Montessori Research Houses Large Online Montessori Research Bibliography Scholars and researchers investigating the Montessori model of education now have a robust tool to aid their efforts. Housed at the Center for Montessori Research (CMR), a center within the University of Kansas Achievement & Assessment Institute (AAI), the Montessori Bibliography Online makes… Researcher Jade Caines Lee Joins Achievement & Assessment Institute AAI is excited to announce researcher and education professor Jade Caines Lee will be joining the institute as an Assistant Research Professor. Lee will be primarily positioned within AAI’s Center for Montessori Research (CMR), but, due to her considerable expertise and experience in assessment,… AAI Announces the Center for Positive Youth Development The Achievement & Assessment Institute (AAI) is excited to announce its latest center, the Center for Positive Youth Development. Led by director David Hansen, an Associate Professor of Education Psychology in the School of Education and Human Sciences at the University of Kansas, the Center… Antiracism in Data Management from AAI's Center for Educational Opportunity Programs AAI's Center for Educational Opportunity Programs is starting a new initiative, Antiracism in Data Management. This will provide learning opportunities and resources for researchers and evaluators who utilize large datasets to evaluate and serve racially marginalized populations across the country. View all news Contact the Achievement & Assessment Institute St. Andrews Office Facility 1515 St Andrews Dr Lawrence, KS 66047 aaimedia@ku.edu 785-864-9977 facebook twitter linkedin AAI Centers Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.