Skip to content Search Cornell AAP Search Keyword Search Options Search AAP Cornell University Menu Search AAP › Academics › Department of Architecture › About the Department › Dragon Day AAP Academics Department of Architecture About the Department Architecture Lectures Department Mission Department History Dragon Day NAAB Accreditation Studio Culture Policy Traveling Fellowship 1042 Dragon Day View video transcript Black and white image of a horse and wagon pulling a dragon, that is draped over students who are walking behind the cart. From the early 1900s. An open-mouth dragon is resting in place while a crowd walks into the beast. Black and white image, taken in 1927. In 1988, a tall dragon made its way down East Avenue. A green paper mache head covers the 1964 dragon, with students draped in fabric making up the body. A. D. White statue adorned with the dragon head in 1965. Ezra Cornell's statue on the Arts Quad is covered in the 1964 dragon following the parade. The 1972 dragon head, waiting on the third floor of Sibley Hall. Students carrying the dragon head out of the studio. Students in 1927, gathered around the drafting table to plan that year's dragon. A dragon clad over a car lies toppled in the road as the body made up of students and fabric, stands to the side. In the 70s a dragon with a small head and long body turns out from behind Sibley Hall to start the parade. The upright dragon in front of Rand Hall, 1988. Crowds surround the dragon in 1987 as it makes it way along the parade route. In 1989, the dragon was set on fire adrift in Beebe Lake. Birds-eye view from 1972. A yellow-bellied dragon passes by Willard Strait Hall in 1987. Students wearing the dragon head and body on the Arts Quad in 1964. A dragon head hanging out of the third-floor window of East Sibley Hall, while students hang out of the other windows. Costumed students join the parade in 1980. A shimmering gold and silver dragon soars over the parade in 2010. The parade in full swing in 1927, in this black and white image taken on the Arts Quad. Last-minute adjustments for the 1981 dragon. The same dragon, up in flames following the parade through campus. The crowd watches as the dragon burns. What's left of the dragon after the ceremonial burning in 1990. Another vantage point to watch the fire, looking up at Sibley Dome. Every year in March, in a tradition that goes back more than 100 years, an enormous dragon created by first-year architecture students parades across campus. Accompanied by AAP students in outrageous costumes, the dragon lumbers to the Arts Quad where it does battle with a phoenix created by rival engineering students. This rite of spring is one of Cornell’s best-known traditions. Learn more about Dragon Day 2022 History of Dragon Day: The idea of Dragon Day is credited to Cornellian Willard Dickerman Straight '01, who believed that there should be a distinctive College of Architecture Day. At the time, he chose St. Patrick's Day and the first College of Architecture Day was celebrated with the hanging of orange and green banners (orange to appease the campus's Protestant population), shamrocks, and other thematic decorations on Lincoln Hall, which at the time housed the College of Architecture. Later, the additional theme of celebrating St. Patrick's success in driving the serpents out of Ireland became attached to the holiday. How the first parade evolved into a well-known and celebrated rite of spring for the first-year architecture class — ending with the burning of the dragon on the Arts Quad, a tradition that has since been abandoned — has not been revealed. Dragon Day as it is celebrated today (with an actual constructed dragon, and the associated ceremonies) evolved sometime in the 1950s when the serpents previously used "grew up." Though history also isn't clear when the actual phrase "Dragon Day" was introduced, speculation suggests that it might have also been in the 1950s. Prior to this time, the holiday was still celebrated as primarily College of Architecture Day, and the theme was less focused around the dragon. The rivalry between the architecture and the engineering students before and during Dragon Day celebrations seems to have simply developed through history, and is now embodied through engineering students' construction of a creature to challenge the dragon symbolically — specifically, a phoenix. For several decades, Dragon Day was celebrated either on St. Patrick's Day, or immediately before Spring Break — whichever date happened first. When a new academic calendar was introduced in 2013, Spring Break moved later into the month of March and Dragon Day is now routinely celebrated the day before students leave campus for a week in late March. History is excerpted from the University Archives. Related Pages Dragon Day 2022 in the Cornell Chronicle Dragon Day 2019 in the Cornell Chronicle Dragon Day 2018 in the Cornell Chronicle Dragon Day 2017 in the Cornell Chronicle Dragon Day 2016 in the Cornell Chronicle Dragon Day 2015 in the Cornell Chronicle Dragon Day 2014 in the Cornell Chronicle Dragon Day Galleries in Flickr, 2009–16 Contact Department of Architecture 139 E. Sibley Hall Phone: (607) 255-5236 Fax: (607) 255-0291 cuarch@cornell.edu Monday–Friday, 9 a.m.–4:30 p.m. AAP › Academics › Department of Architecture › About the Department › Dragon Day AAP Academics Department of Architecture About the Department Architecture Lectures Department Mission Department History Dragon Day NAAB Accreditation Studio Culture Policy Traveling Fellowship 1042 Cornell AAP is about acts of transformation. We advance research, scholarship, and critical and creative practices to build a more sustainable, just, and resilient world. Connect with AAP Visit Support Contact Explore Programs Architecture Art Planning Follow Us AAP Twitter AAP Facebook AAP LinkedIn AAP Instagram AAP Flickr Subscribe to AAP News Enter email address © 2022 Cornell University Cornell University College of Architecture, Art, and Planning, 129 Sibley Dome, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Sitemap About AAP At a Glance Who We Are Our Story Mission Diversity, Equity, Inclusion + Belonging The Dean's Letter Our Locations Ithaca AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Connect Contact Us Staff Directory News In the Media Features Conversations Faculty Work Announcements Events Exhibitions Functions Lectures Symposia Beyond AAP Workshops Academics AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Department of Architecture About the Department Degree Program: Undergraduate Degree Programs: Graduate Department Faculty Elective Classes and Option Studios Introduction to Architecture Summer Student Work Student Work 2021 Department of Art About the Department Undergraduate Program M.F.A. Program Department Faculty Department Events Student Work Teiger Mentor in the Arts John A. Cooper Visiting Artist Lecture Series Summer Programs for High School and College Students Department of City and Regional Planning About the Department Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Department Faculty Student Work Public Engagement Clarence S. Stein Institute Faculty Directory Open Positions Student Work What are AAP Undergraduate Students Learning? Admissions Graduate Admissions Architecture Art City and Regional Planning Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Funding Opportunities Undergraduate Admissions Architecture Art Urban and Regional Studies Admissions Events Tuition and Financial Aid Application Deadlines Internal Transfer Interview Request Form Program Information Request Form Resources Featured For Faculty For Students Facilities and Spaces Fine Arts Library Studio Spaces Making and Production Galleries and Exhibitions Offices and Services Office of Student Services Computer Support and Services Business Service Center Office of Communications AAP COVID-19 Updates Art Studios and Classrooms Darkrooms and Print Media Facilities Fabrication Shops Student Activities and Organizations Supply Store Supply Store Price List Tool Checkout Policy Alumni Affairs Overview × Architecture Art Planning About At a Glance Anniversaries Who We Are+— Our Story Mission Leadership DEI + Belonging+— Goals and Initiatives College Organizations Office of Diversity + Inclusion Council for Diversity + Inclusion AAP Resources and Services University Resources The Dean's Letter Our Locations+— Ithaca AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Connect+— Contact Us Staff Directory Visit Us Admissions Graduate admissions+— Architecture Art City and Regional Planning Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Undergraduate admissions+— Architecture Art Urban and Regional Studies Tuition and Financial Aid Application Deadlines Apply Now Academics Architecture+— Graduate programs Undergraduate program Art+— MFA program Undergraduate program City and Regional Planning+— Graduate programs Undergraduate program AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Faculty+— Directory Open Positions Work Student work Request Program Info Research Cornell Mui Ho Center for Cities Labs Faculty Work Faculty Directory Alumni Affairs Support Get Involved Advisory Council News & Events Alumni Archive Alumni Resources Give a Gift News In the Media Features Conversations Faculty Work Announcements See All News Events Exhibitions Functions Lectures Symposia Workshops Beyond AAP See All Events Resources Featured+— For Faculty For Students Facilities and Spaces+— Fine Arts Library Studio Spaces Making and Production Galleries and Exhibitions Offices and services+— Office of Student Services Computer Support and Services Business Services Center Office of Communications Fabrication Shops COVID-19 Updates