Skip to content Search Cornell AAP Search Keyword Search Options Search AAP Cornell University Menu Search AAP Homepage Anniversaries Architecture at 150 | Art at 100 The College of Architecture, Art, and Planning marks the Department of Architecture's 150th academic year and a century of art education with a broad slate of college-wide events from exhibitions and artist talks, to symposia, public lectures and special community gatherings. This Week at AAP A Message From Dean Yoon Looking Back / Looking Forward Architecture at 150 | Art at 100 Rubacha Featured Speakers Lecture Series: Talks with Peter Eisenman (B.Arch. '54) and Shelly Silver (B.F.A. '80) Join the College in celebrating the Department of Architecture's 150th academic year and a century of art education by attending the Rubacha Featured Speakers Event during this year's Cornell Reunion Weekend. Architecture at 150 | Art at 100 Measures and Meaning Visit an exhibition of selected works by the AAP community on view across the college's galleries and exhibition spaces celebrating Architecture's 150th academic year, and 100 years of art education at Cornell. Curated by Sean Anderson, Associate Professor of Architecture and Director of the B.Arch. Program. Function Cornell Reunion Olin Lecture with Olalekan Jeyifous (B.Arch. '99) Learn how cultural identity, interdisciplinary exploration, and environmental and geopolitical realities impacted one Cornellian's journey — followed by a Q&A moderated by AAP Dean J. Meejin Yoon (B.Arch. '95). Urbanism and Development Priceless Sculptures Are 'Literally Being Chipped Away' The New York Times includes CRP Professor Thomas Campanella's perspective on the impact of Bronx apartment complex planners Gilmore D. Clarke and Michael Rapuano on American spaces. Creative and Critical Practices UK-Based Public Art Project Offers Any Person 'Key to the City' Over 10 weeks starting May 28, a key designed by AAP Art Chair Paul Ramírez Jonas for the Birmingham 2022 Festival will allow thousands of residents and visitors to pass through typically inaccessible and hidden urban spaces throughout the city of Birmingham, England. A Message From Dean Yoon Looking Back / Looking Forward Architecture at 150 | Art at 100 Measures and Meaning Visit an exhibition of selected works by the AAP community on view across the college's galleries and exhibition spaces celebrating Architecture's 150th academic year, and 100 years of art education at Cornell. Curated by Sean Anderson, Associate Professor of Architecture and Director of the B.Arch. Program. Urbanism and Development Priceless Sculptures Are 'Literally Being Chipped Away' The New York Times includes CRP Professor Thomas Campanella's perspective on the impact of Bronx apartment complex planners Gilmore D. Clarke and Michael Rapuano on American spaces. Architecture at 150 | Art at 100 Rubacha Featured Speakers Lecture Series: Talks with Peter Eisenman (B.Arch. '54) and Shelly Silver (B.F.A. '80) Join the College in celebrating the Department of Architecture's 150th academic year and a century of art education by attending the Rubacha Featured Speakers Event during this year's Cornell Reunion Weekend. Function Cornell Reunion Olin Lecture with Olalekan Jeyifous (B.Arch. '99) Learn how cultural identity, interdisciplinary exploration, and environmental and geopolitical realities impacted one Cornellian's journey — followed by a Q&A moderated by AAP Dean J. Meejin Yoon (B.Arch. '95). Creative and Critical Practices UK-Based Public Art Project Offers Any Person 'Key to the City' Over 10 weeks starting May 28, a key designed by AAP Art Chair Paul Ramírez Jonas for the Birmingham 2022 Festival will allow thousands of residents and visitors to pass through typically inaccessible and hidden urban spaces throughout the city of Birmingham, England. News & Events Beyond AAP June 13–August 5, 2022 Design+Tech Initiative at Cornell Offering Summer Workshops Open to the public, this series of four weeklong workshops held on the Cornell Tech campus in New York City will provide intensive study of specialized subjects led by Cornell professors and researchers. News Monday, May 23, 2022 David M. Einhorn Center Partners with AAP to Support College-Wide Community-Engaged Learning David M. Einhorn Center Partners with AAP to Support College-Wide Community Engaged Learning. In the News Tuesday, May 24, 2022 All Things Equal: Sculpture Shoppe Exhibit WHCU's All Things Equal podcast speaks with Sculpture Shoppe cocurator David Nasca (M.F.A. '22) about an exhibition mixing contemporary and ancient sculpture on display at the Ithaca Mall. News Tuesday, May 10, 2022 National Zoning Atlas Launched to Make America's Patchwork of Codes Accessible and Comprehensible Professor of City and Regional Planning Sara Bronin's zoning atlas initiative is a first-of-its-kind effort to translate and standardize zoning codes across the U.S. into a single, accessible online resource. In the News Wednesday, May 11, 2022 Renters Are the Overlooked Victims of Big Investors In an op-ed for The Hill, CRP Associate Professor Suzanne Lanyi Charles offers suggestions on how to protect families from the practices of mega-landlords who compromise housing stability, security, and affordability. In the News Thursday, May 12, 2022 Migrations Grants Fund Worldwide Interdisciplinary Projects The Cornell Chronicle highlights awarded faculty research, including work by Architecture Professor Esra Akcan, Art Visiting Associate Professor Renate Ferro, and Architecture Assistant Professor Tao DuFour. Function June 9–12, 2022 Reunion 2022 All AAP Alumni are invited to reconnect and join us for special events including art and architecture department anniversary celebrations. In the News Tuesday, May 10, 2022 Elevated Conversations: Melody Tang, AIA, and Ryan Jang, AIA The American Institute of Architects speaks with Melody Tang (B.Arch. '03), a recipient of the 2022 AIA Young Architects Award, about her career path, the importance of diversity and inclusion, and more. Student Work Junsik Oh (B.Arch. 2020) Thesis Work by Libby Rosa: Sky Woman Libby Rosa (M.F.A. 2019) Chasing the Urban Dream: Land Politics, Citizenship, and State Identity in Contemporary China Blanche Shao (B.S. URS 2019) View More Student Work Disciplines All Disciplines Architecture Art Planning Degrees All Degrees Undergraduate Graduate Cornell AAP is about acts of transformation. We advance research, scholarship, and critical and creative practices to build a more sustainable, just, and resilient world. Connect with AAP Visit Support Contact Explore Programs Architecture Art Planning Follow Us AAP Twitter AAP Facebook AAP LinkedIn AAP Instagram AAP Flickr Subscribe to AAP News Enter email address © 2022 Cornell University Cornell University College of Architecture, Art, and Planning, 129 Sibley Dome, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Sitemap About AAP At a Glance Who We Are Our Story Mission Diversity, Equity, Inclusion + Belonging The Dean's Letter Our Locations Ithaca AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Connect Contact Us Staff Directory News In the Media Features Conversations Faculty Work Announcements Events Exhibitions Functions Lectures Symposia Beyond AAP Workshops Academics AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Department of Architecture About the Department Degree Program: Undergraduate Degree Programs: Graduate Department Faculty Elective Classes and Option Studios Introduction to Architecture Summer Student Work Student Work 2021 Department of Art About the Department Undergraduate Program M.F.A. Program Department Faculty Department Events Student Work Teiger Mentor in the Arts John A. Cooper Visiting Artist Lecture Series Summer Programs for High School and College Students Department of City and Regional Planning About the Department Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Department Faculty Student Work Public Engagement Clarence S. Stein Institute Faculty Directory Open Positions Student Work What are AAP Undergraduate Students Learning? Admissions Graduate Admissions Architecture Art City and Regional Planning Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Funding Opportunities Undergraduate Admissions Architecture Art Urban and Regional Studies Admissions Events Tuition and Financial Aid Application Deadlines Internal Transfer Interview Request Form Program Information Request Form Resources Featured For Faculty For Students Facilities and Spaces Fine Arts Library Studio Spaces Making and Production Galleries and Exhibitions Offices and Services Office of Student Services Computer Support and Services Business Service Center Office of Communications AAP COVID-19 Updates Art Studios and Classrooms Darkrooms and Print Media Facilities Fabrication Shops Student Activities and Organizations Supply Store Supply Store Price List Tool Checkout Policy Alumni Affairs Overview × Architecture Art Planning About At a Glance Anniversaries Who We Are+— Our Story Mission Leadership DEI + Belonging+— Goals and Initiatives College Organizations Office of Diversity + Inclusion Council for Diversity + Inclusion AAP Resources and Services University Resources The Dean's Letter Our Locations+— Ithaca AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Connect+— Contact Us Staff Directory Visit Us Admissions Graduate admissions+— Architecture Art City and Regional Planning Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Undergraduate admissions+— Architecture Art Urban and Regional Studies Tuition and Financial Aid Application Deadlines Apply Now Academics Architecture+— Graduate programs Undergraduate program Art+— MFA program Undergraduate program City and Regional Planning+— Graduate programs Undergraduate program AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Faculty+— Directory Open Positions Work Student work Request Program Info Research Cornell Mui Ho Center for Cities Labs Faculty Work Faculty Directory Alumni Affairs Support Get Involved Advisory Council News & Events Alumni Archive Alumni Resources Give a Gift News In the Media Features Conversations Faculty Work Announcements See All News Events Exhibitions Functions Lectures Symposia Workshops Beyond AAP See All Events Resources Featured+— For Faculty For Students Facilities and Spaces+— Fine Arts Library Studio Spaces Making and Production Galleries and Exhibitions Offices and services+— Office of Student Services Computer Support and Services Business Services Center Office of Communications Fabrication Shops COVID-19 Updates