Skip to content Search Cornell AAP Search Keyword Search Options Search AAP Cornell University Menu Search Home / Academics Academics › Department of Architecture Academics Department of Art Department of City and Regional Planning Department of Architecture About the Department Degree Program: Undergraduate Degree Programs: Graduate Department Faculty Elective Classes and Option Studios Introduction to Architecture Summer Student Work Student Work 2021 AAP NYCCornell in RomeOpen Positions 14766 Department of Architecture Architecture at Cornell's College of Architecture, Art, and Planning (AAP) is about creative and critical design practices that make lasting impact — balancing rigorous research and scholarship, responsibility for our natural and built environments, and reimagining the world at every scale to build a just and sustainable future for all. At Cornell Architecture we see design as a process of creative experimentation and iterative analysis, ensuring non-judgmental, holistic, and open-ended inquiry enabled by independent, critical thinking and bold thought leadership. Our undergraduate and graduate programs are designed to support interdisciplinary collaboration and provide an integrated foundation in global history, theory, structures, environmental systems, building technologies, visual representation, ensuring that our students are equipped with actionable knowledge and the agency to enact change. Read More About Our Mission Student Work Above: Left: "Swaying Udders" by Christopher Yi, (M.Arch. '20); Top Right: "CREOLE: A Spatial Language of Cultural Preservation, Transition, and Production" by Cornelius Tulloch (B.Arch. '21); Bottom Right: "Loop Column" by Justin Foo (B.Arch. '18) and Xinyu Yi (M.Arch '16). Academics › Department of Architecture Academics Department of Art Department of City and Regional Planning Department of Architecture About the Department Degree Program: Undergraduate Degree Programs: Graduate Department Faculty Elective Classes and Option Studios Introduction to Architecture Summer Student Work Student Work 2021 AAP NYCCornell in RomeOpen Positions 14766 Degree Programs Bachelor of Architecture (B.Arch.) Professional Master of Architecture (M.Arch.) Post-Professional Advanced Architectural Design (M.S. AAD) Computer Graphics (M.S.) Matter Design Computation (M.S.) History of Architecture and Urban Development (PH.D.) Highlights PLATE Publication Explore the most recent online issue of PLATE, a five-volume publication of spring 2020 student work & essays, edited by architecture Professor Andrea Simitch, the Stephen H. Weiss Presidential Fellow, & Visiting Critic Dillon Pranger (M.Arch. '15). Architecture Faculty Labs AAP labs catalyze imagination and innovation to address urgent challenges facing our cities and communities. Led by faculty with deep disciplinary and trans-disciplinary expertise, the labs forge networks and collaborations that push boundaries to advance a more resilient, sustainable, and just world. Cornell AAP Introduction to Architecture Summer 2022 Virtual Open House Learn more about the program and how to apply at this virtual open house. Deadline is May 6 for high school students and June 7 for college students. × Architecture at 150 Letter from the chair Caroline O'Donnell "From here, we not only look back and see 150 years of enduring tradition and constant evolution, but we also look around us for intersections and places to re-enter; to begin again, to disrupt, aspire, and act; to make change now and build a future on a new, or another understanding of what has been and what is. In other words, we have a collective invitation to a present that invites, or rather implores, us to build a more fair, sustainable, and meaningful world. Ultimately, to imagine what can be so that in another 150 years' time, future generations will benefit from having found out what that is." Read More Anniversary Lectures & Events March 8–22, 2022 Preston Thomas Memorial Symposium: Breaking Ground(s) Architecture at 150: Leading scholars and designers examine the interconnectedness of architecture with global ecologies, cultures, and future trajectories. Tuesday, March 8, 2022 Breaking Ground(s): Keynote The symposium will be opened with a keynote lecture by Timothy Ingold a social anthropologist and professor emeritus at the Univerisity of Aberdeen who works at the intersection of architecture, culture, and the natural environment. Thursday, March 10, 2022 Breaking Ground(s): GROUNDWORK The first of three sessions on Thursday, March 10, situates architecture deep within the context of land and the natural environment. Artist Sachem Sam George will give a welcome address titled, Words Before All Else. Thursday, March 17, 2022 Breaking Ground(s): FORMWORK The second session of the symposium will take place on Thursday, March 17, centering around connections between architecture practice and pedagogy at AAP, and speculating on the future of design and built environments. Tuesday, March 22, 2022 Breaking Ground(s): SCHOOLWORK The series will conclude with a conversation between Dean of USC Architecture Milton Curry, Harvard GSD Dean Sarah M. Whiting O, and AAP Dean J. Meejin Yoon. Friday, May 13, 2022 AAP Building the Future Architecture at 150 | Art at 100: View this recorded discussion of foundations, decades of evolution, and the future of architecture and art education at AAP. Friday, May 13, 2022 AAP College Barbecue Architecture at 150 | Art at 100: Come to a college-wide BBQ on Sibley Beach. June 6, 2022–September 2, 2022 Measures and Meaning Architecture at 150 | Art at 100: Visit an exhibition of selected works by the AAP community on view across the college's galleries, curated by Sean Anderson. Friday, June 10, 2022 Rubacha Featured Speakers Lecture Series: Talks with Peter Eisenman (B.Arch. '54) and Shelly Silver (B.F.A. '80) Architecture at 150 | Art at 100: Join us for this year's Rubacha Featured Speakers event with talks by Peter Eisenman (B.Arch. '54) and Shelly Silver (B.F.A. '80). Saturday, June 11, 2022 Cornell Reunion Olin Lecture with Olalekan Jeyifous (B.Arch. '99) Join us for this year's Olin Lecture event with Olalekan Jeyifous (B.Arch. '99). Anniversary Stories Friday, April 1, 2022 SCHOOLWORK: Reimagining Pedagogy for an Evolving World The 2022 Preston Thomas Memorial Symposium series Breaking Ground(s) concludes with "Schoolwork," three lectures and a dialogue between leading voices on architecture and design education today and in the future. Monday, March 14, 2022 FORMWORK Forges Diversity and Sustainability in Design The second session of the Breaking Ground(s) symposium, titled "FORMWORK," features three architects whose work brings diverse perspectives and social commitments to the practice of design and pedagogy. Friday, March 4, 2022 Laying GROUNDWORK: Relationality, Land, and Ways of Knowing Marking the Department of Architecture's 150th academic year, the first session of Breaking Ground(s), titled "GROUNDWORK," invites three leading voices who ask: How can we bring radically divergent histories of land and place into conversation? Thursday, February 24, 2022 Sharing History: The AAP Alumni Archive Generously supported by alumna Mui Ho (B.Arch.'66), the new AAP Alumni Archive is built on her belief in the importance of community connections across time. Friday, February 4, 2022 Architecture Breaks Ground at 150 Years Architecture at 150: Leading scholars and designers join the department in celebrating and challenging histories, and imagining possible futures. Anniversary Archive The AAP Alumni Archive The AAP Alumni Archive showcases a legacy of forward thinking and pedagogical innovation that inform both what we teach and how we teach creative practice and critical engagement across our disciplines. Students reached out to college graduates from the 1940s–80s to hear their stories and gather selections from their life's work. View Full Archive Our History Discover the history of the architecture department, from its initial 21 students to the present. Learn More Videos From Ordinary to Extraordinary L.P. Kwee Studios at Milstein Hall A Different Way of Thinking Unbuild Better: a Collegetown Case Study in Deconstruction × Student Work View All Student Work Ami Mehta B.Arch, 2021 Yuyang Zhang B.Arch, 2021 Caroline Christiano B. Arch. 2021 Benji Magin B.Arch, 2021 Elisa Medina-Jaudes B.Arch, 2021 Features View All Features Thursday, May 12, 2022 Migrations Grants Fund Worldwide Interdisciplinary Projects The Cornell Chronicle highlights awarded faculty research, including work by Architecture Professor Esra Akcan, Art Visiting Associate Professor Renate Ferro, and Architecture Assistant Professor Tao DuFour. Wednesday, April 27, 2022 Building Pathways: Lessons in Collaborative Instruction and Community Engaged Design This semester, a compelling conversation across architecture, landscape architecture, and planning has been made possible through the collaborative strategies of three AAP studios focused around work in Salamanca, New York. In the Media View All Mentions Wednesday, May 4, 2022 Winners of 2022 Architectural League Prize Respond to Design Complexities Rooted in Place The Architect's Newspaper reports that Architecture Assistant Professor Farzin Lotfi-Jam and Nathan Friedman (B.Arch. '09) are among the winners of this prestigious annual award, which recognizes visionary work by young practitioners. Tuesday, April 26, 2022 Founders of Dream the Combine and MOS Architects Among Winners of the 2022–23 Rome Prize The Architect's Newspaper reports the award of the American Academy's Rome Prize in Architecture to Assistant Professor Jennifer Newsom and Assistant Professor of the Practice Tom Carruthers, founding principals of Dream The Combine. Faculty Work View All Faculty Work Monday, March 14, 2022 Werewolf: The Architecture of Lunacy, Shapeshifting, and Material Metamorphosis A new book coedited by Associate Professor Caroline O'Donnell and José Ibarra (B.Arch. '16) explores an emerging but under-investigated branch of architecture that examines the transformation of form. Wednesday, February 16, 2022 Lily Chi: "Housing Agency" Architecture Professor Lily Chi's paper "Housing Agency" in ITA's themed issue "Ideas at Home" examines what incremental and adaptable design offers for contemporary design thinking more broadly. Tuesday, February 8, 2022 Abolish Human Bans: Intertwined Histories of Architecture In a new book, Professor Esra Akcan builds on her theory of architectural translation through the lens of architectural history to ask if architects can commit to peace rather than to dominant geopolitical regimes. Events View All Events Friday, June 10, 2022 Rubacha Featured Speakers Lecture Series: Talks with Peter Eisenman (B.Arch. '54) and Shelly Silver (B.F.A. '80) Architecture at 150 | Art at 100: Join us for this year's Rubacha Featured Speakers event with talks by Peter Eisenman (B.Arch. '54) and Shelly Silver (B.F.A. '80). Saturday, June 11, 2022 Cornell Reunion Olin Lecture with Olalekan Jeyifous (B.Arch. '99) Join us for this year's Olin Lecture event with Olalekan Jeyifous (B.Arch. '99). June 13–August 5, 2022 Design+Tech Initiative at Cornell Offering Summer Workshops Open to the public, this series of four weeklong workshops held on the Cornell Tech campus in New York City will provide intensive study of specialized subjects led by Cornell professors and researchers. Resources Elective Classes and Option Studios Architecture Studio Spaces Architecture Summer Program Cornell AAP is about acts of transformation. We advance research, scholarship, and critical and creative practices to build a more sustainable, just, and resilient world. Connect with AAP Visit Support Contact Explore Programs Architecture Art Planning Follow Us AAP Twitter AAP Facebook AAP LinkedIn AAP Instagram AAP Flickr Subscribe to AAP News Enter email address © 2022 Cornell University Cornell University College of Architecture, Art, and Planning, 129 Sibley Dome, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Sitemap About AAP At a Glance Who We Are Our Story Mission Diversity, Equity, Inclusion + Belonging The Dean's Letter Our Locations Ithaca AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Connect Contact Us Staff Directory News In the Media Features Conversations Faculty Work Announcements Events Exhibitions Functions Lectures Symposia Beyond AAP Workshops Academics AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Department of Architecture About the Department Degree Program: Undergraduate Degree Programs: Graduate Department Faculty Elective Classes and Option Studios Introduction to Architecture Summer Student Work Student Work 2021 Department of Art About the Department Undergraduate Program M.F.A. Program Department Faculty Department Events Student Work Teiger Mentor in the Arts John A. Cooper Visiting Artist Lecture Series Summer Programs for High School and College Students Department of City and Regional Planning About the Department Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Department Faculty Student Work Public Engagement Clarence S. Stein Institute Faculty Directory Open Positions Student Work What are AAP Undergraduate Students Learning? Admissions Graduate Admissions Architecture Art City and Regional Planning Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Funding Opportunities Undergraduate Admissions Architecture Art Urban and Regional Studies Admissions Events Tuition and Financial Aid Application Deadlines Internal Transfer Interview Request Form Program Information Request Form Resources Featured For Faculty For Students Facilities and Spaces Fine Arts Library Studio Spaces Making and Production Galleries and Exhibitions Offices and Services Office of Student Services Computer Support and Services Business Service Center Office of Communications AAP COVID-19 Updates Art Studios and Classrooms Darkrooms and Print Media Facilities Fabrication Shops Student Activities and Organizations Supply Store Supply Store Price List Tool Checkout Policy Alumni Affairs Overview × Architecture Art Planning About At a Glance Anniversaries Who We Are+— Our Story Mission Leadership DEI + Belonging+— Goals and Initiatives College Organizations Office of Diversity + Inclusion Council for Diversity + Inclusion AAP Resources and Services University Resources The Dean's Letter Our Locations+— Ithaca AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Connect+— Contact Us Staff Directory Visit Us Admissions Graduate admissions+— Architecture Art City and Regional Planning Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Undergraduate admissions+— Architecture Art Urban and Regional Studies Tuition and Financial Aid Application Deadlines Apply Now Academics Architecture+— Graduate programs Undergraduate program Art+— MFA program Undergraduate program City and Regional Planning+— Graduate programs Undergraduate program AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Faculty+— Directory Open Positions Work Student work Request Program Info Research Cornell Mui Ho Center for Cities Labs Faculty Work Faculty Directory Alumni Affairs Support Get Involved Advisory Council News & Events Alumni Archive Alumni Resources Give a Gift News In the Media Features Conversations Faculty Work Announcements See All News Events Exhibitions Functions Lectures Symposia Workshops Beyond AAP See All Events Resources Featured+— For Faculty For Students Facilities and Spaces+— Fine Arts Library Studio Spaces Making and Production Galleries and Exhibitions Offices and services+— Office of Student Services Computer Support and Services Business Services Center Office of Communications Fabrication Shops COVID-19 Updates