Skip to content Search Cornell AAP Search Keyword Search Options Search AAP Cornell University Menu Search AAP › Academics › Department of Art › Undergraduate Program › What are B.F.A. Students Learning? AAP Academics Department of Art Undergraduate Program B.F.A. Curriculum and Requirements B.F.A. Independent Study B.F.A. Studio Practice Areas Undergraduate Student Work What are B.F.A. Students Learning? Request More Information 1039 What are B.F.A. Students Learning? Through successful fulfillment of the bachelor of fine arts course of study, graduates will: Knowledge Develop knowledge of the history and specificity of diverse disciplinary methods and media practices Comprehend how individual modes of artistic practice are used for creative thought and sociocultural expression Understand the ways that contemporary art practice creatively and critically works between or across established disciplines Display familiarity with the diversity of traditions, languages, and societies in the contemporary global context, and with art in its multicultural dimensions Be able to interpret and engage with existing visual culture and media as a form of creative intelligence Practice Develop a discerning voice and confidence in one’s own artistic authorship, based on material, conceptual, and critical sensibility Create and sustain a body of work through self-directed research, experimentation, risk-taking, and reflective analysis Advance practices that can thrive either as an individual practice or within collaborative environments Professionalism Effectively communicate the intention of one’s work through its full formal realization Be publicly articulate in the evaluation of the work of peers as well as more established artists Successfully represent oneself to arts organizations, curators, publications, and graduate programs for the purpose of advancing professional and artistic goals Related Pages B.F.A. Student Work Undergraduate Admissions: Art Contact Department of Art 224 Tjaden Hall Phone: (607) 255-6730 Fax: (607) 255-3462 artdepartment@cornell.edu Monday–Friday, 8 a.m.–4:30 p.m. AAP › Academics › Department of Art › Undergraduate Program › What are B.F.A. Students Learning? AAP Academics Department of Art Undergraduate Program B.F.A. Curriculum and Requirements B.F.A. Independent Study B.F.A. Studio Practice Areas Undergraduate Student Work What are B.F.A. Students Learning? Request More Information 1039 Cornell AAP is about acts of transformation. We advance research, scholarship, and critical and creative practices to build a more sustainable, just, and resilient world. Connect with AAP Visit Support Contact Explore Programs Architecture Art Planning Follow Us AAP Twitter AAP Facebook AAP LinkedIn AAP Instagram AAP Flickr Subscribe to AAP News Enter email address © 2022 Cornell University Cornell University College of Architecture, Art, and Planning, 129 Sibley Dome, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Sitemap About AAP At a Glance Who We Are Our Story Mission Diversity, Equity, Inclusion + Belonging The Dean's Letter Our Locations Ithaca AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Connect Contact Us Staff Directory News In the Media Features Conversations Faculty Work Announcements Events Exhibitions Functions Lectures Symposia Beyond AAP Workshops Academics AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Department of Architecture About the Department Degree Program: Undergraduate Degree Programs: Graduate Department Faculty Elective Classes and Option Studios Introduction to Architecture Summer Student Work Student Work 2021 Department of Art About the Department Undergraduate Program M.F.A. Program Department Faculty Department Events Student Work Teiger Mentor in the Arts John A. Cooper Visiting Artist Lecture Series Summer Programs for High School and College Students Department of City and Regional Planning About the Department Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Department Faculty Student Work Public Engagement Clarence S. Stein Institute Faculty Directory Open Positions Student Work What are AAP Undergraduate Students Learning? Admissions Graduate Admissions Architecture Art City and Regional Planning Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Funding Opportunities Undergraduate Admissions Architecture Art Urban and Regional Studies Admissions Events Tuition and Financial Aid Application Deadlines Internal Transfer Interview Request Form Program Information Request Form Resources Featured For Faculty For Students Facilities and Spaces Fine Arts Library Studio Spaces Making and Production Galleries and Exhibitions Offices and Services Office of Student Services Computer Support and Services Business Service Center Office of Communications AAP COVID-19 Updates Art Studios and Classrooms Darkrooms and Print Media Facilities Fabrication Shops Student Activities and Organizations Supply Store Supply Store Price List Tool Checkout Policy Alumni Affairs Overview × Architecture Art Planning About At a Glance Anniversaries Who We Are+— Our Story Mission Leadership DEI + Belonging+— Goals and Initiatives College Organizations Office of Diversity + Inclusion Council for Diversity + Inclusion AAP Resources and Services University Resources The Dean's Letter Our Locations+— Ithaca AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Connect+— Contact Us Staff Directory Visit Us Admissions Graduate admissions+— Architecture Art City and Regional Planning Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Undergraduate admissions+— Architecture Art Urban and Regional Studies Tuition and Financial Aid Application Deadlines Apply Now Academics Architecture+— Graduate programs Undergraduate program Art+— MFA program Undergraduate program City and Regional Planning+— Graduate programs Undergraduate program AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Faculty+— Directory Open Positions Work Student work Request Program Info Research Cornell Mui Ho Center for Cities Labs Faculty Work Faculty Directory Alumni Affairs Support Get Involved Advisory Council News & Events Alumni Archive Alumni Resources Give a Gift News In the Media Features Conversations Faculty Work Announcements See All News Events Exhibitions Functions Lectures Symposia Workshops Beyond AAP See All Events Resources Featured+— For Faculty For Students Facilities and Spaces+— Fine Arts Library Studio Spaces Making and Production Galleries and Exhibitions Offices and services+— Office of Student Services Computer Support and Services Business Services Center Office of Communications Fabrication Shops COVID-19 Updates