Skip to content Search Cornell AAP Search Keyword Search Options Search AAP Cornell University Menu Search AAP › Academics › Faculty › Directory AAP Academics Faculty Directory Open Positions 946 Mildred Warner Mildred Warner Professor Curriculum Vitae (CV) Department City and Regional Planning Contact 215 W. Sibley Hall (607) 255-6816 mwarner@cornell.edu Mildred Warner's Website Cities across the world are faced with the challenges of fiscal stress, service delivery restructuring, and the imperative to promote economic development. Mildred Warner is an international expert on restructuring local government services, how to plan for more child and age-friendly cities, and how to promote environmental sustainability at the local level. Decentralization has elevated the importance of local government worldwide, but social protection is challenged by devolution, privatization, and fiscal crisis. Cities must pick up the slack and Warner's research explores how. She has authored more than 200 journal articles, book chapters, and professional reports, and has received major research grants from government and foundations. Warner works closely with local government, planners, policy analysts, economic developers, and union leaders both in the U.S. and abroad. She received her B.A in history from Oberlin College, and her M.S. in agricultural economics and Ph.D. in development sociology from Cornell. Academic Research/Specialty Areas Community-based planning and development Economic development Gender- and age-based planning Infrastructure planning International studies in planning Regional science Social policy Sustainability Economic development planning and public finance Urban and regional governance Environmental policy and planning Urban inequality Urban poverty Urban water and sanitation services Rural development Related Pages Restructuring Local Government Cornell CALS Department of Global Development Faculty Profile Related News White House Puts Out a Playbook to Help Rural Areas Get Infrastructure Funding Small Towns/Big Trends: Demographic Insights on Living, Working and Thriving in Rural America New Study Explicitly Links Protection of Water Access with Lower COVID-19 Infection and Death Rates U.S. Local Government Response to Fiscal Crisis: Austerity Urbanism or Pragmatic Municipalism? Covid Is Forcing America To Fix Its Water Supply Classes (Selected) CRP 4120/6120 Devolution, Privatization, and New Public ManagementLocal governments across the world face challenges of infrastructure and service delivery in the context of fiscal constraints. Innovations often involve devolution and privatization. Scholarly research debates whether these market approaches promote efficiency, regional equity, local economic growth and citizen voice. Students will review the theoretical bases for these claims and the empirical evidence from around the world. Students will write theory papers as well as engage in group work on practical policy questions facing cities. CRP 5074 Economic and Community Development WorkshopEconomic and Community Development workshop courses focus on the economics of neighborhoods, cities, and regions with the intent of producing more informed and effective economic development policy. Topics of study include, among others, the application of analytical tools needed to produce first-rate economic development plans, the special needs of excluded, poor and segregated communities, use of quantitative and qualitative methods to address social inequalities, the politics of planning, relationships between economic development and community development. CRP 7201 Ph.D. Research DesignThis course provides a comprehensive review of the research and writing process to help Ph.D. students develop a strategy for writing a research proposal and journal article. The course provides a comprehensive review of the research design process and will result in each student developing his/her dissertation proposal. The course focuses on articulating research objectives, managing the research process, ethics, funding and professional development as a scholar. The course also explores how to write journal articles (journal selection, review process) and how to position your work in your academic field. Awards, Grants, and Fellowships (Selected) "Margarita McCoy award for the Advancement of Women in Planning," from the Faculty Women's Interest Group of the Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning (November, 2020) Excellence in Research Award from the Rural Sociological Society (August, 2019) "Local Government, Inequality and Rural Wellbeing," USDA National Institute of Food and Agriculture," AFRI Competitive Program, Agriculture Economics and Rural Communities Grant (April, 2021–2024) "Spatial Inequality, Labor Protections and the Role of State and Local Government," Cornell Center for the Study of Inequality, $47,210 (June 2020–June, 2022) "Promoting Age Friendly Communities," Engaged Cornell Impact Grant, (2020–2022) Exhibitions and Presentations (Selected) US Local Government Response to Fiscal Crisis: Austerity Urbanism or Pragmatic Municipalism? Section on Chinese Public Administration (SCPA) of American Society for Public Administration (ASPA) (July 6, 2021) Planning, Public Health, and Responses to COVID-19, Webinar, College of Art, Architecture and Planning, Cornell University (September 28, 2020) Driving Innovation to Create Aging-friendly Communities, APA Webinar (June 17, 2020) Publications (Selected) Warner, Mildred E. and Xue Zhang. 2021. "Social Safety Nets and COVID-19 Stay Home Orders across US States: A Comparative Policy Analysis," Journal of Comparative Policy Analysis, 23(2): 176-190. https://doi.org/10.1080/13876988.2021.1874243. Warner, Mildred E. and Zhang, Xue. 2021. "Productivity Divergence: State Policy, Corporate Capture and Labor Power," Cambridge Journal of Regions, Economy, and Society for special issue on "Rethinking the Political Economy of Place." 14(1): 51-68. https://doi.org/10.1093/cjres/rsaa040 Warner, Mildred E., Austin Aldag and Yunji Kim 2020. "Pragmatic Municipalism: US Local Government Responses to Fiscal Stress," Public Administration Review, forthcoming. https://doi.org/10.1111/puar.13196 Turesky, Marisa and Warner, Mildred E. (2020). "Gender Dynamics in the Planning Workplace: The Importance of Women in Management," Journal of the American Planning Association, 86(2): 157-170. https://doi.org/10.1080/01944363.2019.1691041 Liao, Lu, Warner, Mildred E. and Homsy, George C. 2020. "When Do Plans Matter? Tracking Changes in Local Government Sustainability Actions from 2010 to 2015," Journal of the American Planning Association, 86:1, 60-74. https://doi.org/10.1080/01944363.2019.1667262 Complete list of Mildred Warner's publications Faculty Index AAP › Academics › Faculty › Directory AAP Academics Faculty Directory Open Positions 946 Cornell AAP is about acts of transformation. We advance research, scholarship, and critical and creative practices to build a more sustainable, just, and resilient world. Connect with AAP Visit Support Contact Explore Programs Architecture Art Planning Follow Us AAP Twitter AAP Facebook AAP LinkedIn AAP Instagram AAP Flickr Subscribe to AAP News Enter email address © 2022 Cornell University Cornell University College of Architecture, Art, and Planning, 129 Sibley Dome, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Sitemap About AAP At a Glance Who We Are Our Story Mission Diversity, Equity, Inclusion + Belonging The Dean's Letter Our Locations Ithaca AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Connect Contact Us Staff Directory News In the Media Features Conversations Faculty Work Announcements Events Exhibitions Functions Lectures Symposia Beyond AAP Workshops Academics AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Department of Architecture About the Department Degree Program: Undergraduate Degree Programs: Graduate Department Faculty Elective Classes and Option Studios Introduction to Architecture Summer Student Work Student Work 2021 Department of Art About the Department Undergraduate Program M.F.A. Program Department Faculty Department Events Student Work Teiger Mentor in the Arts John A. Cooper Visiting Artist Lecture Series Summer Programs for High School and College Students Department of City and Regional Planning About the Department Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Department Faculty Student Work Public Engagement Clarence S. Stein Institute Faculty Directory Open Positions Student Work What are AAP Undergraduate Students Learning? Admissions Graduate Admissions Architecture Art City and Regional Planning Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Funding Opportunities Undergraduate Admissions Architecture Art Urban and Regional Studies Admissions Events Tuition and Financial Aid Application Deadlines Internal Transfer Interview Request Form Program Information Request Form Resources Featured For Faculty For Students Facilities and Spaces Fine Arts Library Studio Spaces Making and Production Galleries and Exhibitions Offices and Services Office of Student Services Computer Support and Services Business Service Center Office of Communications AAP COVID-19 Updates Art Studios and Classrooms Darkrooms and Print Media Facilities Fabrication Shops Student Activities and Organizations Supply Store Supply Store Price List Tool Checkout Policy Alumni Affairs Overview × Architecture Art Planning About At a Glance Anniversaries Who We Are+— Our Story Mission Leadership DEI + Belonging+— Goals and Initiatives College Organizations Office of Diversity + Inclusion Council for Diversity + Inclusion AAP Resources and Services University Resources The Dean's Letter Our Locations+— Ithaca AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Connect+— Contact Us Staff Directory Visit Us Admissions Graduate admissions+— Architecture Art City and Regional Planning Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Undergraduate admissions+— Architecture Art Urban and Regional Studies Tuition and Financial Aid Application Deadlines Apply Now Academics Architecture+— Graduate programs Undergraduate program Art+— MFA program Undergraduate program City and Regional Planning+— Graduate programs Undergraduate program AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Faculty+— Directory Open Positions Work Student work Request Program Info Research Cornell Mui Ho Center for Cities Labs Faculty Work Faculty Directory Alumni Affairs Support Get Involved Advisory Council News & Events Alumni Archive Alumni Resources Give a Gift News In the Media Features Conversations Faculty Work Announcements See All News Events Exhibitions Functions Lectures Symposia Workshops Beyond AAP See All Events Resources Featured+— For Faculty For Students Facilities and Spaces+— Fine Arts Library Studio Spaces Making and Production Galleries and Exhibitions Offices and services+— Office of Student Services Computer Support and Services Business Services Center Office of Communications Fabrication Shops COVID-19 Updates