Skip to content Search Cornell AAP Search Keyword Search Options Search AAP Cornell University Menu Search Home / Academics Academics › Department of City and Regional Planning Academics Department of Art Department of City and Regional Planning About the Department Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Faculty Student Work Public Engagement Clarence S. Stein Institute Department of Architecture Open Positions 14251 Department of City and Regional Planning MidTown Cleveland: Neighborhood Vision Plan; a collage analysis of infrastructure and residential life in MidTown from the Spring 2020 Urban Design Workshop led by Lecturer Mitch Glass. The Department of City and Regional Planning (CRP) is home to leading programs in planning, regional science, historic preservation planning, and urban and regional studies. Cornell University has been offering coursework in city and regional planning since 1935, and offering degrees in planning since the 1940s. Over the decades, distinguished alumni and faculty have played an extraordinary role in shaping communities worldwide. Today, CRP is a vibrant home to students and faculty from across the globe undertaking cutting-edge research and engaged practice aimed at advancing the discipline and changing the world. CRP offers an undergraduate degree in urban and regional studies, and both master's and doctoral degrees in regional planning, historic preservation planning, and regional science. We share the leadership of the Baker Program in Real Estate at Cornell and collaborate with Cornell Tech in New York City. Our students can take courses in CRP programs in Ithaca, New York City, and Rome; and pursue their research around the world. As a unit within a New York State land-grant institution, we are by nature deeply engaged with communities locally, regionally, and beyond. Academics › Department of City and Regional Planning Academics Department of Art Department of City and Regional Planning About the Department Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Faculty Student Work Public Engagement Clarence S. Stein Institute Department of Architecture Open Positions 14251 Degree Programs Planning (M.R.P, Ph.D.) Urban and Regional Studies (B.S.) Regional Science (M.A., M.S., Ph.D.) Historic Preservation Planning (M.A., Ph.D.) Dual Degrees with Landscape Architecture and Real Estate (M.R.P. / M.L.A.) Student Takeovers @cornellaap Gianni Valenti (M.R.P. '23) Natane Deruytter (M.R.P. '22) × Features View all Features Tuesday, May 10, 2022 National Zoning Atlas Launched to Make America's Patchwork of Codes Accessible and Comprehensible Professor of City and Regional Planning Sara Bronin's zoning atlas initiative is a first-of-its-kind effort to translate and standardize zoning codes across the U.S. into a single, accessible online resource. Wednesday, April 27, 2022 Building Pathways: Lessons in Collaborative Instruction and Community Engaged Design This semester, a compelling conversation across architecture, landscape architecture, and planning has been made possible through the collaborative strategies of three AAP studios focused around work in Salamanca, New York. In the Media View All Mentions Tuesday, May 24, 2022 Priceless Sculptures Are 'Literally Being Chipped Away' The New York Times includes CRP Professor Thomas Campanella's perspective on the impact of Bronx apartment complex planners Gilmore D. Clarke and Michael Rapuano on American spaces. Tuesday, May 24, 2022 Universal Basic Automobility The Baffler cites CRP Assistant Professor Nicholas Klein's research exploring the transformative impact of car ownership for people living in poverty. Student Work View All Student Work Sauvanithi Yupho M.R.P. 2020 Isabel Ling B.S. URS 2019 AbdulRahman Al-Mana B.S. URS 2020 Sophia O'Neill B.S. URS 2020 Group Project Villa Gordiani: A Neighborhood Study Faculty Work View All Faculty Work Tuesday, April 26, 2022 What is Critical Urbanism? Urban Research as Pedagogy CRP Chair Sophie Oldfield is an editor of this innovative toolkit exploring how alternative urban futures can be imagined by addressing the historical injustices and global entanglements that shape the urban present. Tuesday, February 22, 2022 Resident-Owned Resilience: Can Cooperative Land Ownership Enable Transformative Climate Adaptation for Manufactured Housing Communities? In Housing Policy Debate, CRP Assistant Professor Linda Shi and co-authors say research is needed to assess how resident-owned models of manufactured housing communities impact hazard vulnerability. CRP Blog View All Blogs April 13, 2022 Kellen Cooks (B.S. URS '23) Awarded Cornell Council for the Arts Grant Kellen Cooks (B.S. URS '23) has been awarded a Cornell Council of the Arts grant for his Dreaming-on-Hudson project, selected for the Cornell Biennial. MARCH 16, 2022 Cornell Team Receives Honorable Mention at ULI Hines Urban Design Competition A team guided by CRP Lecturer Mitch Glass, comprising of students from four different graduate programs received an honorable mention at the 2022 ULI Hines Urban Design Competition. FEBRUARY 14, 2022 Waishan Qiu Furthers Regional Science Research with CRP Awards Regional Science Ph.D. student Waishan Qiu received the Portman Family Graduate Award (2021) and the Kermit C. & Janice I. Parsons Scholarship (2019) to support his research. Cornell AAP is about acts of transformation. We advance research, scholarship, and critical and creative practices to build a more sustainable, just, and resilient world. Connect with AAP Visit Support Contact Explore Programs Architecture Art Planning Follow Us AAP Twitter AAP Facebook AAP LinkedIn AAP Instagram AAP Flickr Subscribe to AAP News Enter email address © 2022 Cornell University Cornell University College of Architecture, Art, and Planning, 129 Sibley Dome, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 Land Acknowledgment Web Accessibility Sitemap About AAP At a Glance Who We Are Our Story Mission Diversity, Equity, Inclusion + Belonging The Dean's Letter Our Locations Ithaca AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Connect Contact Us Staff Directory News In the Media Features Conversations Faculty Work Announcements Events Exhibitions Functions Lectures Symposia Beyond AAP Workshops Academics AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Department of Architecture About the Department Degree Program: Undergraduate Degree Programs: Graduate Department Faculty Elective Classes and Option Studios Introduction to Architecture Summer Student Work Student Work 2021 Department of Art About the Department Undergraduate Program M.F.A. Program Department Faculty Department Events Student Work Teiger Mentor in the Arts John A. Cooper Visiting Artist Lecture Series Summer Programs for High School and College Students Department of City and Regional Planning About the Department Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Department Faculty Student Work Public Engagement Clarence S. Stein Institute Faculty Directory Open Positions Student Work What are AAP Undergraduate Students Learning? Admissions Graduate Admissions Architecture Art City and Regional Planning Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Funding Opportunities Undergraduate Admissions Architecture Art Urban and Regional Studies Admissions Events Tuition and Financial Aid Application Deadlines Internal Transfer Interview Request Form Program Information Request Form Resources Featured For Faculty For Students Facilities and Spaces Fine Arts Library Studio Spaces Making and Production Galleries and Exhibitions Offices and Services Office of Student Services Computer Support and Services Business Service Center Office of Communications AAP COVID-19 Updates Art Studios and Classrooms Darkrooms and Print Media Facilities Fabrication Shops Student Activities and Organizations Supply Store Supply Store Price List Tool Checkout Policy Alumni Affairs Overview × Architecture Art Planning About At a Glance Anniversaries Who We Are+— Our Story Mission Leadership DEI + Belonging+— Goals and Initiatives College Organizations Office of Diversity + Inclusion Council for Diversity + Inclusion AAP Resources and Services University Resources The Dean's Letter Our Locations+— Ithaca AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Connect+— Contact Us Staff Directory Visit Us Admissions Graduate admissions+— Architecture Art City and Regional Planning Tuition and Funding Application Deadlines Undergraduate admissions+— Architecture Art Urban and Regional Studies Tuition and Financial Aid Application Deadlines Apply Now Academics Architecture+— Graduate programs Undergraduate program Art+— MFA program Undergraduate program City and Regional Planning+— Graduate programs Undergraduate program AAP NYC Cornell in Rome Faculty+— Directory Open Positions Work Student work Request Program Info Research Cornell Mui Ho Center for Cities Labs Faculty Work Faculty Directory Alumni Affairs Support Get Involved Advisory Council News & Events Alumni Archive Alumni Resources Give a Gift News In the Media Features Conversations Faculty Work Announcements See All News Events Exhibitions Functions Lectures Symposia Workshops Beyond AAP See All Events Resources Featured+— For Faculty For Students Facilities and Spaces+— Fine Arts Library Studio Spaces Making and Production Galleries and Exhibitions Offices and services+— Office of Student Services Computer Support and Services Business Services Center Office of Communications Fabrication Shops COVID-19 Updates