Skip to main content < Penn COVID-19 Response > University of Pennsylvania Toggle Navigation Toggle Search Accessibility Menu Jump to… Main Content Search Main Navigation Utility Navigation Main menu Men of Color Women of Color MLK Events About Utility Navigation A-Z Calendar Directory Maps Offices & Services Penn Home Webmail Back to Accessibility Menu Search Search African-American Resource Center AARC is a resource center dedicated to enhancing the quality of life of faculty, staff, and students at the University of Pennsylvania with a particular focus on those of African descent. Any person associated with the university may use our free and confidential services as needed. Our services include advocacy, counseling, information & referral, workshops and informational sessions, and many advertised events throughout the year. You may also email us at aarc@upenn.edu to inquire about our services and the wonderful programs we offer. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Symposium Visit MLK Symposium About African-American Resource Center Visit About AARC Men of Color at Penn Visit Men of Color at Penn Women of Color at Penn Visit Women of Color at Penn AARC-logo-400x250.jpg Events Our services include workshops and informational sessions, and many advertised events throughout the year. You can call (215) 898-0104, come by AARC @ 3643 Locust Walk, or check us out on Facebook to find out about upcoming programs and events. Notice: "We value academic freedom and open expression. The views and opinions expressed by presenters are those of the speakers during programs listed on this calendar and do not necessarily reflect those of the University of Pennsylvania or the African-American Resource Center." View Events Follow AARC! Address 3643 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104-3199 Telephone Numbers Tel: (215) 898-0104 Fax: (215) 573-9117 Email aarc@upenn.edu Directions Find us on the map University of Pennsylvania ©2022 University of Pennsylvania Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement