Skip to content Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Therapeutics News Contact Us Search About Us Research Graduate Program You are here Home > Research > Abate-Shen Lab Abate-Shen Lab About Dr. Abate-Shen Our Members Research Publications Join Our Team Contact Us Abate-Shen Lab Principal Investigator Cory Abate-Shen, PhD Welcome to the Abate-Shen Laboratory! Our research seeks to understand how normal mechanisms of transcriptional regulation and cellular differentiation are coopted in cancer. To address these broad questions, our research, which is focused mainly on genitourinary cancers, encompasses mechanism-based studies, analyses of genetically-engineered mouse models (GEMMs), and state-of-the-art systems biology approaches. In our studies on prostate cancer, we have developed an extensive series of GEMMs that represent the full spectrum of prostate cancer phenotypes, ranging from pre-invasive to invasive cancer, including castration-resistance, neuroendocrine differentiation, and metastasis. Capitalizing on these GEMMs, we have generated genome-wide transcriptional regulatory networks to pursue cross-species computational analyses of mouse and human prostate cancer, which have led to the identification of master regulators of cancer progression, biomarkers of disease outcome, and regulators of drug response and resistance. In our studies of bladder cancer, we have developed novel approaches to target gene recombination specifically to bladder urothelium, which have led to the generation of a new series of mouse models of muscle invasive bladder cancer. These have enabled co-clinical trials that are impacting the treatment of patients with high-risk bladder cancer. Research The Abate-Shen Lab has a longstanding interest in understanding the relationship between the processes that control normal development and those that go awry in cancer. Research Our Members Meet the staff, postdocs, fellows, and students that make up the Abate-Shen lab. Our Members Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Research Graduate Degree Program Contact Us Columbia University Irving Medical Center Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Therapeutics 630 West 168th Street VP&S 7th Floor, Room 7-401 New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top