Show Navigation Skip to Content University of Southern California About USC Facts and Figures Administration Faculty Honors History Policies and Core Documents Search for: Search Policies and Core Documents Role and Mission of USC Evolving out of a comprehensive strategic planning process undertaken in the early 1990s, USC’s role and mission statement outlines the university’s mission and role in Southern California and beyond. USC Integrity and Accountability Code Our Integrity and Accountability Code is anchored to USC’s Unifying Values and aligns our everyday decisions with the institution’s mission and compliance obligations. The Code is a vital resource for all faculty and staff throughout USC, including those at Keck Medicine at USC and the Keck School of Medicine. Links to relevant policies, additional resources, and helpful tools are embedded in the digital document. University Policies USC’s policies* have been established to create a safe and productive academic and work environment. All university employees and students are expected to be familiar with these policies and to follow them. * Any violations of the university’s policies and/or codes of ethics or conduct will be thoroughly investigated upon reporting. Investigations of complaints are centralized and monitored through the Office of Professionalism and Ethics, available at report.usc.edu. University Bylaws The bylaws of the University of Southern California outline the university’s governance structure and duties of the university’s Board of Trustees. Strategic Plan Since 1994, USC’s growth has been guided by a series of strategic plans. At the time it was developed, each new plan outlined a vision of the university’s future and became a focal point for conversations involving the entire Trojan Family. Today, USC’s previous strategic plans help provide continuity with the past while inspiring future innovation. USC 2018 Strategic Plan: Answering the Call USC 2011 Strategic Vision: Matching Deeds to Ambition USC 2004 Strategic Plan Four-Year Report on the USC 1994 Strategic Plan USC 1994 Strategic Plan USC Communications / Notice of Non-Discrimination / Privacy Notice