Skip to content Accolades #1 in Colorado Colorado State University has been named Colorado’s top university in Washington Monthly’s annual assessment of colleges and universities. CSU stood 91st nationally among all universities and 54th among public institutions in Washington Monthly’s 2018 College Guide, which rewards “smart, well-run colleges that enroll students from all walks of life and helps them earn a high-quality diploma at an affordable price.” The ranking highlights colleges that instill a sense of service and public obligation while producing groundbreaking research. Colorado State University was also ranked the No. 1 college in Colorado in a 2018 analysis by Schools.com. The Online MBA at CSU’s College of Business was recognized by U.S. News and World Report in its 2018 rankings as the No. 1 Online MBA in Colorado. Among the best in the nation Colorado State University ranked fifth nationally among public universities and No. 1 in Colorado in the 2019 Military Times “Best for Vets” rankings. CSU’s Professional Veterinary Medicine Program, its vet school, is currently ranked No. 3 in the nation, based on the most recent ranking by U.S. News and World Report; it has held a spot among the top three vet schools for at least two decades. The professional program in the Department of Occupational Therapy in CSU’s College of Health and Human Sciences holds the No. 6 spot among similar programs nationwide, based on the most recent ranking by U.S. News and World Report. Colorado State University ranked No. 4 in the 2018 “Cool Schools” ranking from the Sierra Club’s official magazine, Sierra. For the second year in a row, CSU was also ranked first for public engagement in the 2018 Sustainable Campus Index, a publication of the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education. Colorado State University ranked No. 6 in the nation among environmentally responsible colleges, according to Princeton Review. The education services company surveyed hundreds of four-year colleges concerning the schools’ commitments to the environment and sustainability and chose 399 to include in its annual guide to green colleges. The Financial Times ranked the CSU College of Business Online MBA program No. 10 in the United States. Colorado State University ranks in the top 10 on the Peace Corps’ annual list of Top Volunteer-Producing College and Universities. The list places CSU at No. 10 among large American colleges and universities. The number of CSU alumni serving in the Peace Corps rose from 54 in 2017 to an all-time high 58 in 2018. CSU was No. 70 among the top public universities in the country, according to the 2019 U.S. News & World Report Best Colleges rankings. For the second year in a row, the magazine included CSU on its list of “Best Value Schools,” based on academic quality and cost of attendance. Colorado State University’s undergraduate engineering program rose to No. 67 in U.S. News & World Report’s 2019 Best Colleges. U.S. News & World Report also placed Colorado State on its list of “A-plus” schools for students who want to be part of a university with a broad, engaged student body while displaying their individuality and seriousness of purpose. Colorado State University graduate programs in the sciences were on the rise in U.S. News and World Report’s 2019 rankings of the nation’s best graduate schools. In the highest jump, CSU’s biology program rose 13 spots to rank No. 62 in the nation. The Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering climbed 11 spots to be ranked No. 56. CSU’s earth sciences program — known as the Department of Geosciences — also rose several places to No. 68 in U.S. News and World Report’s 2019 rankings of the nation’s best graduate schools. The department, in the Warner College of Natural Resources, offers master’s and doctoral degrees. The Geosciences Program is internationally recognized for its strong emphasis on field-oriented studies in nonrenewable resources and the earth’s surface. Faculty and students in the Department of Geosciences have conducted research on all seven continents. Several other CSU programs were ranked in the top 100 by U.S. News & World Report’s 2019 Best Graduate School rankings. Colorado State University was highlighted in Princeton Review’s “The Best 384 Colleges” for 2019. The Princeton Review tallied the rankings for the 2019 edition based on its surveys of 138,000 students. CSU students said CSU is “an institution that is determined to engage and challenge its students, preparing them for postgraduate life beyond the University.” Despite being a large public research university, CSU does a “phenomenal” job of fostering a “community feel.” Students guarantee you won’t “feel like just a number” here. Many students tell us that they are drawn to Colorado’s “amazing” science and engineering programs and “outstanding” business school. And they really appreciate CSU’s commitment to “sustainability.” Colorado State University was also featured among Forbes’ America’s Top Colleges 2018. CSU ranked among the top 100 public universities in the country, at No. 72 and comes in at No. 46 among universities in the West. Among the best in the world The Center for World University Rankings has placed Colorado State University in the top 1 percent of universities worldwide. CSU ranked No. 244 out of 18,000 universities globally in the 2018-19 CWUR World University Rankings, the largest academic ranking of global universities. CWUR uses seven objective and robust indicators to rank the world’s universities without relying on surveys and university data submissions: quality of education; alumni employment; quality of faculty; research output; quality publications; influence; and, citations. The 2018 Financial Times Online MBA ranked the College of Business’s Online MBA program at Colorado State University No. 15 in the world. It was the second consecutive year the program ranked in the top 20 worldwide. Colleges Agricultural Sciences Business Health and Human Sciences Liberal Arts Morgan Library Natural Sciences Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering Warner College of Natural Resources Schools & Programs Graduate School International Programs School of Biomedical Engineering School of Education School of Global Environmental Sustainability School of Music, Theatre and Dance School of Public Health School of Social Work CSU System CSU-Pueblo CSU-Global Campus CSU Denver Center CSU System Apply to CSU Accessibility Equal Opportunity Disclaimer Privacy Search CSU © 2022 Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523 USA