Skip to content Your browser does not support the video tag. Please upgrade your browser. About CSU Colorado State University is one of the nation’s top public research universities and an institution on the rise. In the last decade, CSU has produced record enrollment, built on all-time highs in student diversity and student success; record fundraising far outpacing ambitious goals; groundbreaking research driven by a highly productive faculty; a campus revitalized by a transformational building campaign; and, perhaps most important, an unrivaled learning environment where nine of 10 recent graduates say they would choose CSU again and rate their education as excellent. The CSU System It’s one thing to be located in a community, another entirely to be part of it. To know its attributes, its successes, and its challenges. To be a dedicated partner in seeking solutions that will best position communities and their citizens for the future. The Colorado State University System and its three campuses are just such partners for the state of Colorado. Our programs and our alumni are ingrained in communities across the state, joining every day with fellow citizens, policy makers, businesses, and organizations to spark innovation, hone ideas, and improve economic vibrancy and quality of life for the people of Colorado. At the heart of our work is a profound mission: providing access to educational excellence and opportunities that arise from it. $1.2B raised in current campaign 10 years record enrollment $1.6B invested in campus improvements $398.5M research expenditures Rams Succeed And success looks a little bit different to every incoming student, every new graduate, every established alum. At Colorado State, we create the environment, learning resources, and experiences students need to realize their visions. Our grads leave campus with everything they need to achieve their dreams. Culture Colorado State University has a campus culture that is driven by a desire always to do better and a vision to be the best place to learn, work, and discover. Our Principles of Community – Inclusion, Integrity, Respect, Service, and Social Justice – reflect our core values and support CSU’s mission and vision of access, research, teaching, service, and engagement. Each member of our community has a responsibility to uphold these principles when engaging with one another and acting on behalf of the University. Location Consistently included as one of the best places to live and work in the country, Fort Collins provides the breathtaking backdrop and home to Colorado State University. Located on the northern end of Colorado’s economically vibrant and environmentally beautiful Front Range, FoCo boasts major employers including Hewlett-Packard, Woodward, New Belgium Brewing, and Otterbox, along with parks and trails galore. Fort Collins also is a cultural hub for arts and entertainment that includes CSU’s world-class performing arts center, the Downtown Creative District, and a burgeoning live music scene bolstered by some of the best music festivals in the country. Athletics Colorado State's athletics programs are enjoying overall success in competition and in the classroom that rivals or exceeds the most successful periods in school history. And thanks to an unprecedented investment, student-athletes compete in some of the finest facilities anywhere, including the 41,000-capacity Canvas Stadium on campus, opened in 2017. The Rams compete in nine women’s and five men’s sports in the Mountain West Conference, and CSU is one of fewer than 16 institutions without a major NCAA infraction. "CSU provides our community with a high quality of life, a sense of place, a skilled workforce, and a hub of innovation. ... CSU’s presence in the community is central to Fort Collins being a world-class community." - Wade Troxell, Fort Collins Mayor “CSU helped me find an internship that provided my first experience in research, giving me the tools necessary to work in this field. The internship allowed me to complete a research study from beginning to end, which I presented at two professional conferences.” - Emily Jensen, ’13, Environmental Health Professional Research Assistant, Children’s Hospital Colorado "Simply put, CSU is one of the state’s most important economic growth engines and a cornerstone of Colorado’s economic future." - Economic and Fiscal Impact Study: Colorado State University "I couldn’t have asked for better preparation for this next step in my life. CSU is an amazing institution, brimming with individuals and opportunities to support each student in their next step." - Kellen Wittkop, ’13, summa cum laude, Economics/English Harvard Law School, '16 Editor-in-Chief of the Harvard Journal on Legislation Associate, Davis Graham & Stubbs LLP "CSU is the sole reason why I do what I do today. Through my classes, the mentors I had, and the organizations I was a part of, I was able to truly learn more about myself and my role enabling positive social change within my community." - Josef Canaria, '13, Political Science/Communications Studies Program Assistant, Louisiana Foundation Against Sexual Assault "I wasn’t a dancer, I wasn’t an actor, I wasn’t a philosopher, I wasn’t a singer, but I became all of those things because of my time at CSU." - Stephen “Brer Rabbit” Brackett, '06, Philosophy Flobots Vocalist "Our company is drawn to CSU because of the University’s strong academic reputation... CSU graduates have great technical skills, but more importantly, they have the soft skills – communication, grit, social intelligence, and leadership – that are so important for our business." - Sean Tucker, Manager, Hewlett-Packard Academics Institution As a leading public research university, Colorado State has the breadth of programs to address the wide range of issues facing society. As a land-grant university, we have the focus to pragmatically deal with these issues and develop the education, research, and outreach programs to make our world a better place. People In a million ways, every single day, the people of Colorado State University embrace and carry out our important mission, and bring passion, expertise, and real knowledge to our duty to our state, nation, and world. Accolades CSU ranks among the top universities in the world across a wide range of disciplines. From U.S. News & World Report to The Financial Times to Sierra Magazine to Military Times, CSU is lauded among the best educational institutions in the state, nation, and world. See some of CSU’s recent top accolades. Faculty Our faculty have a strong history of gaining national and international acclaim. In May 2019, Dr. Susan VandeWoude, associate dean for research in the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, was elected to the National Academy of Sciences, a top honor in recognition of her distinguished and continuing achievements in original research. She joined University Distinguished Professor Diana Wall, director of the School of Global Environmental Sustainability and a professor in the Department of Biology, who was elected to the prestigious organization in 2018. The total number of NAS members from Colorado State University is now 11. Research CSU is a research powerhouse consistently counted among the top performing research universities in the nation – each year for the past decade posting more than $300 million in expenditures. A leader in areas such as atmospheric science, energy, water, veterinary and translational medicine, natural resources, chemistry, occupational therapy, and anthropology, and with ongoing and traditional strength in areas such as engineering and food production, CSU is clearly established as a premier research institution. Students At its core, CSU is an institution fully committed to student success, and to creating a learning environment that produces successful graduates, no matter their background. CSU has earned a reputation to envy for its student success initiatives, and has been selected by APLU as one of five colleges and universities to serve as national models. Extension CSU Extension’s programs serve every Colorado county, providing skills to help Coloradans solve problems and live well. Extension consistently scores 4-plus (out of 5) from county commissioners. Designated an Innovation & Economic Prosperity University by the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities, CSU was further recognized by APLU in 2018 with the IEP Universities Talent award as “an exemplary and innovative leader among higher education institutions.” First Generation As a student-centered institution, CSU was the first university in the nation in 1984 to offer First Generation scholarships, providing support and nurturing to students who were the first in their families to attend college. Today, true to our land-grant heritage, this focus still informs us, and 1 in 4 of our students is a First Generation scholar. In the News Bloomberg - Craft Beer Could Be the Model for the Future of the U.S. Livestock Industry CNN - An Antarctic ice shelf is 'singing' and it's creepy New York Times Magazine - Poem: Still life Forbes - Former Colorado Governor Bill Ritter Continues To Influence Clean Energy Public Radio International - How is 'new NAFTA' different? A trade expert explains USA Today - Atlantic hurricane season forecast changes for the better with fewer storms predicted PBS News Hour - How noise pollution from humans is wreaking havoc on U.S. wildlife New York Times - Hurricane Michael Made Landfall. We’re Tracking the Storm and Its Impact National Geographic - ‘Extreme Conservation’ in the Most Hostile Places on Earth Inside Higher Ed - Colleges Use Technology to Help Students Manage Mental Health Forbes - Green Pioneer: Colorado State University Practices What It Teaches About Sustainability National Public Radio - Large Methane Leaks Threaten Perception Of 'Clean' Natural Gas' Resources Alumni Association The Alumni Association is about the past, the present, and the future of Colorado State University. Shared Governance Shared governance at CSU is designed to engage the entire University community through direct and representative participation in planning and decision-making. SOURCE A central hub for all Colorado State University news produced by our award-winning campus network of communications and public relations professionals. The Conversation Colorado State University is a participating institution with The Conversation, an international platform for distribution of our faculty’s research to a general audience. Team Social CSU’s award-winning Team Social manages the University’s key social platforms including: Facebook (165K+ followers), Twitter (63K+ followers), LinkedIn (236K+ followers) and Instagram (83K+ followers). Colleges Agricultural Sciences Business Health and Human Sciences Liberal Arts Morgan Library Natural Sciences Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering Warner College of Natural Resources Schools & Programs Graduate School International Programs School of Biomedical Engineering School of Education School of Global Environmental Sustainability School of Music, Theatre and Dance School of Public Health School of Social Work CSU System CSU-Pueblo CSU-Global Campus CSU Denver Center CSU System Apply to CSU Accessibility Equal Opportunity Disclaimer Privacy Search CSU © 2022 Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523 USA