Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University LAS Study Abroad Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search ISUAbroad Make A Gift Home About Contact Student Ambassadors Sign-up to be a Program Ambassador Program Search Language Programs Language and Other Programs Faculty-Led Programs Thanksgiving, Winter, & Spring Break Programs Other Study Abroad Options Explore How to Get Started Application Process Know Before You Go Frequently Asked Questions Financing Financial Aid Scholarships LAS Study Abroad Scholarships $750 LAS Summer Global Seminar Award Passport Award Resources Budgeting and Money Management Health and Safety Preparing to Travel Support While Abroad Returning to Campus Faculty and Staff Academic Advisor Resources Departmental Services Faculty-Led Travel Program Director Handbook Pre-Payments Taking a Family Member? Pre-Departure Keep Your Trip Expenses Organized Allowable Expenses and Receipts Post-Trip Tips and Tricks Tools/Resources for Program Directors Creating a Program Timeline Home 1 2 3 4 5 Travel with LAS Study Abroad LAS Study Abroad provides international study, work, and service opportunities for all Iowa State students. We support faculty and staff to facilitate learning opportunities abroad, and partner with organizations to offer a breadth of program options. Through our partnerships, we provide short-term, semester-length, and academic year programs abroad. Interested in learning more about LAS Study Abroad programs? Navigate to our program offering page or schedule an appointment to meet with us! Schedule an appointment with Taylor Schedule an appointment with Mercedes Find your next adventure Winter / Spring Break Summer Fall / Spring / Year-Round Calendar No upcoming events found. Deadlines August 1 Aug 1 Deadline to Apply- Culture and Economic Diversification in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) Add to calendar 2022-08-01 00:00:00 2022-08-01 00:00:00 America/Chicago Deadline to Apply- Culture and Economic Diversification in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) Contact us Mercedes Serracin Taylor Stoeckler College of Liberal Arts and Sciences LAS Study Abroad LAS Study Abroad 341 Catt Hall 2224 Osborn Dr Ames, IA 50011-4009 lasstudyabroad@iastate.edu 515-294-1162 phone Facebook Instagram Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...