Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Department of Applied Behavioral Science myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Mission History Department Newsletter Academics Select to follow link Applied Behavioral Science Degrees Select to follow link Undergraduate Select to follow link Requirements Certifications Specialty Areas Select to follow link Adults with Disabilities Basic Research and Conceptual Foundations Community Health and Development Early Childhood Education Organizational Behavior Management Awards and Funding Undergraduate Director Minor Master's Degree Select to follow link Requirements Admission & Program FAQs Certifications Awards and Funding Graduate Certificate in Community Health and Development Graduate Staff Graduate Student Organization Online Master of Arts in Applied Behavioral Science Select to follow link Requirements Admission & Program FAQs Certifications Faculty, Online Programs Ph.D. in Behavioral Psychology Select to follow link Admission & Program FAQs Doctorate in Behavioral Psychology Degree Requirements Joint Ph.D-M.P.H. Courses Online Programs Select to follow link ABAI-verified Course Sequence in Behavior Analysis Registered Behavior Technician (RBT) Online Preparation Course Admission Select to follow link Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Graduate Admission FAQs Online Master's Admission Certificate in Behavior Analysis Research Select to follow link Research Areas Research Groups and Training Centers People Select to follow link Faculty Staff Adjunct, Courtesy, and Emeritus Faculty Lecturers Alumni & Friends Select to follow link Alumni Giving Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Resources Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Department of Applied Behavioral Science Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Department of Applied Behavioral Science Applied Behavior Science Statement on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion In the Department of Applied Behavioral Science, we understand that an equitable and safe multiracial, multiethnic, and multicultural environment produces innovative thinking, research, and learning. We seek to provide an environment for learning and working where differences are valued and each person in the ABS community is supported and offered an equitable opportunity – irrespective of national origin, age, sex, health status, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, or disability – to achieve their academic and professional goals. These efforts are led by our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee and are supported by our faculty and staff. Welcome to the Department of Applied Behavioral Science We are a premier undergraduate and graduate training program with a rich 50+-year history. We have 19 regular faculty members, over 60 adjunct and courtesy faculty members, over 200 undergraduate majors, and approximately 50 graduate students. Seven of our faculty members hold joint appointments in the Psychology Department as members of an independent graduate training program – the Clinical Child Psychology Program. We have several respected and high-quality graduate programs, including an online and campus master’s degree in behavior analysis, a doctoral degree in behavioral psychology, a joint program with master’s in public health and doctorate in behavioral psychology, an online BACB-verified course sequence, and a graduate certificate in community health and development. Moreover, our master’s and doctoral programs are accredited by the Association for Behavior Analysis International. Please feel free to click around our site to learn more about our faculty, students, and programs. If you cannot find the information you’re seeking, contact our department at absc@ku.edu or call the department directly at 785-864-4840. Respectfully, Florence D. DiGennaro Reed, Ph.D., BCBA-D Associate Professor and Chairperson Graduate Application Fee Waivers If you are a current McNair scholar, you are eligible for an application fee waiver and can mark as such on the application. The waiver will be applied to your application once you have marked your status. A limited number of KU application fee waivers are available for non-McNair Scholar applicants. These are provided on a first-come first-serve basis, and are not guaranteed due to the limited availability of funds. Please email Dr. Florence DiGennaro Reed if you meet any of the below criteria and would like to request the application fee waiver: Applicants who are both first-generation and income-limited college students,* * The term “Income-limited” is defined by the U.S. Department of Education as having a household taxable income for the preceding year of less than 150 percent of the poverty level amount. Applicants who are members of underrepresented racial/ethnic groups in higher education (excluding international applicants), Applicants who are active members of the U.S. Armed Forces or are honorably discharged veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces, and Applicants who have served for two or more years in the Peace Corps, AmeriCorps, Teach for America, or a similar governmental or NGO service program. Questions about the Graduate Program? If you have questions about our graduate program, please contact Dr. Derek Reed, Director of Graduate Studies, at dreed@ku.edu Email Dr. Reed 4001 Dole Human Development Center 1000 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 absc@ku.edu 785-864-4840 facebook twitter linkedin Graduate Admission FAQs Graduate Program FAQs Online Master of Arts in Applied Behavioral Science Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.