Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Research Opportunities Predoctoral Fellowships Alumni and Placements Current Predoctoral Fellows Postdoctoral Fellowships Summer Research Internship Summer Intern Placements Past Summer Research Projects 2019 Projects 2018 Projects 2017 Projects 2016 Projects 2015 Projects 2014 Projects CUBS Program CDBE Award More Postdoctoral Fellowships Postdoctoral Fellows are a vital part of the Columbia Business School research community. Each year we offer offer unique opportunities for talented scientists to join the CBS team for fellowships that last one to three years. As a postdoc at Columbia Business School, you will receive training from world-class professors who directly apply their research to the multiple challenges facing businesses and their leaders. We are proud of the high impact collaborations the School fosters among our established business school faculty and the next generation of business researchers. Faculty Expertise The faculty at Columbia Business School have an intellectual home in one of six divisions: Accounting; Decision, Risk & Operations; Economics; Finance; Management; and Marketing. Typically, postdocs work with a faculty member or team of faculty from a division. Life in NYC and the Columbia University Community Since its founding, Columbia Business School has maintained a symbiotic relationship with New York City. With thousands of multinational companies, a diverse real estate market, and the major stock, bond, and commodity exchanges, New York is a living laboratory for our community. It is the nexus for business research and the implementation of ideas that impact industries. Postdoc fellows find the city the ideal setting for research, with practitioners nearby available to discuss research ideas and an array of industries willing to grant access to their corporate data. The University’s Office of Postdoctoral Affairs sponsors social events and professional development workshops that are designed to address the unique needs of postdocs. The office serves as a repository for valuable information; undertakes initiatives to increase the visibility of postdocs; and advocates for resources that enhance postdoctoral training and promote an inclusive and supportive environment. As a member of the Columba community, you have access to endless resources. This includes more than a dozen libraries and the training workshops they provide. You have access to a phenomenal health services office, initiatives sponsored by the Religious Life Office, and innovative programming that the Miller Theatre offers in collaboration with the School of the Arts. Because of Columbia's convenient location and deep ties to the community at large, the opportunities for postdocs are limitless. Diversity New York City attracts people who value diversity, and our postdocs are no exception: They represent a varied range of backgrounds and interests. Our postdocs experience Columbia Business School, the University, and the city each in their own ways while creating a cohesive, tight-knit community. For more information about our commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, please visit our resources offered by the Office of DEI. Eligibility Applicants should have a PhD in a relevant discipline and a strong publication record or research pipeline. Available Positions To learn more about postdoc positions that are available at the School, please check the Columbia University academic career site, as all positions must be posted there. When searching, enter “Columbia Business School” for School. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats