Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MBA Academics Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Student Life Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Campus The Neighborhood Explore NYC Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Review Process Events Class Visit Program Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Tuition & Financial Aid Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees More Deferred Enrollment Program MBA Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team About The Columbia Business School Deferred Enrollment Program offers undergraduate students the opportunity to gain a few years of work experience with a guarantee of admission to Columbia's highly selective MBA program, and the flexibility to begin the full-time program two to five years after college graduation. Columbia is looking for future leaders from all academic and personal backgrounds to maintain the diverse and supportive community for which Columbia is known. Apply to Columbia Business School Apply during your senior year in college or during a subsequent graduate program. When reviewing your application, the admissions committee will look at your academic background, any work experience or internships that you have, and your engagement in activities outside the classroom. Click here for additional FAQs regarding the Deferred Enrollment Program. Gain Work Experience After completing your current studies and before starting your MBA at Columbia Business School, enter the workforce for two, three, four, or five years. Use the time to explore what drives you, knowing that you have the flexibility to start the MBA program when the time is right for you. Access Columbia As an admitted student you are part of the Columbia Community, and will have access to select conferences, events, and School-wide resources to enhance your academic experience and to help you throughout your career. Start Your MBA When you are ready to start the MBA program, send us a letter of intent, specifying whether you want to enroll in January (16-month program) or August (traditional 20-month program featuring a summer internship.) You will have the option to choose the program that fits your personal and professional goals. Fellowships and Scholarships Once you send your letter of intent to start the MBA program, you will be considered for merit-based fellowships and be able to apply for need-based scholarships. Find more information on fellowships and scholarships. Application Process Who is eligible for the Deferred Enrollment Program Students graduating during the current academic year from a bachelor's degree program. (Example: Those who graduate between September 1, 2021 and August 31, 2022 are eligible to apply for the 2022 Deferred Enrollment Program admissions cycle) Students completing a graduate degree program. Candidates must have started the graduate degree program directly after completing their undergraduate degree to be eligible for the Deferred Enrollment Program. Students enrolled in Ph.D. programs, law school, or medical school are not eligible. Please apply through the standard MBA or EMBA application process. Application Requirements Online application Academic transcript Standardized test scores (GMAT, Executive Assessment, or GRE) Current resume (feel free to include a note on any post undergraduate job offers) One letter of recommendation from a professor, mentor, internship supervisor or employer. We ask recommenders to consider the following when writing their recommendation (recommended limit - 1000 words): Please share how you feel the applicant will contribute to the Columbia Business School classroom and community. Two short answer questions Why are you interested in obtaining a Columbia MBA in the future? (maximum 300 words) Who is a leader you admire, and why? (maximum 300 words) Candidates will be notified if they are invited to interview with Columbia Business School. Fees and Deposits There is no application fee for students who are currently enrolled in an undergraduate or eligible graduate-level program. Once admitted, students will be required to submit a $500 non-refundable deposit two weeks after admission. Subsequent deferral continuation fees will be due each year that you defer. The year that you decide to matriculate you will also be required to verify your work experience during the deferral period and submit deposits for your entry-point. Click here for additional FAQs regarding the Deferred Enrollment Program. Important Dates The Deferred Enrollment application will open in November 2021 and will close on April 15, 2022. Completed applications will begin the review process after April 15, 2022 Interview invitations will be sent on or before April 30, 2022, or within two weeks of receiving all required application materials Final decisions will be released on a rolling basis and within two weeks of your interview being conducted 2021 Deferred Enrollment Class Profile Admitted 216 GMAT Range 540-790 GPA Range 3.11-4.0 Number of Schools Represented 80 Number of Countries Represented 23 Contact Contact us to learn more about the Deferred Enrollment Program. Email: [email protected] The global COVID-19 pandemic of 2020 presented institutions of higher education with challenges in teaching and learning, as well as in the assessment of academic performance. As a consequence of these challenges, Columbia University affirms the following principle: The University’s graduate and professional schools, as well as their respective admissions committees, will take into account the important disruptions caused by the COVID-19 outbreak when reviewing student transcripts and other admissions materials as part of their customary practice of performing holistic reviews of individual applications or dossiers. Specifically, we will respect decisions made by institutions or individuals regarding the adoption of Pass/Fail or similar grading options during the period in question. The Provost and University Deans adopted this principle to ensure that no applicants are disadvantaged by policy decisions made by their colleges/universities as a result of this unprecedented public health event. Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application Application Deadlines January 2023 Entry Final September 28, 2022 August 2023 Entry Early September 28, 2022 Merit Fellowship January 11, 2023 Final April 5, 2023 Deferred Enrollment Program Final April 15, 2022 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats