Skip to main content College of Design Graphic Design | College of Design Menu Close Home Accreditation Faculty and Staff Our Alumni Alumni in the Profession Academics Undergraduate Admissions Bachelor of Graphic Design (BGD) BGD Courses and Curriculum BGD Studios Master of Graphic Design (MGD) Master of Graphic Design Admissions MGD Courses and Curriculum MGD Admissions and Program FAQs Research and Engagement Sponsored Studios Faculty Research Activity Students Student Work Curricular and Extracurricular Opportunities Yes And: MGD Student Blog And So: Graduate Journal So Then: MGD Student Projects Then Finally: MGD Final Projects MGD Bulletin News and Events Give to Graphic Design Home Home Accreditation Faculty and Staff Our Alumni Alumni in the Profession Academics Academics Undergraduate Admissions Bachelor of Graphic Design (BGD) BGD Courses and Curriculum BGD Studios Master of Graphic Design (MGD) Master of Graphic Design Admissions MGD Courses and Curriculum MGD Admissions and Program FAQs Research and Engagement Research and Engagement Sponsored Studios Faculty Research Activity Students Students Student Work Curricular and Extracurricular Opportunities Yes And: MGD Student Blog And So: Graduate Journal So Then: MGD Student Projects Then Finally: MGD Final Projects MGD Bulletin News and Events News and Events Give to Graphic Design Graphic Design The best graphic design is informative, engaging, and accessible, empowering the people who interact with it. The work of graphic design facilitates people’s interaction with information through digital and physical interfaces. Graphic designers envision the brands, interfaces, artifacts, typography, and messages they create as parts of larger systems, effectively representing and communicating networks of services, experiences, and products. They employ user experience design methods (UX) to ensure that software, websites, print media, and environments improve individuals’ lives. The best graphic design is informative, engaging, and accessible, empowering the people who interact with it. Questions? Tsai Lu Liu Department Head of Graphic Design and Industrial Design Email: tsailu_liu@ncsu.edu featured news See More News When Graphic Design Meets Big Tech: Red Hat Sponsored Studio Tackles Autonomous Vehicles Graphic design students recently partnered with Red Hat to create solutions for a world dominated by autonomous vehicles. Students then had to design for a variety of human factors such as family needs, career specializations and security concerns. Congratulations, Class of 2022! We asked our spring graduates for some thoughts on their time in the College of Design. Below, hear from them in their own words. Designlife Magazine: Drones, Automated Vehicles, 3D Ceramics and More The spring 2022 issue of Designlife magazine is here! Our feature story celebrates the end of the Think and Do the Extraordinary campaign, and most notably, the many faces that not only made it our most successful campaign to date, but shaped the college and its direction, laying the groundwork for years to come. Bachelor of Graphic Design Read more Master of Graphic Design Read more Graphic designers: Communicate information and messages through typography, images, symbols, physical materials, and digital platforms Visualize, prototype, and produce artifacts and interactions such as books, magazines, identity systems, product packaging, signage, websites, applications, and data visualizations Employ human-centered research methods to understand and inform design decisions Develop strategies and systems for making services more accessible to users Collaborate with other experts, such as ethnographers, software engineers, psychologists, and computer programmers The Graphic Design faculty teach these skills as they encourage and help students develop and expand their creative abilities. Collaborative Sponsored Studios ncstate_mgd 117 ncstate_mgd View May 31 Open A sneak peek of some of the interface and data visualization experiments exploring data ethics that students completed this year as part of the SAS x NCSU collaboration led by Professor Jarrett Fuller. ... ncstate_mgd View May 26 Open Prof Helen Armstrong will speak about the impact of AI upon design practice tomorrow at MASS: The 2nd International Media and Society Symposium. ... ncstate_mgd View May 25 Open Students in Professor Jarrett Fuller’s Publishing and Distribution class wrote and produced video essays on topics ranging from pop art to The Great British Baking Show to tables. Here are 30 second clips from videos by Ngoc Nguyen, Elizabeth Gabriel, and Joel Weiss. ... ncstate_mgd View May 11 Open "We are always surrounded by and in interaction with technology in various forms; we ourselves become data points in the large data economy." For And So "Beyond the Bounds," Ashamsa Mathew devised Personafy, a designer tool for crafting well-informed user experiences. Check out Ashamsa's work @fangsdesigns ... ncstate_mgd View May 9 Open End of semester salon. That’s a wrap! Happy summer MGDs! ... ncstate_mgd View May 8 Open What MGD students are thinking: "How can we take missed opportunities and turn them into something new? I’ll figure it out over summer." Riley Walman (MGD '23) Read more on https://academics.design.ncsu.edu/yesand/ ... ncstate_mgd View May 6 Open Graduation! Congrats 2022 MGDs!! We will miss you. ... ncstate_mgd View Apr 30 Open @gonzalescrisp you're an inspiration to us all, guiding us with your knowledge and experience! 💯 Congratulations on completing such a successful career! Wishing you a very happy retirement. 🤍 ... ncstate_mgd View Apr 26 Open Congratulations on finishing Final Thesis Presentations! Investigation, experiments, interviews and a whole lot of coffee went into these projects Well done to all the MGDs 🎉🎉🎉 you did it! ... ncstate_mgd View Apr 22 Open White board appreciation time. What goes on in a thesis student's mind? @_weekend_worrier 's thoughts are all over the studio. ... ncstate_mgd View Apr 20 Open NCSU + IBM students gear up for their final playback and gala this Friday. So excited to see what the teams have come up with. ... ncstate_mgd View Apr 20 Open "Within online platforms, participants experience their community in many different ways and will engage in a variety of activities." And So volume two: Certainly Uncertain. This issue explored the ways uncertainty in design creates opportunities to engage in the exploration of invisible problems. MGD Bree McMahon investigated building tools to facilitate action for online communities. Read her full piece at https://buff.ly/3rpzPX4 ... Load More Follow on Instagram See Student Work See more examples of student work here: Department of Graphic Design Student Work College of Design Home NC State University College of Design 50 Pullen Rd Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.8302 CAMPUS MAP Contact Us Accessibility Accreditation Diversity Academics Update my Information Newsletter Signup Giving Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.