Skip to main content Search for: Ex: How do I apply to Providence College? Menu Apply Visit Give Coronavirus Information & Updates Parents & Families Alumni Media MY-PC Events About Admission Undergraduate Continuing Education Graduate Programs Academics Catholic & Dominican Diversity Student Life Athletics Close menu Academics Unlock Your Potential Since we opened our doors in 1917, our commitment to academic excellence has been at the heart of the Providence College experience. That tradition continues to this day. It defines our signature Development of Western Civilization Program, strengthens our distinctive Core Curriculum, and fosters close collaboration between faculty and students that inspires innovation and achievement. At PC, your classes will be challenging and combined with research, scholarship, service, and internship opportunities, you’ll gain the experience and perspective you’ll need to succeed after PC. Majors & Minors Liberal Arts Core Curriculum Development of Western Civilization Academic Catalogs PC Global Undergraduate Graduate Continuing Education Phillips Memorial Library Undergraduate Information Providence College is a primarily undergraduate, liberal arts, Catholic institution of higher education. Committed to fostering academic excellence through the sciences and humanities, the College provides a variety of opportunities for intellectual, social, moral, and spiritual growth in a supportive environment. PC’s traditional undergraduate academic programs are housed in three schools: School of Arts & Sciences School of Business School of Professional Studies Graduate Information At Providence College, you’ll have the opportunity to immerse yourself in a distinctive program of study led by committed teacher-scholars who are experts in their fields. You’ll learn the skills necessary to thrive in a competitive job market and have the support of a passionate alumni network every step of the way. You’ll consider diverse perspectives, tackle challenging philosophical and spiritual questions, and learn what it means to truly be a part of a community. Graduate study at PC doesn’t just prepare you for a successful career; it prepares you for a successful life. Graduate Programs Continuing Education Information Providence College’s School of Continuing Education provides academic programs designed to meet the educational needs of adult students. The School of Continuing Education offers eight bachelor’s degree programs, two associate’s degree programs, and eight certificate programs. SCE also offers two masters degree leading to certification—the joint degree in Urban Education and Teacher Certification and the joint degree in Mathematics and Teacher Certification. School of Continuing Education Phillips Memorial Library The Phillips Memorial Library provides resources, services, technology, and spaces in support of the College’s intellectual mission. With more than 100,000 square feet of space, the library features individual, small, and large group spaces; quiet-zone and deep-quiet-zone spaces; Windows and Apple desktops, printers, and scanners; classroom space for research and primary source education sessions; and flexible, technology-enhanced classrooms. The library also provides access to extensive research resources in print and digital formats, including journals, books, databases, and multimedia. Phillips Memorial Library ENGAGED LEARNING Undergraduate Research At PC, students can work side-by-side with experts from a range of disciplines. This experience gives our students the confidence, expertise, and résumé-building credentials that set them apart in the workplace and in graduate school. Undergraduate Research Study Abroad Through our study abroad programs, you can study the New Testament in Rome, explore international business in Shanghai, brush up on Shakespeare in London, and so much more. Nearly half of all PC students study abroad each year. Center for Global Education Internships The Center for Career Education and Professional Development offers programs and services that help students identify their strengths, discover academic interests, and achieve educational, internship, and career goals. Center for Career Education and Professional Development One-Stop Providence College Quick Links Academic Calendars Office of Academic Affairs Dean of Graduate & Undergraduate Studies Office of the Registrar Office of the Bursar Academic Advising Office of Academic Services Department Chairs & Program Directors Providence College’s Learning Spaces Liberal Arts Honors Program Health Professions Advising Military Science & ROTC Providence Alliance for Catholic Teachers (PACT) Rev. Robert Randall Distinguished Professorship in Christian Culture The Center for Teaching Excellence Sponsored Projects & Research Compliance 1 Cunningham Square Providence, RI 02918 USA Tel: +1.401.865.1000 Contact PC Support PC Emergency Information Student Consumer Information Academics Majors, Minors, Programs Academic Calendar Library People & Places Offices & Services Directory People Directory Maps & Directions Visit Facts & Info Fast Facts Jobs Mass Schedule Annual Security Report Title IX & Sexual Harassment Copyright ©2022. Providence College Terms of Use | Privacy Policy If you are having trouble viewing or accessing these web pages, please email our Web Accessibility Coordinator Page maintained by: PC Web Services | About This Site