Thank you for using Academic Commons. Please help us improve our website by taking a brief survey. Skip to main content Columbia University Libraries Academic Commons search for Search About Explore Log In Upload Your Research Academic Commons 2017 Reports The Russian and Early Soviet Sheet Music Collection, The Columbia University Libraries: An Introduction Khait, Julia; Davis, Robert H. The Rare Book & Manuscript Library of the Columbia University Libraries holds one of the single-largest collections of Russian sheet music in North America, particularly for the period circa 1924-1929. Recently, a substantial portion of this collection was fully digitized, and is available for viewing on the Libraries' website. This collection offers both visual and aural delights, reflecting a period of great creative excitement, political tension, and relative freedom of expression paralleling the economic liberalization of the New Economic Policy, introduced by Lenin at the Tenth Party Congress in March of 1921, and drawing to a close with the consolidation of power by Stalin in 1928. This Introduction provides background on both the significant visual element of the collection—in the form of decorative wrappers—and of course the music and lyrics encountered in the scores themselves. Geographic Areas Russia Soviet Union Subjects Sheet music Music title pages Music Arts, Russian Arts, Soviet Academic libraries Libraries--Special collections Columbia University. Libraries Files Russian and Early Soviet Music Collection 12 19 17.pdf application/pdf 537 KB Download File More About This Work Academic Units Libraries Published Here January 12, 2018 Download DOI Copy DOI to clipboard About | FAQ | Policies | Developers| Credits ac@columbia.edu Academic Commons provides global access to research and scholarship produced at Columbia University, Barnard College, Teachers College, Union Theological Seminary and Jewish Theological Seminary. Academic Commons is managed by the Columbia University Libraries.