Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success University Academic Support Centers myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Student Employment People Select to follow link University Academic Support Center Leadership Academic Learning Center Staff Academic Retention and Engagement Center Staff KU Writing Center Staff Native American Initiatives Staff Student Access Center Staff Resources Navigate To Academic Success Student Access Center Academic Learning Center KU Writing Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success University Academic Support Centers Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search The University Academic Support Centers University Academic Support Centers provides a variety of academic support programs designed to support learning for all KU students. Our Vision To help students become empowered, independent learners through data-informed programming and exceptional staff and peer support. Work For Us! Student Employment Opportunities! Click The Apply Now Button For More Info On Working For University Academic Support Centers. APPLY HERE! An Overview of our Academic Support Centers and Programs. Native American Initiatives We strive to create an atmosphere of Native American self-determination in partnership with communities that value Native perspectives, while empowering Native student success in the broader spectrum of family, tribe, and community. At NAI, we provide students holistic support, mentoring, resources, professional development opportunities, cultural and social programming through celebrating Native American identities, cultural representation, and supporting success through a community of Native students, faculty, and staff on KU's campus and beyond. Learn More Haskell/KU Exchange Indigenous Studies Program FNSA FNSA Powwow and Indigenous Cultures Festival The Academic Learning Center We offer many services and programs to assist students in their academic success and to enhance their collegiate experience at KU. Choose from individual consultations, group workshops or general or course-specific academic assistance, by appointment or on a walk-in basis. Learn More Resources ALC - Supplemental Instruction ALC - Tutoring Services ALC - Academic Consultations ALC - Workshops/Presentations ALC - Academic Success Guides The Academic Retention and Engagement Center We support our students through dedicated retention initiatives designed to facilitate a successful transition to KU and the ongoing support needed to help students accomplish their goals. Learn More Resources Hawklink KC Scholars Multicultural Scholars Program Peer Mentoring Program Options Hispanic Development Fund Scholars The KU Writing Center Writers need feedback, sounding boards, and other people to coach them while they compose. That's where the KU Writing Center comes in. It's a place for productive talk about writing, with trained peer consultants to help you brainstorm, draft, and revise your projects. Learn More Resources KUWC - Schedule Appointment KUWC - Hours and Locations KUWC - Writing Consulations KUWC - Writing Guides KUWC - FAQ's The Student Access Center The Student Access Center assists students with disabilities by facilitating accommodations that remove barriers to their academic success. We authorize reasonable and appropriate accommodations for qualified students with documented disabilities, assist students in self-advocacy, educate the University of Kansas about disabilities, and ensure compliance with federal and state law. Learn More Resources SAC - Apply Here SAC - Access Online SAC - Instructor Login SAC - Student Center SAC - Family Center SAC - Instructor Center Donate to UASC Help UASC support Jayhawks! Your gifts can help UASC provide tutoring, academic coaching, support for students with disabilities, and more. Donate Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 uasc@ku.edu 785-864-4064 facebook twitter Academic Success Academic Learning Center Academic Retention and Engagement Center KU Writing Center Student Access Center Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.