Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MBA Academics Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Student Life Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Campus The Neighborhood Explore NYC Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Review Process Events Class Visit Program Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Tuition & Financial Aid Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees More Academic Support MBA Curriculum Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements The Advising and Academic Success team within the Office of Student Affairs (OSA) provides guidance on academic resources and academic advisingadvisement for all MBA students. They oversee programs such as English language and Core Course tutoring and partner with other offices such as Counseling and Psychological Services, Office of Disability Services, and Alice! Health Promotion to provide wellness programming and holistic support to students. As a team they work across the School to improve the student experience both inside and outside the classroom. Academic advising is a collaborative, supportive, respectful, and solutions-oriented partnership between students and academic advisers. Academic Advisors empower CBS students to act on their academic goals, enrollment planning, and course selections by sharing resources and guidance to help students make informed academic and life decisions. OSA uses the Starfish platform to facilitate communication and resource-sharing between students and their various club and academic advisers. As a central resource, it enables your administrative network at CBS to provide informed and aligned support toward your success at the School. All meetings with peer tutors and academic advisors are scheduled on Starfish. Below are just some of the many resources available to you so you can succeed at CBS: Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services English Language Tutoring Financial Aid International Students & Scholars Office (ISSO) Office of Disability Services (ODS) The Office of Students Affairs, located in Uris 105, is always happy to answer questions. For more information, visit the OSA site. Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application Application Deadlines January 2023 Entry Final September 28, 2022 August 2023 Entry Early September 28, 2022 Merit Fellowship January 11, 2023 Final April 5, 2023 Deferred Enrollment Program Final April 15, 2022 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats