Skip to main content College of Design Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State About Academics Architecture Art + Design Explore the College of Design Design Studies Graphic Design Industrial Design Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning PhD in Design Doctor of Design Admissions Research Student Enrichment Alumni Giving News Alumni and students create experimental immersive light experience at Crabtree To help celebrate 50 years of community engagement, Crabtree partnered with award-winning team, Mike Cuales [MID ‘00] and Robin Vuchnich [MGD ‘14], to create an experimental immersive light experience for guests while supporting local artists, including students from NC State’s College of Design. The works were created using different techniques and technologies from virtual reality painting, procedurally generated art, artificial intelligence (AI), computer vision and neural networks. Extraordinary Difference: Dr. Derek Ham Ham’s work in virtual reality is helping him teach NC State students the importance of intellectual curiosity and inclusivity like never before. With help from the Think and Do the Extraordinary Campaign, the artist and educator can push the academic envelope by enabling people to experience key moments in the Civil Rights Movement firsthand. Nothing is Perfect: Meditation, Virtual Reality and Juvenile Justice Most students detained at San Francisco's Juvenile Hall have faced extreme hardships beginning at a very young age. So how can we aid the healing process through design? In Derek Ham's ADN 560 studio, students were tasked with developing virtual worlds tailored to the specific needs and issues faced by incarcerated youth. Art + Design Apply Visit the College Apply Visit the College Art + Design teaches designers to give form to emotions and ideas through medium, composition, and storytelling. Department Head Derek Ham Department Head of Art + Design T: (919) 515-8549 E: daham@ncsu.edu Overview Undergraduate Graduate Select: Overview Undergraduate Graduate The Department of Art + Design provides a truly interdisciplinary major for students who are interested in exploratory and innovative experiences that blend traditional and emerging creative practices. The Art + Design program sets students on the path to design leading-edge artifacts and experiences that engage, entertain, and impact. Art + Design students are prepared to enter many fields in the creative industries from professional design firms to entertainment and educational technology companies. As “artist-designers,” students in the Art + Design program learn to be creative practitioners and image-makers who bring form to emotions and ideas through the exploration of medium, composition, and most importantly, storytelling. The Department of Art + Design Undergraduate program gives students the opportunity to learn as they develop their creative portfolios through a wide-range of two-dimensional and three-dimensional traditional materials and computer-based processes including: drawing and illustration, visual composition, soft materials construction, fibers, graphic and interactive narratives, motion graphics, visual effects, animation, web design, game design, interactive and computational media, virtual and augmented reality, 3D modeling, digital fabrication, and more. The first two years of the undergraduate Art + Design degree focuses on principal foundations that explore, develop, and strengthen the student’s knowledge of visual and interactive processes. Students focus the remainder of their studies in intermediate and advanced-level classes that encourage depth in traditional materials and computer-based processes and breadth in creative experimentation. The Master of Art + Design (M.A.D) focuses on Experimental Media Arts and encourages students to explore the intersection of digital and material technologies to create interactive and engaging experiences that push the boundaries of storytelling, learning and play. Graduate project work is backed by rigorous research based in exploration, discovery, and historical and contemporary precedents. Graduate students can chose to complete a final project with written documentation or a research-focused thesis on new cross-disciplinary practices in Art + Design. Explore more about our Graduate Program Students and faculty in Art + Design challenge the status quo through creative technology acuity, experimentation across creative mediums, and articulation of creative ideas and vision through verbal and visual explanation. Art + Design students’ study to be: Visual Storytellers:Art + Design students bring a compelling visual form to narratives that results in career paths in the creative industries from animation, game design, and interactive exhibits, to soft materials construction, and digital/print-media publishing. Critical and Creative Thinkers: Art + Design students are taught to be critical and creative problem-solvers with a willingness to take risks to translate creative ideas into prototypes and products. Experimenters:Art + Design students are constantly uncovering new methods, materials, techniques and technologies to enhance their products and ideas by pushing creative boundaries both technically and conceptually. Makers:Art + Design students don’t just propose concepts and prototypes, they take steps beyond idea schematics to prototype and make the products and artifacts that they are designing. Entrepreneurs and Innovators: Art + Design students forge new paths in artifact and experience design that places human engagement, enrichment, and learning at its core. Program Information Courses + Curriculum Faculty + Staff Visual Narrative Cluster Art + Design Senior Showcase Success Stories Resources Art2Wear Experience Design Lab Junior Review The Department of Art + Design Undergraduate program encourages interdisciplinary exploration. The department promotes a breadth of experience, experimentation that helps students ask critical questions and find a creative voice that is confident, professional, and potentially entrepreneurial. Students are prepared to lead careers in the creative industries. Students are taught to be makers, innovators, and entrepreneurs. They are trained to integrate their developing artistic visions and design acuity in traditional materials and emerging technology methods and processes. Students develop a strong foundation in critical thinking and problem-solving. Students are encouraged to think and make beyond the current context to future possibilities. The Department of Art + Design program encourages students to explore the boundaries of technology, narrativity and interaction to create engaging, rich, compelling and innovative stories and interactive experiences. Complementing the creative groundswell of technology-based platforms for storytelling, interactivity, and information sharing, students in the Department of Art + Design are encouraged to blend traditional materials and emerging technologies in ways that encourage new innovations. Students have the opportunity to learn as they develop their creative portfolios through a wide-range of two-dimensional and three-dimensional hand-based and computer-based processes including: drawing and illustration, visual composition, soft materials construction, fibers, graphic and interactive narratives, motion graphics, visual effects, animation, web design, game design, interactive and computational media, virtual and augmented reality, 3D modeling, digital fabrication, and more. The Department of Art + Design Undergraduate Program cultivates a strong foundation in: Critical, creative and adaptive thinking with a focus on exploration, experimentation, and contextual awareness through making; An ability to recognize the components of creative processes and methods that can lead to provocative creative solutions; A nimble facility with the methods, processes, and technologies that drive current and future art and design practices; A commitment to problem-solving that addresses the potentials of human engagement with the designed artifact and experiences; An inter-disciplinary perspective that values diversity in viewpoints and integration across academic disciplines; and An appreciation for the reciprocal relationship between aesthetics, experience and technology. Art + Design Undergraduate Minor The Department of Art + Design believes that there is an essential need for students in a technically based research university to engage in coursework that fosters creative thinking, problem-solving, and making. To meet this need, the department offers courses to all students in the university as a minor in Art + Design. Minors are guided through a selection of courses with consultation from a design advisor. The minor in Art + Design consists of 15 total credit hours of study, of which 6 hours must be satisfied at the basic course level. The remaining 9 hours of courses may be selected from the course list in the information provided by the Art + Design advisor. A grade of “B” or better will be required for credit in all courses in the minor in Art + Design program. Although all efforts are made to accommodate minors, it is important for potential students to know and understand that access to Art + Design courses are based on a hierarchy where priority access goes to design majors. Information on courses and curriculum Program Information Courses + Curriculum CTRL + ALT: A MAD Podcast and Blog Faculty + Staff Visual Narrative Cluster Success Stories Resources Experience Design Lab Master of Art + Design Interest Form The Masters of Art + Design (MAD) focuses on experimental media arts and encourages students to explore the intersection of digital and material technologies to create interactive and engaging experiences that push the boundaries of storytelling, learning and play. Our program prepares students to be design directors, practitioners, visionaries, and leaders in the field who are able to respond to the social, cultural and economic shifts that current times – and global economies – demand. Our students become creative thinkers and skilled makers in an inter-disciplinary educational environment, which provides the critical knowledge and expertise to re-imagine new contexts, and challenge traditional structures and assumptions guiding art and design practice. We encourage graduate students to apply design thinking and innovative technologies in new directions through research, experimentation, creative production, and entrepreneurship. Graduate students create, present and interpret their work with the intellectual insight required to become leaders in their professional field. Through rigorous research and studio-intensive coursework, the program cultivates a critical perspective in art and design that is grounded in intellectual, conceptual, and technical curiosity. Students in the program have the option of doing a final project that is practice-based or a more theoretical and research-based study. Major Areas of Experimental Media Arts Animation and Digital Storytelling:Current digital design and animation offer capabilities and opportunities to create new forms of narrative and performance. The MAD program encourages students to explore new narrative and interactive forms of storytelling to create meaningful experiences. Wearable Technologies: The future of design experiences is about integration of the physical and digital—as hybridization or new invention. The MAD program encourages students to explore both the material and experiential nature of the integration between these two mediums. Kinetic Interaction Design: The visibility and interactivity with traditional interfaces is transforming dramatically and rapidly. The MAD program encourages experimentation with interactive that moves beyond traditional scopes and into immersive, whole-body experiences. Exhibit Design and Interactive Architectures: Include Art and museum installations, location-based sound and visual narrative, navigation systems, physical interface design that enhance the experience based on the behavior of the user and their surrounding environment. Mechatronics and Electronic Art: The crossroads between art, technology and society is an exciting new field for Art + Design practitioners. Through the combination of precision engineering, electronic control, sensory inputs, information design, and intelligent systems and haptic and sensory feedback the MAD program explores a variety of possibilities in these fields. Computer Gaming and Serious Games:Focused on the creation and application of training models and simulations to balance adaptive learning with natural learning environments used with commercial game companies, simulation developers, and technologies that create immersive learning environments. New technologies in design research and practice: How new technologies are impacting the human world—culturally, socially, economically, politically, experientially and myriad other ways. Director of Graduate Programs Tania Allen Associate Professor of Art + Design, Director of Graduate Programs in Art + Design Master of Art and Design Interest Form View our most recent Open House! Track 1: 36-48 Credit Hours Track 1 is for students with a strong background in interactive and experimental media arts. Track 01 students define a practice-based final project with research that supports its development. Students in this track submit a final project and written document that explains the background to the project, theories informing it, references, process and next steps. ————————————— Year 01 Semester 01 (Fall) ADN500: MAD Seminar I: Software, Platforms and Environments • 3 credit hours ADN560: MAD Studio I: Experimental Media Arts Foundation • 6 credit hours 500 level advised elective • 3 credit hours Semester 02 (Spring) ADN501: MAD Seminar II: Experimental Media Arts as Future Making • 3 credit hours ADN561: MAD Studio II: Exploring the HyperReal: Materiality, Reality and Speculation • 6 credit hours 500 level advised elective • 3 credit hours ————————————— Year 02 Semester 03 (Fall) ADN570: MAD Studio III: Final Project Description • 6 credits 500 level advised elective • 3-6 credit hours Semester 04 (48-credit students only) ADN571: MAD Studio IV: Final Project Development • 9 credits Optional 500 level advised elective • 3 credit hours ————————————— Track 2: 48 - 60 Credit Hours Track 2 is for students with undergraduate degrees in art and design or related fields who are interested in moving into teaching in higher education, want to pursue a PhD, and/or have a strong desire to become thought leaders in the field of Art, Design and Experimental Media. This track integrates theoretical research within the final project. Students in this track will do a final project and a written document that includes a background to the project, theoretical foundations, references, explanations and preliminary conclusions and next steps. ————————————— Year 01 Semester 01: ADN500: MAD Seminar I: Software, Platforms and Environments • 3 credit hours ADN560: MAD Studio I: Experimental Media Arts Foundation • 6 credit hours 500 level advised elective • 3 credit hours Semester 02: ADN501: MAD Seminar II: Experimental Media Arts as Future Making • 3 credit hours ADN561: MAD Studio II: Exploring the HyperReal: Materiality, Reality and Speculation • 6 credit hours 500 level advised elective • 3 credit hours ————————————— Year 02 Semester 03: ADN510: Final Project Research Seminar • 3 credit hours ADN570: Final Project Research Studio • 6 credit hours 500 level advised elective • 3 credit hours Semester 04: ADN511: Final Project Documentation Seminar • 3 credit hours ADN571: Final Project Development Studio • 9 credit hours ————————————— Track 3: 60-72-credit hours (Change of Career) Track 3 is geared towards students with a background in something other than interactive and experimental media arts. Once in the program, all Track 3 students will take 12 – 24 credit hours of advanced undergraduate coursework focused on technical, material, visual and conceptual development to improve skills, experiment, and gain confidence in the medium. The DGP will work directly with the student to define the scope of the advanced undergraduate work. Once these preliminary credits are completed, Track 03 students fold into the Track 01 or Track 02 cohort entering the program in the year they start their 500-level coursework. ————————————— Year 01 Semester 01: ADN460: Art + Design Advanced Studio • 6 credit hours ADN491: Undergraduate Art + Design Seminar • 3 credit hours 400-level advised elective • 3 credit hours Semester 02 ADN460: Art + Design Advanced Studio • 6 credit hours 400-level advised electives • 6 credit hours ————————————— Year 02 Semester 03: ADN500: MAD Seminar I: Software, Platforms and Environments • 3 credit hours ADN560: MAD Studio I: Experimental Media Arts Foundation • 6 credit hours 500 level advised elective • 3 credit hours Semester 04: ADN501: MAD Seminar II: Experimental Media Arts as Future Making • 3 credit hours ADN561: MAD Studio II: Exploring the HyperReal: Materiality, Reality and Speculation • 6 credit hours 500 level advised elective • 3 credit hours ————————————— Year 03 Semester 05: ADN510: Final Project Research Seminar • 3 credit hours ADN570: Final Project Development Studio • 6 credit hours 500 level advised elective • 3 credit hours Semester 06: ADN511: Final Project Documentation Seminar • 3 credit hours ADN571: Final Project Studio • 9 credit hours ————————————— Art + Design Gallery All Animation Interactive Media Soft Construction + Fibers College of Design Accessibility About the College From the Dean Explore Undergraduate Explore Graduate Diversity Accreditation Contact Us Calendar of Events Give to the College Design News Sign up for DesignNews Faculty Central Faculty Senate Campus Map Campus Box 7701 Raleigh, NC 27695-7701 Email Us | Map + Directions © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved. Privacy Statement Policy Disclaimer NC State College of Design yvusq