Skip to main content Search for: Ex: How do I apply to Providence College? Menu Apply Visit Give Coronavirus Information & Updates Parents & Families Alumni Media MY-PC Events About Admission Undergraduate Continuing Education Graduate Programs Academics Catholic & Dominican Diversity Student Life Athletics Close menu Site Home> Majors and Minors > Graduate Admission Information Graduate Admission Information For admission to Providence College Graduate Programs, applicants must hold a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college. The following are requirements for admission: Online application Application fee of $65.00 Official graduate and undergraduate transcripts Application requirements for the program, outlined below International students may have additional requirements and earlier deadlines, Office of International Students for more information Program-specific requirements are below: M.Ed. in Higher Education Two letters of recommendation (one from a faculty advisor or work supervisor) Résumé Personal Statement – Please submit a statement of no more than 2 pages in length that discusses: Your professional goals in pursuing advanced studies in higher education How you see this program helping you achieve your professional goals Work and/or academic experiences that have helped prepare you for this program Other information that may be of special interest and importance to the admissions committee Program website M.Ed. in Literacy Two Recommendation Forms (one from current principal, supervising administrator, or cooperating teacher) – instructions will be emailed to Recommenders Professional Statement (approximately 1,000 words) Guidelines: What experiences have motivated you to pursue a career as a reading specialist? Identify 3 to 5 competencies that you bring to the position and provide specific examples of how these skills will benefit you in your anticipated role or position. In your response, consider the following: the core values and beliefs that you bring to the position the experiences that have shaped your thinking your observations of other professionals in this position the impact you hope to have on a school community Program website M.Ed. in Literacy 4+1 for PC Education Majors Two Recommendation Forms (one from a school supervisor, i.e., cooperating teacher or college supervisor) – instructions will be emailed to Recommenders Professional Statement (approximately 1,000 words) Guidelines: What experiences have motivated you to pursue a career as a reading specialist? Identify 3 to 5 competencies that you bring to the position and provide specific examples of how these skills will benefit you in your anticipated role or position. In your response, consider the following: the core values and beliefs that you bring to the position the experiences that have shaped your thinking your observations of other professionals in this position the impact you hope to have on a school community Program website M.Ed. in School Counseling Two Recommendation Forms (one from your principal, supervising administrator, or cooperating teacher) – instructions will be emailed to Recommenders Professional Statement (approximately 1,000 words) Guidelines: What experiences have motivated you to pursue a career as a school counselor? Identify 3 to 5 competencies that you bring to the position and provide specific examples of how these skills will benefit you in your anticipated role or position. In your response, consider the following: the core values and beliefs that you bring to the position the experiences that have shaped your thinking your observations of other professionals in this position the impact you hope to have on a school community Program website M.Ed. in School Leadership (formerly Administration) Two Recommendation Forms (one from current principal or supervising administrator)– instructions will be emailed to Recommenders. Please note: you may submit a recommendation from an assistant principal, but you must also have a recommendation from your current principal. Résumé that highlights leadership experience Professional Statement (approximately 1,000 words) Guidelines: What experiences have motivated you to pursue a career as a school administrator? Identify 3 to 5 competencies that you bring to the position and provide specific examples of how these skills will benefit you in your anticipated role or position. In your response, consider the following: the core values and beliefs that you bring to the position the experiences that have shaped your thinking your observations of other professionals in this position the impact you hope to have on a school community Program website M.Ed. in Special Education with Dyslexia Credential Completed online application Application fee of $65.00 Official undergraduate and graduate transcripts Current résumé Two professional recommendation forms Statement of interest (approximately 500 words) Describe how you became interested in pursuing a credential in dyslexia studies. How do you envision this training being put to good use in your future pursuits? Program website M.Ed. in Urban Teaching Two letters of recommendation (preferably submitted by a past or present instructor/supervisor) Statement of Intent – In your statement, please discuss the purpose for seeking admission to the Urban Teaching program and include career and academic goals. In addition, candidates should discuss their experiences working with urban youth and their vision for enacting social justice as a teacher. Copy of teacher certification (optional) Interview Note: if you are interested in our M.Ed. in Urban Teaching with Teacher Certification, please apply for our joint program through our School of Continuing Education. Program website MA in Global Education and TESOL Two letters of recommendation (one from a faculty advisor or work supervisor) Résumé Personal statement – Please submit a statement of no more than 2 pages in length that discusses: Your professional goals in pursuing advanced studies in Global Education and TESOL. How you see this program helping you achieve your professional goals. Your work and/or academic experiences that have helped prepare you for this program. Other information that may be of interest and importance to the admissions committee. Interview Program website MA in History Two written recommendations from at least two individuals well acquainted with the academic ability of the applicant. One letter from a professional historian. Statement of purpose of no more than 3 pages in length that discusses: Your personal and academic background. Your reasons for pursuing graduate study, and why you have selected Providence College (i.e., research interests, professors, graduate coursework, etc.). How a Master’s in History aligns with your career aspirations. Program website MA in Teaching Mathematics Two letters of recommendation Statement of purpose – Please submit a statement of no more than 3 pages in length that discusses: Reason for pursuing graduate study Personal and academic background Assumed responsibility for your own personal growth Transcripts must include 24 credits in mathematics beyond pre-calculus; or 18 credits in mathematics beyond pre-calculus, plus 6 credits in education with a minimum “B” average Note: if you are interested in our M.Ed. in Teaching Math with Teacher Certification, please apply for our joint program through our School of Continuing Education. Program website Theology MA in Biblical Studies | MA in Theology | Master of Theological Studies Two letters of recommendation Statement of purpose – Please submit a statement of no more than 3 pages in length that discusses: Reason for pursuing graduate study Personal and academic background Assumed responsibility for your own personal growth Transcripts must include 18 credits in Theology with a minimum “B” average Program website Graduate Certificate in Sports Administration Résumé Personal Statement – Please submit a statement of no more than 2 pages in length that discusses: How will obtaining this certificate enhance your professional opportunities and help you achieve your professional goals? Program website Non-Degree Qualified students may enroll in six graduate credits before they are formally admitted to a graduate program. Students may continue to enroll beyond the six credits in a non-degree status only with permission of the program director. Students who exceed the six credits who later choose to apply to a graduate program must follow and meet all of the admission requirements. In order to qualify for non-degree status, you must: Hold a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university Meet the prerequisites for the course you would like to take Receive permission from the director of the program within which the course you wish to take falls Non-matriculating, first-time students may apply at this link. If you are an international student who requires a visa, please apply to one of our full-time graduate programs. Once we receive your complete application and add you in our system as a non-degree student, we will send you an encrypted email with your CyberFriar username (Banner ID) and temporary pin (Password). Then you may sign into CyberFriar and register for courses. Please note, payment is due at the time of registration. For more information about the Providence Alliance for Catholic Teachers (PACT). The College welcomes applicants who demonstrate academic and experiential preparation, good character, intellectual interest, and motivational purpose.  The admission committee will conduct a holistic review of all application materials, which must demonstrate the potential to complete graduate study with the 3.0 cumulative GPA required for receiving the master’s degree. Please note: Providence College requires all graduate students to either be vaccinated against COVID-19 or be approved for a medical or religious exemption. Deadlines March 1 for Summer | July 1 for Fall | November 1 for Spring M.Ed. in Administration M.Ed. in Higher Education M.Ed. in Literacy and Literacy 4+1 for PC Education Majors M.Ed. in School Counseling Rolling Admission MA in Biblical Studies MA in Global Education and TESOL MA in History MA in Teaching Mathematics MA in Theology Master of Theological Studies M.Ed. in Urban Teaching Graduate Certificate in Sports Administration Official Transcripts Applications will not be reviewed until we receive official transcripts from your college or university. Electronic transcripts are preferred. Please ensure that they are sent to the email or mailing address below, and they are sent directly from the institution. PDFs from the applicant will not be acceptable as official transcripts. Email: gradschool@providence.edu Mail: Lisa Lombardo, Office of Admission, Providence College, One Cunningham Square, Providence, RI 02918-0001 Apply Now Loading… Departments and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs School of Continuing Education Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Catalogs Graduate Application Information Contact Us Dr. Nuria Alonso Garcia Director of Urban Teaching Feinstein Hall 315 Phone: 401.865.2048 NALONSOG@providence.edu Dr. Diane DiSanto Director of Administration Harkins Hall 328 Phone: 401.865.2881 ddisanto@providence.edu Dr. Brian McCadden Director of Higher Education Feinstein 302 Phone: 401.865.2247 bmccadde@providence.edu Dr. Patricia Nailor Director of School Counseling Harkins Hall 328 Phone: 401.865.2922 pnailor@providence.edu Dr. Beverly Paesano Director of Literacy Harkins Hall 328 Phone: 401.865.1987 bpaesano@providence.edu Todd Hopkins Administrative Coordinator Graduate Programs Feinstein 301 Phone: 401.865.2247 thopkin2@providence.edu PC School of Business Graduate Programs Ryan Center for Business Studies Phone: 401.865.2294 PCSB-grad@providence.edu Dr. Jeff Johnson Program Director-History Ruane 133 j.johnson@providence.edu Meredith Haluga Senior Administrative Coordinator Ruane 137 Phone: 401.865.2193 mhaluga@providence.edu Dr. Wataru Ishizuka Program Director-Math Howley Hall 221 Phone: 401-865-2784 WISHIZUK@providence.edu Dr. Ian C Levy Program Director-Theology St. Catherine of Siena Hall 220 Phone: 401.865.2258 ilevy@providence.edu PACT PACT Program Harkins Hall 328 Phone: 401.865.2657 PACT@providence.edu Dr. Marcy Zipke Director of Special Education Harkins Hall 319 Phone: 401.865.2695 mzipke@providence.edu 1 Cunningham Square Providence, RI 02918 USA Tel: +1.401.865.1000 Contact PC Support PC Emergency Information Student Consumer Information Academics Majors, Minors, Programs Academic Calendar Library People & Places Offices & Services Directory People Directory Maps & Directions Visit Facts & Info Fast Facts Jobs Mass Schedule Annual Security Report Title IX & Sexual Harassment Copyright ©2022. Providence College Terms of Use | Privacy Policy If you are having trouble viewing or accessing these web pages, please email our Web Accessibility Coordinator Page maintained by: PC Web Services | About This Site