Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MSAFA Obtain rigorous, graduate-level training that combines accounting analysis with fundamental value investing MSAFA Academics Academic Calendar Student Life Career Support Admissions Application Requirements Candidate Profile Frequently Asked Questions Tuition & Financial Aid University Employees Current Students More Jump to main content Overview The Masters of Science in Accounting and Fundamental Analysis is a three-semester STEM-designated program. It focuses on active, fundamental investing with an emphasis of handling accounting information in investment analysis. Students are exposed to up-to-date research to give them an edge as investors. Research insights and quantitative skills are developed at the PhD level, followed by practical application to equity analysis, credit analysis and investment advisory. The Columbia Advantage Academics Students take a carefully constructed curriculum of Doctoral, MS, and MBA courses offered at Columbia Business School. The program has some overlap with our PhD program, but is intended for students who prefer a shorter and more industry-oriented experience than the School’s doctoral program. Candidates should have academic preparation equivalent to that of entering PhD students, and should be fully prepared to participate in PhD classes and to complete a substantial research project. Student Life Columbia Business School’s supportive community helps our busy students balance their life, work, and studies while still having opportunities to enjoy one another’s company and the excitement of New York City. Take a moment to meet our current students and alumni who talk about their Columbia Business School experiences. We’re sure you’ll see yourself in their personal glimpses and positive reflections on their time here, especially with their professors and fellow students. Career Resources The Career Management Center (CMC) at Columbia Business School works with students to develop lifelong career management skills and empowers them to leverage the Columbia Business School network throughout their careers. The small size of the program allows the CMC to target search resources, tailoring these to the experience and needs of MS in Financial Economics students in a variety of industries. By the numbers Average GMAT Score 743 Incoming Class Size 25 % Employed within Six Months 100 Frequently Asked Questions Is the MSAFA program STEM eligible? Yes, all of our MS programs are STEM eligible. Do I need to have work experience to gain acceptance into the MSAFA program? While you do not need previous work experience to apply or to gain acceptance, we do find that some work or internship experience may prove valuable for both. Do I need to send official GMAT, GRE, TOEFL, etc. scores to apply? We do not require you to send official scores to apply to the program. However, if offered admissions, these documents will be required to validate the offer of admission. Do I need to take the TOEFL, IELTS, or PET to apply? International students who do not have a bachelor’s, master’s, or doctoral degree from an institution in which all instruction is conducted in English must take either the TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language), the PTE (Pearson Test of English), or the IELTS (International English Language Testing System). You may be exempted only if you have earned a degree from an institution in which English is the language of instruction. We will not accept requests for exceptions to this policy. Your scores must be valid when you submit your application. View all FAQs Contact us Our Admissions Office is located in 203 Uris Hall on Columbia University’s Morningside Heights Campus. Prospective students are welcome to drop by to speak with an admissions counselor from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Beginning in January 2022, all MS courses will be held at our new campus in Manhattanville and our offices will relocate to Kravis Hall. Email: [email protected] Phone: 212-854-2836 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels