Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MBA Academics Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Student Life Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Campus The Neighborhood Explore NYC Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Review Process Events Class Visit Program Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Tuition & Financial Aid Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees More The Consortium for Graduate Study in Management MBA Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team About Columbia Business School is a proud member of the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management, an alliance of leading American business schools and top US corporations. The Consortium's mission is to enhance diversity and inclusion in global business education and leadership by striving to reduce the significant underrepresentation of African Americans, Hispanic Americans and Native Americans in both member schools' enrollments and in the ranks of global management. Consortium Fellowships Candidates who apply through the Consortium and are accepted by Columbia Business School are considered for full-tuition, merit-based Columbia Business School Consortium Fellowships. Applying via the Consortium does not preclude applicants from being awarded other CBS fellowships and scholarships. Consortium Deadlines All deadlines are set by the Consortium. For more information, please visit the Consortium website. Application Opens August 15, 2021 Early Application Deadline October 15, 2021 Traditional Application Deadline January 5, 2022 Frequently Asked Questions What's the difference between applying through the Consortium versus applying directly to CBS? Applicants who apply through the Consortium undergo the same evaluation process and admissions standards as applicants who apply directly to Columbia Business School. Applying through the Consortium offers a few key benefits, including a common application to multiple partner schools, consideration for membership in the Consortium, and consideration for a Consortium fellowship. To learn more, visit the Consortium website. Am I eligible to apply through the Consortium? Please refer to the Consortium's guidelines on Applicant Eligibility here. Do I need to complete the CBS application in addition to the Consortium application? If you are applying through the Consortium, you only need to complete the Consortium application and the Columbia Business School Consortium supplement via the Consortium application portal. You do not need to complete the Columbia Business School application. Which application deadlines should I follow – Columbia’s deadlines or the Consortium’s? As a Consortium applicant, you must adhere to the deadlines outlined by the Consortium. What is the process for re-applicants? Re-applicants to Columbia Business School can re-apply through the Consortium. Re-applicants who apply through the Consortium will submit all required application materials in the Columbia supplement. The re-applicant essay is not required for Columbia Business School re-applicants who apply through the Consortium. If I retake the GMAT, GRE, or Executive Assessment after the Consortium application deadline, will you consider my new score? You must take the GMAT, GRE, or Executive Assessment on or before the Consortium application deadline for the round in which you apply. Can I apply for Columbia’s January-entry option through the Consortium? January-entry applicants are not eligible to apply through the Consortium. To apply for the January-Entry Program, please apply directly through Columbia Business School. Can I apply for Columbia's Deferred Enrollment Program through the Consortium? Deferred Enrollment Program applicants are not eligible to apply through the Consortium. To apply for the Deferred Enrollment Program, please apply directly through Columbia Business School. Can I apply through the Consortium as a dual degree candidate with one of Columbia’s dual degree programs? Three-Year JD/MBA: Three-Year JD/MBA applicants are not eligible to apply to the JD/MBA program through the Consortium. To apply for the Three-Year JD/MBA, please apply directly through Columbia Business School. Other MBA dual degree programs: Applicants to all other dual degree programs are eligible to apply through the Consortium. Applicants need to submit separate applications to each program and be admitted to each program in order to enroll as a dual degree student. Columbia Business School does not defer students to future terms (with the exception of the Three-Year J.D./MBA), so dual degree applicants should apply to the Business School for the term in which they plan to enroll. What is the interview process if I apply through the Consortium? Admissions interviews are conducted according to each school’s specific policy. Columbia Business School has an invitation-only admissions interview process. After the initial application review, Consortium applicants may be invited to interview by the Columbia Business School Admissions Committee. Please note: If you apply through the Consortium by the Early Deadline (October 15) and you are invited to interview by the Admissions Committee, that interview will take place on Friday, November 19 or Saturday, November 20. Can I be considered for the Consortium fellowships by applying directly to Columbia Business School? To be considered for the Columbia Consortium fellowship, you must apply through the Consortium. Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application Application Deadlines January 2023 Entry Final September 28, 2022 August 2023 Entry Early September 28, 2022 Merit Fellowship January 11, 2023 Final April 5, 2023 Deferred Enrollment Program Final April 15, 2022 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats