Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MBA Academics Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Student Life Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Campus The Neighborhood Explore NYC Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Review Process Events Class Visit Program Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Tuition & Financial Aid Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees More International Students MBA Student Organizations Events International Students Diversity The Culture of NYC Student Profiles “I serve on student government as VP of international. About 40 percent of MBA students are international, and for the January term, more than 60 percent are international. One of my missions is to smooth the transition for international students into and out of Columbia Business School.” As a community, we're sensitive to the challenges our many international students face adjusting to New York City and the School. There are often questions about visas, housing, bank accounts, cell phones, and more. That's why we've compiled a full slate of resources to help you settle into your new home. The Office of Student Affairs offers a range of support for incoming students. The Peer Advisors and international student clubs are terrific resources for foreign students adjusting to our community, as well, and the Chazen Institute for Global Business serves as the hub for the School's major global programs and initiatives. When you arrive on campus, you'll be invited to attend a special orientation for international students. So before you buy your first book or go to your first class, you can meet new friends and have all your questions answered. Be sure to check out the University’s International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO), which provides essential information on visas, work authorizations, arriving in New York City, preparing for airports, questions about housing, and it offers family resources. For more information, contact the ISSO at 212-854-3587 or at [email protected]. Once you’re ensconced in campus life, Columbia Business School offers numerous opportunities for you to hone your leadership skills as an international student. Consider, for example, attending or even organizing a Chazen Global Study Tour to show off your home country to your fellow students and create an unforgettable, resume-building experience. Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application Application Deadlines January 2023 Entry Final September 28, 2022 August 2023 Entry Early September 28, 2022 Merit Fellowship January 11, 2023 Final April 5, 2023 Deferred Enrollment Program Final April 15, 2022 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats