Skip to content Undergraduate Research Division of Student Learning and Academic Success Main Menu Prospective ResearchersMenu Toggle What is Research? Why do Research? How to Get Started Research Learning Communities New to UCF? Introduction to Research Courses Research Positions Database Current ResearchersMenu Toggle Overview & Current Opportunities Funding OpportunitiesMenu Toggle Student Research Grants Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship Federal Work Study Award Programs Publication and Presentation Opportunities Programs with Course Credit Summer Off Campus Research Leadership Opportunities Safety Faculty ResearchersMenu Toggle Research-Intensive Course Designation Directed Independent Research (4912) Recognition for Mentoring Effective Mentoring Practices Find Students Fund Students Professional Development AboutMenu Toggle Request a Presentation Workshops and Deadlines Mission and Vision Meet the Team Contact Us Councils ListServ Sign-Up Office of Undergraduate Research Policies Make an Appointment Our peer mentors are available to help with any undergraduate research questions. Peer mentoring sessions cover everything from getting started in undergraduate research to current researcher needs such as grants, presenting, and publishing. All Peer Mentoring Appointments for OUR will be made through myKnightSTAR. Follow the directions below to make your appointment. Virtual Appointments (Zoom) Monday: 2 – 4:30 p.m. Friday: 9 – 11 a.m. In-Person Appointments (Trevor Colbourn Hall, Suite 205A) Tuesday: 2 – 4:30 p.m. Thursday: 2 – 4:30 p.m. Accessing myKnightSTAR 1. Log in to your myUCF account using your NID and NID password. 2. Select Student Self Services 3. Select myKnightSTAR at the bottom of the drop down under Student Self Services 4. Click on the blue Get Assistance Button to begin scheduling your appointment Selecting an Appointment Once on the Get Assistance page, select: Peer Support Programs as the type of appointment Undergraduate Research Peer Mentoring as the option Click next One the next page, select: HIP HUB as the location Any Staff to see all availability Click next Viewing and Selecting Appointment Time Using the calendar, select the preferred date and time of day (morning or afternoon) Then, select the specific time slot for the appointment Click next Confirm Appointment Once you confirm your appointment, you are good to go. We look forward to talking to your at your Peer Mentoring session! If you have any questions or issues making a peer mentoring appointment, email our@ucf.edu Undergraduate Research Division of Student Learning and Academic Success our@ucf.edu 407-882-2300 Trevor Colbourn Hall, Suite 205 Excellence, Innovation, and Distinction ✦ Copyright © 2022 Division of Student Learning and Academic Success | College of Undergraduate Studies The University of Central Florida is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award degrees at the associate, baccalaureate, master’s, specialist, and doctoral levels. Questions about the accreditation of UCF may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC’s website (www.sacscoc.org).