Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Research Opportunities Predoctoral Fellowships Alumni and Placements Current Predoctoral Fellows Postdoctoral Fellowships Summer Research Internship Summer Intern Placements Past Summer Research Projects 2019 Projects 2018 Projects 2017 Projects 2016 Projects 2015 Projects 2014 Projects CUBS Program CDBE Award More Current Predoctoral Fellows Predoctoral Research Alumni and Placements Current Predoctoral Fellows Accounting Karin Hobelsberger Bio forthcoming Lin Xie Lin holds a MSc in Finance and Economics from London School of Economics and Political Science, and a BBA in Accounting and Finance with minor in Applied Mathematics from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Before joining Columbia Business School, he worked as a Research Assistant in several projects during his master and undergraduate study. His primary interest is in asset pricing but also enjoys working in other research areas in accounting, finance and economics. He is proficient with R and Stata, and is familiar with Python. Economics Sergio Florez Sergio completed his MA in Economics at Universidad de los Andes (Colombia) in April 2021 and joined the Economics division at Columbia Business School in July 2021. Sergio is originally from Bogota, Colombia. During his time at Uniandes, he worked as an RA for various professors in topics related to development finance, macroeconomics, and education. Before joining CBS, Sergio also worked as a Research Associate at Innovations for Poverty Action where he participated in the empirical evaluation of a security policy intervention in Cali, Colombia. He is interested in the areas of international finance and monetary policy. In his master’s thesis, he addressed the role of international currencies in the international transmission of monetary policy. Sergio is proficient in STATA, R and Matlab, and is currently learning Python. Kerry Neitzel Bio Forthcoming Ryan Santos Bio Forthcoming Finance Gokul Ganesh Gokul received a B. Tech in Electronics & Communication Engineering from the National Institute of Technology Karnataka (India) in 2018. After graduation, he worked as a junior analyst with JPMorgan Chase with its Global Trade & Exotic Products team for almost two years. In December 2021, he earned a master’s degree in financial engineering from UCLA Anderson School of Management, receiving an award for academic excellence. During his time at Anderson, he worked part-time as a graduate student researcher on two projects in labor economics & political economics with faculty at Anderson. His interests lie in the field of international finance, developmental finance, public finance & monetary policy. He is proficient in R, Python, and is familiar with STATA. Gokul plans to pursue a PhD in finance and economics in the future. Management Kalie Wertz Kalie holds a double BA degree in Sociology and Communication with a minor in Professional Editing from University of California Santa Barbara, a Master’s in Public Administration (MPA) from the University of Pennsylvania, and a Graduate Certificate in Business Analytics from Temple University. She has served as a research assistant on management and sociological qualitative projects at both the University of Pennsylvania and Temple University. Topics include the gig economy, indigenous representation on corporate boards, and workplace attainment. She has assisted with conducting interviews, literature reviews, qualitative coding, and writing/editing, among other tasks. Before joining Columbia Business School, Kalie held a decade-long career in nonprofit management and external affairs, where she scaled community-based projects and programs for social impact alongside corporate partners. Her main research focuses are social movements, corporate social responsibility, and employee activism. She is interested in pursuing a PhD in organization theory and non-market strategy. She has working knowledge of Python, R & SQL. Marketing Sanjana Rosario Sanjana graduated from the Master of Science in Business Analytics program offered jointly by Columbia's Graduate School of Business and School of Engineering and Applied Sciences in 2020. While in the MSBA program, she completed coursework involving the application of statistical tools in solving business problems. She is interested in pursuing a career in quantitative marketing research. Prior to joining the Marketing division, she worked at Mu Sigma (India) and Justworks (New York), mainly engaged in analytics consulting and business intelligence respectively. Sanjana is proficient in Python and SQL and has working knowledge of R. She holds an undergraduate degree in electronics and communication engineering. Milstein Center (Real Estate Finance) Declan Mirabella Declan joined the Milstein Center after graduating in 2021 with an MSc in Economics from the London School of Economics with a focus on monetary economics. He earned a B.A. in mathematics and economics from Georgetown University, summa cum laude. During his time at Georgetown, Declan wrote his senior economics thesis on the effect of gaining internet access on borrower's mortgage rates, as well as a mathematics thesis on graph theory and configurations. During the summer of 2019, he also worked as an intern at Chatham Financial, assisting them in trading derivatives. At Georgetown, Declan also helped maintain, clean and analyze ecological databases as an RA for a biology lab for two years. Declan's current focus is on real estate finance, particularly residential mortgages. He is proficient in R and Stata and has a working knowledge of Python. Luofeng Zhou Luofeng holds a BA in Economics, a BS in Mathematics and a BEng in Computer Science from Wuhan University (China) and an MS in Financial Engineering from Columbia University. As an undergrad, he was studied causal inference theory and its application in social science. He also worked as a research assistant at the Institute for Interdisciplinary Information Sciences (IIIS), Tsinghua University (China), where he started to work on the intersection of AI and finance. He continued to explore this research direction during his master's study, both independently and together with faculty members at Columbia Business School. He is proficient in Python and Java, and is familiar with STATA and MATLAB. Predoctoral Research Sidebar Links Stay in touch DRO Predoc Jobs Marketing Predoc Jobs Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats