Thank you for using Academic Commons. Please help us improve our website by taking a brief survey. Skip to main content Columbia University Libraries Academic Commons search for Search About Explore Log In Upload Your Research Academic Commons Developers API OAI-PMH SWORD Sitemap Metadata License API The Academic Commons RESTful API can be used to query/search for records. We support JSON responses. Documentation and a GUI can be found at: http://petstore.swagger.io/?url=https://academiccommons.columbia.edu/api/v1/swagger_doc To see an example of an AC API integration, visit the Earth Institute Directory. OAI-PMH Academic Commons supports the Open Archives Initiative Protocol for Metadata Harvesting (OAI-PMH), version 2.0. The base URL is: https://academiccommons.columbia.edu/oai The API supports GET requests; users interested in making POST requests should consider using the SWORD protocol detailed below. For questions about how to integrate an API feed into your Columbia Site, please contact ac@columbia.edu. SWORD Academic Commons can receive materials via SWORD deposit. SWORD is a protocol that automates the deposit process. SWORD is best used for recurring deposits, such as regular deposits of theses or working papers from Columbia departments and regular deposits of articles from Columbia-affiliated journals. Additionally, while the Academic Commons API does not include POST functionality, SWORD can be used in a similar manner to make deposits to Academic Commons in a more programatic way. To use SWORD you must have: SWORD credentials (provided by Columbia Libraries) Username and password to use for Basic Authentication header in POST request URL to use for the POST request Deposits in package format that include an item (often a PDF) and an xml metadata file The SWORD server expects a file in zip format. This zip file will contain the item(s) to be deposited, along with a file called mets.xml. This file will contain metadata, including the list of item files. It is based on Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard (METS). View an xml example. The ability to create metadata xml files either manually or programmatically Access to a SWORD client or SWORD library and the ability to initiate deposits If you would like to learn more about how to deposit content via SWORD or start the process of requesting credentials, contact us at ac@columbia.edu. Sitemap The sitemap for Academic Commons is regenerated every weekday. https://academiccommons.columbia.edu/sitemap.xml.gz Metadata License Academic Commons bibliographic metadata—excluding abstracts, which may be under copyright—is available under a Creative Commons 0 1.0 Universal license. To the extent possible under law, Columbia University Libraries has waived all copyright and related or neighboring rights to Academic Commons bibliographic metadata (abstracts are excluded from this license). This work is published from: United States. About | FAQ | Policies | Developers| Credits ac@columbia.edu Academic Commons provides global access to research and scholarship produced at Columbia University, Barnard College, Teachers College, Union Theological Seminary and Jewish Theological Seminary. Academic Commons is managed by the Columbia University Libraries.