Skip to main content College of Design School of Architecture | College of Design Menu Close Home Faculty and Staff Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Sustainability Partnerships Ways to Give Give to the School of Architecture Accreditation Integrated Path to Architectural Licensure (iPAL) Undergraduate Bachelor Degrees Undergraduate Curriculum and Courses Undergraduate Studios Undergraduate Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Graduate Masters of Architecture M.Arch. Admissions M.Arch. Curriculum and Courses Master of Advanced Architectural Studies (MAAS) MAAS Admissions Graduate Studios Public Interest Design Incubator Studio Graduate Handbooks Financial Aid and Scholarships Research and Engagement Communities Technologies Affordable Housing and Sustainable Communities The Building Energy Technology Laboratory (BETlab) Building Systems Integration Coastal Dynamics Design Lab Design + Build Studio Public Interest Design: Community Collaborators Students Student Work Organizations for Architecture Students Study Abroad News and Events 2022 Architecture Lectures Lectures and Educational Programs Events Designlife Magazine Newsletter Signup Give to the School of Architecture Home Home Faculty and Staff Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Sustainability Partnerships Ways to Give Give to the School of Architecture Accreditation Integrated Path to Architectural Licensure (iPAL) Undergraduate Undergraduate Bachelor Degrees Undergraduate Curriculum and Courses Undergraduate Studios Undergraduate Admissions Financial Aid and Scholarships Graduate Graduate Masters of Architecture M.Arch. Admissions M.Arch. Curriculum and Courses Master of Advanced Architectural Studies (MAAS) MAAS Admissions Graduate Studios Public Interest Design Incubator Studio Graduate Handbooks Financial Aid and Scholarships Research and Engagement Research and Engagement Communities Technologies Affordable Housing and Sustainable Communities The Building Energy Technology Laboratory (BETlab) Building Systems Integration Coastal Dynamics Design Lab Design + Build Studio Public Interest Design: Community Collaborators Students Students Student Work Organizations for Architecture Students Study Abroad News and Events News and Events 2022 Architecture Lectures Lectures and Educational Programs Events Designlife Magazine Newsletter Signup Give to the School of Architecture School of Architecture School of Architecture Head David Hill, FAIA // Email David Since its founding, the School of Architecture has been a leader of innovation in design. Today that tradition continues with programs centered on design excellence and unique approaches to contemporary urban, environmental, and ethical challenges. Our fully accredited program provides a rigorous professional education paired with multidisciplinary and self-directed design and research opportunities. Multiple paths to a professional degree are provided by undergraduate and graduate degree programs, including the iPal Accelerated Path to Licensure. A Masters of Advanced Architectural Studies, Certificates and Concentrations and a Design-Build summer program provide for specialized studies. Connections to a robust architectural community offer professional opportunities. Degree Programs Certificates and Concentrations Design + Research Areas and Labs Upcoming Events All Events Jun 23 Thursday7:00 PM Alumni and Friends Reception at the AIA Conference Featured News See More News Congratulations, Class of 2022! We asked our spring graduates for some thoughts on their time in the College of Design. Below, hear from them in their own words. Designlife Magazine: Drones, Automated Vehicles, 3D Ceramics and More The spring 2022 issue of Designlife magazine is here! Our feature story celebrates the end of the Think and Do the Extraordinary campaign, and most notably, the many faces that not only made it our most successful campaign to date, but shaped the college and its direction, laying the groundwork for years to come. Mural Contest Winner’s Vision Comes to Life Carmina Ferreras’ inspirational design for the mural contest comes to life inside the lobby of the Graduate School. Follow the School of Architecture on Instagram! ncstate_architecture 79 ncstate_architecture View May 5 Open 2022 AIA Triangle Scholarship Student Design Awards. Honor Award winner Hannah Smith’s Direct: Identity and Accessibility for NC State’s Graduate School and Poole College of Management from the ARC 501 studio. “Encouraging social connections and directing people to the world around them becomes easier when there are more accessible routes to let them happen.” Honor Award Student: Hannah Smith Year: 5th Year Studio: ARC 501 Instructors: Jianxin Hu, Michael Wagner, Michael Coates #AIATriangle #ncstatedesign #library #architecture ... ncstate_architecture View Apr 26 Open Studio desks are looking busy 👀Good luck with reviews! ... ncstate_architecture View Apr 22 Open New COD Gallery Exhibition: Oppressive Infrastructures: Mapping Racism in the Built Environment Brooks Hall Gallery, April-July Course: DIY Cartography, co-taught by Tania Allen and Sara Queen Connected to an ongoing research project examining the history of equity in the built environment, this cross-disciplinary graduate level seminar uses techniques of mapping—analyzing and making meaning of raw data—as a comparative analytic tool and as a way to uncover hidden meanings between data and the built environment. The class began by visualizing a 2020 data set from the Southern Poverty Law Center which compiled all confederate memorials in the US -- both standing and removed. The structural disparities of today overlaid with temporal and spatial patterns of memorial erection expose a palimpsest of institutionalized racism beginning in structures of slavery, reformulated through the segregationalist policies of the Jim Crow Era, and reinforced by the reactionary legislation and social practices spanning the Civil Rights Era to today. With these insights, students broadened their study to include the societal, economic and political structures that manifest and support systemic racism and ongoing oppression. ... ncstate_architecture View Apr 19 Open 🔴 Final reviews are here 🔴 ... ncstate_architecture View Apr 16 Open A group of students has taken the initiative to reexamine the floor of The Allred Gallery, which was originally inspired by Le Corbusier. Today we are learning more about Corbusier’s ties to discriminatory groups and his values that do not align with the College of Design’s mission. We do not support Corbusier’s values, especially those of homophobia, misogyny, and fascism. The School of Architecture and College of Design strive to be a safe and inclusive space for all students. This group of students has taken the initiative to rethink Allred Gallery to better reflect the values that our school represents. On March 30, a student-led charrette encouraged participants to redesign the space. More discussions about the floor will take place in the future. A statement from Dean Mark Hoversten can be found on the @ncstatedesign page. Follow the @fascistfloor page to learn more and stay updated! ... ncstate_architecture View Apr 12 Open Lecture Wednesday, April 13th @ 6PM in Burns Auditorium FBD hosts Andy Osterlund of Osterlund Architects to lead an introductory lesson of National CAD Standards. Join us in Burns Auditorium to listen and learn important information on skills commonly used in firms. Snacks will be provided! ... ncstate_architecture View Apr 10 Open Congratulations and thank you to our AIA Triangle student award winners and volunteers! We all enjoyed the @aiatriangle Design Awards and @frank_harmon ‘s @ncbotanicalgarden building. ... ncstate_architecture View Apr 7 Open 2022 AIA Triangle Scholarship Student Design Awards. Merit Award winner Kinsley Stevens’s Leapfrog: A Coming-of-Age from the ARC 201 studio. “The area is illuminated by the moonlight directly east - this doesn’t happen every night, but its occurrence is as brief and fleeting as the instance of childhood memories.” Merit Award Student: Kinsley Stevens Year: Sophomore Studio: ARC 201 Instructor: Ezgi Balkanay #AIATriangle #ncstatedesign #architecture ... ncstate_architecture View Apr 4 Open 2022 AIA Triangle Scholarship Student Design Awards. Honor Award winner Carolina Sarmiento’s Atkinson Station 11: Designing for Rural Health from the ARC 503 studio. “The goal of the project is to bring-in resources to the Town of Atkinson to implement appropriate healthcare, quick disaster relief, and community building opportunities.” Honor Award Student: Carolina Sarmiento Year: Graduate Studio: ARC 503 Instructors: Bryan Bell #AIATriangle #ncstatedesign #library #architecture ... ncstate_architecture View Apr 1 Open School of Architecture & AIA Triangle Joint Lecture Series Architecture and Culture Lecture Mon., Apr. 4 at 12pm (Watch party @stitchdesignshop Allred Gallery + via zoom) Anupama Kundoo (India) https://anupamakundoo.com/ Anupama Kundoo's architecture centers around traditional craft traditions and construction techniques. Her buildings feature handmade materials assembled by local craftsmen, which she favours over mass-produced production methods. Lecture registration and link in bio. ... ncstate_architecture View Mar 31 Open 2021-22 Brian Shawcroft Prize The Brian Shawcroft Prize is awarded every year to an architecture student who demonstrates excellent hand drawing skills in one (or more) of the following uses: thinking - sketches presenting - presentation boards analyzing- analytical drawings or diagrams recording - perceptual 1st Prize - Kinsley Stevens 2nd Prize - Caroline Coyle Honorary Mention - Abby Lundergan Honorary Mention - Gabrielle Schiltz ... ncstate_architecture View Mar 27 Open School of Architecture & AIA Triangle Joint Lecture Series Architecture and Culture Lecture Mon., Mar. 28 at 8pm (via zoom) Eleena Jamil (Malaysia) https://ej-architect.com Working within the context of Southeast Asia, Eleena Jamil's work has been founded on research into specific social and climatic imperatives of each project brief within a broader cultural framework. She explores the potential of vernacular architecture and sustainable building materials, such as bamboo and timber, in Kuala Lumpur. Lecture registration and link in bio. ... Load More Follow on Instagram College of Design Home NC State University College of Design 50 Pullen Rd Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.8302 Campus Map Contact Us Accessibility Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Sustainability Accreditation Academics Facilities Update Alumni Information Newsletter Signup Giving Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.