Toggle navigation About F-LEARN T-LEARN Contact Us T-LEARN Academics Community Mentoring Apply to T-LEARN Ask Us UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH TREVOR COLBOURN HALL, Room 205 ORLANDO, FL 32816-1906 T-LEARN T-L.E.A.R.N. is for students transferring to UCF from a state, or community college. T-L.E.A.R.N. students should have an A.A. degree. The T-L.E.A.R.N. program is best suited for students who have spent the majority of their undergraduate career at a state college prior to transferring to UCF. T-L.E.A.R.N. is a learning community established at UCF in 2016 that focuses on students’ academic success in selected majors (Engineering, Computer Science, Biology, Chemistry, Biomedical, Biochemistry, Math, Physics, Forensic Science, Statistics, Optics and Photonics, Psychology, Anthropology, Political Science or Sociology). By working with on-campus partners, T-L.E.A.R.N. provides a select group of 24 first-year, transfer students a hands-on learning experience by helping students engage in research at UCF, an R1 Doctoral University with the highest research activity and community engagement. Students in this program will: Experience a small learning community at a large research university. Coming to the second largest university in the nation can be a bit daunting to a first-year, transfer student. We provide opportunities for our T-L.E.A.R.N. students to build one-on-one relationships with faculty, staff, and other students on campus. Receive priority course registration and a scholarship. Enroll in Introduction to Research courses to produce a research proposal and poster presentation. Each course is 1 credit hour: Introduction to Research I is taken in the fall semester and Introduction to Research II is taken in the spring semester. Engage in research with a faculty mentor. Participate in academic, social, and community service activities through UCF-sponsored events to build and strengthen their network of peers. Acquire skills that will make them qualified and competitive to apply to upper-level undergraduate research programs This program is run by the Office of Undergraduate Research in collaboration with Academic Advancement Programs. Navigation About F-LEARN T-LEARN Contact Us The University of Central Florida is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award degrees at the associate, baccalaureate, master’s, specialist, and doctoral levels. Questions about the accreditation of UCF may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC’s website (www.sacscoc.org). Division of Student Learning and Academic Success I UCF