Skip to content Undergraduate Research Division of Student Learning and Academic Success Main Menu Prospective ResearchersMenu Toggle What is Research? Why do Research? How to Get Started Research Learning Communities New to UCF? Introduction to Research Courses Research Positions Database Current ResearchersMenu Toggle Overview & Current Opportunities Funding OpportunitiesMenu Toggle Student Research Grants Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship Federal Work Study Award Programs Publication and Presentation Opportunities Programs with Course Credit Summer Off Campus Research Leadership Opportunities Safety Faculty ResearchersMenu Toggle Research-Intensive Course Designation Directed Independent Research (4912) Recognition for Mentoring Effective Mentoring Practices Find Students Fund Students Professional Development AboutMenu Toggle Request a Presentation Workshops and Deadlines Mission and Vision Meet the Team Contact Us Councils ListServ Sign-Up Office of Undergraduate Research Policies Introduction to Research Courses IDS 3913 (1 credit) The Office of Undergraduate Research (OUR) supports UCF undergraduate students, across all majors, who are interested and participating in research and creative scholarship. Whether your interests lie in the humanities, physical and applied sciences, engineering, social sciences, hospitality, or business, the 1-credit, Introduction to Research course will greatly benefit you! One Course, Two Ways to Participate You have two options for applying in the Introduction to Research (IDS 3913) course. Both teach the same information, but in different ways. Summer Research Academy (SRA) – a fast-paced, 3-day event in July; ideal for students who want to begin research in the fall. SRA is offered as a Summer B for-credit course or as non-credit with pre-academy assignments two weeks before SRA meeting dates. Summer 2022 SRA will meet on July 21, 22, 23 with some online pre- and post-Academy assignments during the Summer B term. Applications are open February 15 to June 1 Introduction to Research & Creative Scholarship Opportunities (INTRO) – a semester long (fall or spring), immersive, classroom experience. This is an HIP course, Integrative-Learning Experience (IE Course Designation). Applications for Fall INTRO are open June 15 to August 1 Applications for Spring INTRO are open September 15 to December 1 Fall 2022 INTRO courses meet in-person on Wednesdays from 4:30 – 5:45 in TCH 103 and virtually through Zoom from 12:00 – 1:15 on Thursdays In both programs/courses, students will: Learn about the nature of university research and how it can expand your undergraduate experience. Meet with research faculty and other students active in research. Explore research opportunities available to undergraduate students at UCF. Prepare professionally for future research, internships/careers, and advanced degrees. Earn 1-credit hour for completing the Introduction to Research (IDS 3913) course Apply to SRA Is this course right for you? Students must apply to all Introduction to Research (IDS3913) courses to participate. By the end of the course, students will know 1) what undergraduate research is, 2) the role of a faculty mentor, 3) be prepared to choose to pursue undergraduate research, 4) and have tools to start the research journey! The benefits of taking IDS 3913 include: Build networks with potential faculty mentors, Undergraduate Research staff, and experienced undergraduate researchers Participate in UCF campus research tours and explore various fields of research Learn about UCF structured research programs and resources Create and/or build a strong resume/CV Improved communication skills Prepare for future academic interests and professional pursuits Collaborate and develop relationships with students with similar interests Discover personal interests Who are the best candidates for the Introduction to Research courses? IDS 3913 is designed for students who have not been involved in research or creative scholarship with a UCF faculty member yet. Summer Research Academy (SRA): the best candidates are incoming transfer students and current UCF students with at least one year left before graduation who are not currently involved in research. Incoming transfer students may participate in the Summer Research Academy in the summer prior to matriculating to UCF. What is expected while participating in the courses? These courses require your full engagement, commitment, and participation. IDS 3913 covers everything from how to find a UCF faculty mentor, careers and opportunities in research, and how to communicate about research. Through this course, students will hear from students, staff, and faculty who are actively involved in research or running programs to support researchers here at UCF. Students will tour UCF research facilities and meet with faculty and student researchers from across campus. Summer Research Academy (SRA): Students must: Attend all three days of the course. Complete assignments during the Summer B semester, before, during, and after the course. Fulfill all requirements set forth in the OUR Policy on Participation, including passing the class (graded pass/fail). Introduction to Research (INTRO): Students must: Attend class weekly. Complete course assignments. Pass the course with a C or higher (graded ABCDF). What happens after I complete the course? Any additional support? Summer Research Academy (SRA): Undergraduate Research (OUR) offers support to all UCF undergraduate students interested in research. OUR events include workshops, peer mentors, research grants, travel grants, and option to participate in the Student Undergraduate Research Council (SURC). See the OUR website for details. Introduction to Research (INTRO): In addition to the OUR support mentioned above, following IDS 3913, students who wish to continue their path into research or creative scholarship may receive help from staff to: Prepare for next steps toward careers or graduate/professional school. Connect to resources and tools for conducting research. Understand the available professional development for student researchers. Network with faculty researchers. May I attend both SRA and INTRO? No, a student may only participate in the IDS 3913 course once. Students will enroll in either Summer Research Academy or Introduction to Research in Fall or Spring semesters. How much do the courses cost? Summer Research Academy (SRA): Students will have waived tuition for the 1-credit, 3-day, course. Students will earn a pass or fail grade. Introduction to Research (INTRO): Students are responsible for the tuition of this 1-credit hour course; see UCF tuition & aid website. Students will earn a letter grade that will impact their grade-point average. I have questions. Who should I contact? Office of Undergraduate Research: email OUR@ucf.edu Or call 407-882-2300 What is Research? Why do Research? How to Get Started New to UCF? Research Learning Communities Introduction to Research Courses Research Positions Database Undergraduate Research Division of Student Learning and Academic Success our@ucf.edu 407-882-2300 Trevor Colbourn Hall, Suite 205 Excellence, Innovation, and Distinction ✦ Copyright © 2022 Division of Student Learning and Academic Success | College of Undergraduate Studies The University of Central Florida is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award degrees at the associate, baccalaureate, master’s, specialist, and doctoral levels. Questions about the accreditation of UCF may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC’s website (www.sacscoc.org).