Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Finance Finance PhD Academics Current Students Placement Student Life Resources Admissions More Jump to main content The Columbia Advantage Academics Finance Doctoral students are trained in major areas in finance and economics, including, asset pricing, corporate finance, continuous-time models in finance, information economics, international finance, market micro-structure, and banking. The program prepares students for careers in scholarly research, and graduates take jobs primarily in academic or research institutions, while some students opt to work in industry. Details about the coursework and research students conduct on their way to earning their doctorate can be found on the Academics page. Placement The Finance Division at Columbia Business school has a track record of training scholars who go on to become academics at Universities, including many of the world’s most prestigious institutions. Our placement success is due in part to the close working relationship that students develop with the faculty in the division. The School intentionally keeps the PhD program small making it easier for students to find faculty collaborators and thrive. See our Placement page for more information. Student Life The Columbia Business School doctoral community consists of 125 students across six programs. The program attracts exceptional students from all over the world who are looking to develop research skills under the tutelage of faculty experts. Students come to the School for the exceptional training but also because they value the diversity, creativity, entrepreneurship and social tolerance that NYC offers. See here for more about student life. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels