Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Research Opportunities Predoctoral Fellowships Alumni and Placements Current Predoctoral Fellows Postdoctoral Fellowships Summer Research Internship Summer Intern Placements Past Summer Research Projects 2019 Projects 2018 Projects 2017 Projects 2016 Projects 2015 Projects 2014 Projects CUBS Program CDBE Award More Summer Research Internship Predoctoral Research Summer Intern Placements Past Summer Research Projects This highly selective program provides twenty interns the opportunity to work with Columbia Business School's faculty on a research project in finance, economics, marketing, management, decision sciences, operations, accounting, or data analytics. The work may include literature reviews, data collection and cleaning, web scraping, and statistical analysis. Some projects may require skills in advanced analytics, machine learning, natural language processing, and artificial intelligence. Behavioral interns may be staffed on multiple projects: conducting literature reviews, coding data, performing statistical analyses, and running experiments through the Behavioral Research lab. In addition, the interns take part in a weekly research seminar series with faculty, allowing the interns to be exposed to the variety of research performed in the business school. The experience culminates with each intern presenting their work to the CBS research community. The internship is a full-time salaried program. Our current plan is to run the internship program in person this year (pending university approval). If the program is run in person, on-campus housing will be provided. We will provide updates here and update you through the interview process. The internship will run from June 1, 2022 through August 5, 2022 (final dates to be confirmed). Successful Applicant Profile This is a multi-disciplinary program and candidates from all backgrounds, including business, statistics, mathematics, engineering, computer science, the physical sciences, and the social and behavioral sciences are encouraged to apply. We are especially interested in applicants who are underrepresented minorities. Prospective interns should demonstrate an enthusiasm for research and intellectual curiosity. They are expected to have excellent communication skills, basic knowledge of statistics and/or econometrics, and familiarity with statistical and computational software packages (e.g., Matlab, R, STATA, SPSS) and scripting languages such as Python or R. Candidates interested in working with behavioral researchers should have experience conducting experiments and coding data. The internship program is designed for undergraduate students in their sophomore or junior year and first year master’s students. Exceptional students from other classes are considered on a case-by-case basis. Students from international universities and international students in the US are eligible to apply. For more information Please email us at [email protected]. Summer Research Internship Application Instructions All positions have been filled Please check back next fall for the 2023 program application Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats