Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Us Mission and Values Location and Hours Meet Our Team Partners and Collaborations Stories and News Programs ConnecTU Summer Experience Disability Community Town Hall Equity Speaker Series Equity Thursdays First Fridays Mentor-Mentee Day PossePlus Retreat Proud TU Be First Mentoring Program QT Chats Student of the Month Recognition Tulane Idea Symposium DACA and Undocumented Programming Our Students BIPOC College Track First Generation College Individuals with Disabilities LGBTQ+ Posse Scholars Undocumented/DACAmented Resources Recommended Device Assistance Form Service Request Form Emergency and Grant Funding Resource Lending Library UndocuAlly Training Additional Campus Resources Digital Inclusion Resources Get Involved Events Calendar Student Employment Opportunities Faculty/Staff Opportunities Make a Gift Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... CENTER FOR ACADEMIC EQUITY Center for Academic Equity Newcomb-Tulane College’s Center for Academic Equity is committed to supporting you, our students from historically underrepresented groups, with unique learning opportunities and generous need-based support for the entirety of your time at Tulane. The center’s staff, its campus partners, and foundational partners offer additional mentorship and support to help you prepare the academic, social, and professional skills needed to thrive on campus and beyond. Select a CategoryQuick Links About Us Programs Our Students Resources Get Involved Discover Your Path Get Involved Events Calendar Student Employment Opportunities Faculty/Staff Opportunities Make a Gift Programs Adulting 101 Workshops ConnecTU Summer Experience Disability Community Town Hall Equity Thursdays First Fridays Proud TU Be First Mentoring QT Chats Student of the Month Recognition Tulane Idea Symposium Undocumented Visibility Week Resources Service Request Form Emergency and Grant Funding Resource Lending Library UndocuALLY Training Additional Campus Resources A Letter from the Director CAE Director Dr. Paula N. Booke looks forward to the summer terms and for the opportunity to collaborate with you and help you reach your academic goals. She wants you to know what resources are available to you and how partnering with CAE can enhance your Tulane experience. Read the Fall 2021 Director's Letter. Academic Equity Spotlights Campus Partner: The Office of Gender & Sexual Diversity Part of the Carolyn Barber Pierre Center for Intercultural Life, OGSD envisions a campus community that is accountable and committed to eliminating heterosexism and cissexism through an intersectional, racial justice, and decolonization approach. Student of the Month: William Bai William Bai is this month's Student of the Month! Click or tap to learn more about William. The Center for Academic Equity's Resource Lending Library provided 94 students with course-based learning tools such as textbooks, calculators, and course codes for free in 2020-2021. The Center for Academic Equity awarded 80 grants to support undergraduate research, conference travel, internships, and special projects in 2020-2021. Connect with Tulane Center for Academic Equity Follow the Center for Academic Equity (@tulanecae) on Instagram for realtime updates on what's happening with the center. Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb-Tulane College Center for Academic Equity Richardson Building Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 Maps & Directions Newcomb-Tulane College Our Students Programs Events Calendar News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University