Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu EMBA Academics Classes Academic Calendar Core Curriculum Electives International Seminar Cross-Registration for Non-EMBA Students Cluster System Degree Requirements Faculty Residence Period Options & Locations EMBA-NY Calendar Sample Schedules EMBA Global Student Life Speakers & Conferences Student Organizations Support Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Application Deadlines Application Requirements Sponsorship Information for Sponsors List of Sponsors Review Process Events Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply Connect with EMBA Connect with Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid University Employees More Frequently Asked Questions about the EMBA EMBA Application Deadlines Application Requirements Sponsorship Review Process Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply Connect with EMBA If you have a question that isn’t answered here, or if you need further clarification, we encourage you to call our Admissions team at 212-854-1961 or send an e-mail to [email protected] You can also skip to information re-applying. How do I apply? The application processes for all of our EMBA options are handled online. We suggest you begin with the application requirements. Can I apply to more than one of Columbia Business School’s MBA programs at once? Columbia does not accept simultaneous applications to its MBA programs. Please apply to the program that most closely reflects your professional, personal, and geographic interests and experience. Admissions officers will be happy to offer guidance with your choice. If you wish to explore the possibility of admission to a different program during the application process, it is possible to request that the Admissions Committee discuss your suitability for a different program. We reserve the right to withdraw offers of admission to any candidate who does not disclose a prior application to any other Columbia MBA program. May I apply to Columbia if I already have an MBA? If you already have an MBA or similar degree in management studies, you are eligible to apply to the Columbia Executive MBA Program. However, we would not encourage you to do so unless you have a compelling reason. You may wish to review our course offerings and talk with an admissions officer to see how much of the program would be repetitious. Then, if you decide to apply, you should make a compelling case in your application to explain why you want to have another MBA education. Must I take the GMAT, GRE, or Executive Assessment (EA) before I apply? Yes, all EMBA candidates are required to submit a valid standardized test score as part of the application process. While important, test scores are only one data point used in evaluating candidates. For EMBA, work experience is the primary factor in our consideration. Learn more about the EMBA Program’s GMAT/GRE/EA requirement. May I request a fee waiver? Fee waivers for EMBA applications are available to active duty US military personnel. Proof of current service is required. Applicants who qualify for a fee waiver should create or log into the application and navigate to the "Review" page. Upon accessing the Fee Waiver Request form, applicants will provide proof of service and explain their need for a fee waiver. Qualified applicants who have already submitted an application should email [email protected] to request a Fee Waiver Request form. Please allow up to one week for an update to your online status regarding a fee waiver request. How do I schedule an interview? The invitation-only interview is a chance for us to get to know you beyond your written application and for you to ask questions. Once you submit your application, you may be contacted to schedule a time to meet. After submitting my application, when will I receive a decision? Our goal is either to invite you for an interview or deny admission within six weeks of a completed application being received. Our goal for interviewed applicants is to render a final decision within two weeks of the interview report being completed. Check your application status. Do I need to be sponsored? Sponsorship is viewed in two ways: Time away from work to attend class, and financial support. At a minimum, applicants for the Friday/Saturday option must submit written authorization from their employer indicating permission to attend class on workdays and to complete the program. Applicants for the Saturday-only option do not require employer sponsorship of any kind. Many EMBA students also obtain corporate financial sponsorship, which ranges from partial to full support, but this is not required. Can I sponsor myself? Yes. If you are an independent professional or consultant or the head of your own firm, you may write your own sponsorship letter. Applicants for the Friday/Saturday option who are employed by an organization that can endorse their candidacy, but not provide financial support, may meet the financial requirements themselves. In this case, the organization must still provide a letter of endorsement stating that the applicant will be guaranteed time away from work to attend all classes and required program activities. Saturday-only students do not require sponsorship of time off or financial sponsorship. Can I apply without being gainfully employed? Employment is a requirement of matriculation in the Executive MBA Program, and candidates are expected to be fully employed at the time of application. Should your employment change during the application process, the Admissions Office must be promptly informed. If you find yourself unemployed during the program for any reason, you are required to notify the EMBA Program Office immediately. You may use the resources available to EMBA students, including Career Management Center resources, to aid in your search for employment. How much does the EMBA Program cost? Learn more about tuition and financial aid. Are there scholarships for the program? There are no scholarships or grants offered directly through Columbia University for the Executive MBA Program. There are, however, free online scholarship search engines that may be helpful in identifying external sources of scholarships. Is financial aid available? Financial aid is available through federal and private educational loans. Learn more about student loan options for Executive MBA students. How much will I be able to customize my curriculum through electives? Our wide selection of electives allows you to customize your curriculum. Please note: EMBA students take a total of 11 electives, primarily in their second year. Elective offerings are scheduled with the academic divisions. Typically, you are offered a selection of 30 electives over three terms. If your schedule and course capacity permits, you may also take electives from the Full-Time MBA Program or a maximum of two courses from Columbia’s other professional schools (Law, International and Public Affairs, Journalism, Medicine, Public Health, etc.). Electives are undertaken after you have completed all core courses. More detailed information about the elective offerings of EMBA-Global Americas and Europe and EMBA-Global Asia can be found on their respective sites. What career management services are available? As an EMBA student, the Career Management Center is designed to provide ongoing professional career development services geared to your needs. You’ll find career-related workshops, virtual programs, one-on-one advising, an extensive website, and various networking opportunities and events. These resources are dedicated to enhancing professional development for both active job seekers and students who intend to continue working with their sponsoring employers. Learn more about career management for EMBA students. After I'm admitted, can I defer to a future term? As a matter of policy, Columbia Business School does not defer admitted students to future terms. What does a typical EMBA calendar look like for the length of the program? EMBA students are on a rigorous schedule, given that they also hold full-time jobs. View calendars of sample EMBA terms. Re-applications Please note that candidates may only apply once to a given term of entry. Candidates may not apply twice to the same term of entry. The Admissions Office retains all applications for one year after a decision is rendered. If you are reapplying no more than 12 months from your initial term of entry to Columbia Business School, the checklist below will help ensure that you submit everything the Admissions Committee will need to reassess your candidacy. For example if you applied for August 2021 you will be considered a reapplicant for May 2022 or August 2022. If you are reapplying more than 12 months after the initial term of entry, you must submit a new, fully complete application. Please submit the following to the Admissions Committee for your re-application. If you have trouble starting a new application, please contact the Admissions Office for assistance. Re-application fee: US$250. Submit a new company sponsorship letter. Submit one new recommendation letter, preferably from your current employer. If you have already used your current employer for a recommendation, please choose someone else in a supervisory role or a client. Update the employment history, educational history, activities, and general information sections of the online application. How will you finance your MBA? Submit transcripts of any additional courses you have taken since your previous application. Please remember to indicate the dates and self-reported scores of the standardized tests that you wish to be considered in your admissions decision. Please note: test scores are valid for five years. Your scores must be valid at the time of application submission. Reapplicants are not required to submit three new essays. Only the reapplicant essay is required: How have you enhanced your candidacy since your previous application? Please detail your progress since you last applied and reiterate how you plan to achieve your immediate and long term post-MBA professional goals. (Maximum 500 words). EMBA Sidebar Links Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application EMBA Application Deadlines EMBA Application Deadlines (applications go live in August) EMBA-NY Saturday: May 2023 Entry Early January 11, 2023 Final February 15, 2023 EMBA-NY Fri/Sat: August 2023 Entry Early March 22, 2023 Final May 24, 2023 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats