Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu EMBA Academics Classes Academic Calendar Core Curriculum Electives International Seminar Cross-Registration for Non-EMBA Students Cluster System Degree Requirements Faculty Residence Period Options & Locations EMBA-NY Calendar Sample Schedules EMBA Global Student Life Speakers & Conferences Student Organizations Support Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Application Deadlines Application Requirements Sponsorship Information for Sponsors List of Sponsors Review Process Events Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply Connect with EMBA Connect with Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid University Employees More EMBA-NY Provides Two Empowering Options EMBA EMBA-NY Calendar Sample Schedules EMBA Global Columbia’s flagship Executive MBA program — EMBA-NY — is designed to accommodate the needs of high-achieving executives. We offer two distinct schedule options: Friday/Saturday and Saturday. The Friday/Saturday Option Meets biweekly on Friday and Saturdays, except holidays and breaks. A sample schedule can be viewed here. Length of program: Five terms over 20 months, beginning in August. The calendar for the incoming Friday/Saturday class can be viewed here. Students are grouped into clusters and learning teams, providing a supportive community that engages academic learning with a real-world business dynamic. Employer sponsorship of time is required; financial sponsorship is welcomed, though not required. The Career Management Center assigns a team to focus exclusively on EMBA students. The team provides access to live and online seminars, one-on-one coaching, and job listings specific to experienced-level executives. Following the core curriculum, you’ll select from a wide range of electives. These including biweekly classes, intensive weeklong courses, and international seminars held around the world. You will also have access to full-time MBA courses and courses at Columbia’s other top graduate schools. The Saturday Option Perhaps your career is accelerating rapidly or you work in a fast-changing industry where time away can result in missed opportunities. The Saturday option may be the solution. You get the same curriculum, instruction, and networking exposure as the School’s other MBA paths — without taking time away from the workplace. Here’s an overview: Meets weekly on Saturdays, except holidays and breaks. A sample schedule can be viewed here. Length of program: Six terms over 24 months, beginning in May. The calendar for the incoming Saturday class can be viewed here. Employer sponsorship — either through time off or financial support — is welcomed, though not required. Features the same collaborative, supportive cluster system as other EMBA programs. After completing the core curriculum, choose electives from our Saturday menu and from a wide range of offerings. These include biweekly classes, intensive weeklong courses, international seminars, full-time MBA courses, and courses throughout Columbia University’s other graduate programs. You’ll benefit from full access to the Career Management Center. EMBA Sidebar Links Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application EMBA Application Deadlines EMBA Application Deadlines (applications go live in August) EMBA-NY Saturday: May 2023 Entry Early January 11, 2023 Final February 15, 2023 EMBA-NY Fri/Sat: August 2023 Entry Early March 22, 2023 Final May 24, 2023 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats