Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Research Opportunities Predoctoral Fellowships Alumni and Placements Current Predoctoral Fellows Postdoctoral Fellowships Summer Research Internship Summer Intern Placements Past Summer Research Projects 2019 Projects 2018 Projects 2017 Projects 2016 Projects 2015 Projects 2014 Projects CUBS Program CDBE Award More Predoctoral Fellowships Predoctoral Research Alumni and Placements Current Predoctoral Fellows The Predoctoral Fellowship Program at Columbia Business School provides an opportunity to gain experience in academic research, with a special focus on fields such as Accounting; Decision, Risk & Operations; Economics; Finance; Management; and Marketing. The two-year program helps fellows earn admittance to PhD programs and prepares them for successful graduate-school careers. Our alumni have been admitted to PhD programs in top-tier business schools, economics, sociology, and other graduate programs across the country, including Columbia Business School. Under the guidance of CBS faculty, the predoctoral fellow plays an active role in multiple research projects that are in various stages, from conception through publication. The work may include but is not limited to: webscraping, cleaning and merging data, literature reviews, and statistical analysis. When predoctoral fellows make significant intellectual contributions to a research project, they may be offered authorship. In addition to being mentored by CBS' leading researchers, predoctoral fellows have the opportunity to take one course per semester in disciplines such as sociology, psychology, business, economics, mathematics, computer science, statistics, and data science. Fellows are expected to attend research seminars and are integrated into the CBS research community. In the second year of the program, a faculty member helps guide the predoctoral fellow through the PhD application process. General Requirements Candidates should be intellectually curious, have the ability to learn new skills independently, and have a demonstrated interest in research. A bachelor’s degree is required. Candidates must have demonstrated strong quantitative skills or have an undergraduate or graduate degree in economics or finance, or in a quantitative discipline such as electrical engineering, computer science, operations research, mathematics, or statistics. It is expected that the candidate will apply to a PhD program after completion of the first year, although some students ultimately take jobs in industry. Candidates should have advanced knowledge of and motivation to learn more technical skills pertaining to the use of statistical and mathematical software and programming languages, including Stata, R, Python, and MATLAB. Having a background in advanced mathematics (linear algebra, optimization) and statistics (regression analysis) is helpful. Knowledge of other programming languages (SAS, SQL, C/C++) and software packages (Tableau, ArcGIS, etc.) is considered a plus. For more information Please email us at [email protected]. Predoctoral Research Sidebar Links Stay in touch DRO Predoc Jobs Marketing Predoc Jobs Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats