Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About About the Provost Academic Affairs Leadership and Staff Map and Directions Organizational Chart Publications Schools and Units Academic Affairs Academic Personnel Review For Prospective Faculty Faculty Hiring and Appointments Faculty180 Policies Faculty Search Guide Honors & Awards Honorary Degrees Oliver Fund Award for Excellence in Faculty Mentoring University Teaching Awards Faculty Development Center for Engaged Learning and Teaching Faculty Development and Mentoring Initiative Funding Programs for Faculty Meta-Analysis Systematic Review Support (MARS) Program Supporting Impactful Publications (SIP) Program Life at Tulane Academic News Health and Wellness Howard-Tilton Memorial Library Learning Communities Newcomb Art Museum Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Reily Center Student Affairs Title IX About Academic Affairs Honors & Awards Faculty Development Life at Tulane Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... OFFICE OF THE PROVOST Office of the Provost Promoting Excellence in Research, Scholarship, Art-Making, Teaching, Professional Service, and Community Engagement. Faculty Search Guide Quick ViewLearn More National Center for Faculty Development and Diversity (NCFDD) Quick ViewLearn More Interfolio Quick Tips Quick ViewLearn More Faculty Development and Mentoring Initiative Quick ViewLearn More Faculty Search Guide Learn More National Center for Faculty Development and Diversity (NCFDD) Learn More Quick Tips Learn More Faculty Development and Mentoring Initiative Learn More Provost Robin Forman is the Chief Academic Officer of the University. Collaborating with the Deans of the Colleges and Schools, as well as with the Deans of Libraries and Students, and working with an office cadre comprising faculty and staff colleagues, the Provost oversees the appointment, advancement, and retention of faculty; the articulation and deployment of all academic and research programs; and the development of strategic plans to secure the University’s enduring excellence in research and scholarship, art-making and design, instruction and mentorship, professional service and leadership, and community engagement. Reporting directly to the President of the University, Provost Robin Forman is also a member of the President’s Cabinet, joining with all the members of the senior leadership team in pursuit of broad-based institutional objectives and goals. Tulane University is a member of the Association of American Universities (AAU) and is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). Tulane University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, doctorate, and professional degrees. Contact the Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Tulane University. Tulane University is committed to assisting all members of the community in providing for their own safety and security. The annual security and fire safety report is available on the TUPD website at publicsafety.tulane.edu. Click here for the full Jeanne Clery Act statement. Link to Tulane Home Page Office of Academic Affairs and Provost 6823 St. Charles Avenue 200 Gibson Hall New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5261 provost@tulane.edu Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University