Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu EMBA Academics Classes Academic Calendar Core Curriculum Electives International Seminar Cross-Registration for Non-EMBA Students Cluster System Degree Requirements Faculty Residence Period Options & Locations EMBA-NY Calendar Sample Schedules EMBA Global Student Life Speakers & Conferences Student Organizations Support Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Application Deadlines Application Requirements Sponsorship Information for Sponsors List of Sponsors Review Process Events Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply Connect with EMBA Connect with Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid University Employees More Class Profile EMBA Application Deadlines Application Requirements Sponsorship Review Process Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply Connect with EMBA Professionals from a wide range of industries are attracted to Columbia Business School — the only Ivy League school at the center of business. When admitted to the EMBA Program, you’ll join high achievers who work in banking, real estate, media, healthcare, and many other professions. A network forms. By learning together and interacting closely, you and your classmates will gain a distinct advantage that extends far beyond the classroom. The relationships that you develop will form your professional network for years to come. Many perspectives. The diversity of perspectives in the classroom will lead to fresh insights and give you an ability to look at challenges from many angles. Below is the EMBA student profile for 2021. Class Makeup Total class size 275, divided in four clusters Friday/Saturday class size 144, divided in two clusters Saturday class size 131, divided in two clusters Women 36% International 23% Average age 33 Average years of work experience 10 Race and Ethnicity The Department of the Interior via the Office of Civil Rights provides federal guidelines for maintaining, collecting, and presenting data on race and ethnicity. Columbia Business School is required to follow these standards which allow students to self-identify their ethnicity and race, with the option to select more than one race and/or ethnicity. The racial and ethnic categories listed here reflect those included in our application process, per federal guidelines. US race / ethnicity shown as a percent of US citizens and permanent residents. Federal Reporting Guidelines Multi-Dimensional Reporting American Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian, Other Pacific Islander 0 0% 4 2% Asian American 74 30% 80 33% Black/African American 16 7% 20 8% Hispanic/Latinx 27 11% 27 11% White 112 46% 142 58% Multi-Racial 9 4% - - Did Not Report 5 2% 5 2% Federal Reporting Guidelines The second column reflects our student demographic data as reported based on federal government guidelines. Per these guidelines, all students who identify as Hispanic / Latinx and any other race are represented as Hispanic / Latinx only. Students who identify with more than one race are represented as Multi-Race only. The columns add to 100% but may be slightly lower or higher due to rounding. Multi-Dimensional Reporting In the third column, we share students' full racial and ethnic identities to more inclusively reflect the racial / ethnic groups with which they identify. As such, in the second column, students with multi-racial / ethnic identities are represented in more than one row, meaning the column add to more than 100%. Industry Background Industry % Financial Services 33 Technology 14 Healthcare 10 Other 9 Marketing & Media 8 Consulting 7 Real Estate 5 Retail/Wholesale 4 Government, Military & Non-Profit 3 Entertainment & Leisure 3 Education 2 Energy 2 Consumer Products 1 The sections add to 100% but may be slightly lower or higher due to rounding. Sponsorship Sponsorship % Company (full) 10 Company (partial) 40 Self 50 The sections add to 100% but may be slightly lower or higher due to rounding. EMBA Sidebar Links Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application EMBA Application Deadlines EMBA Application Deadlines (applications go live in August) EMBA-NY Saturday: May 2023 Entry Early January 11, 2023 Final February 15, 2023 EMBA-NY Fri/Sat: August 2023 Entry Early March 22, 2023 Final May 24, 2023 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats