Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Mendelson Center Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Application Process About the Mendelson Center More Frequently Asked Questions How do I major in financial economics and complete the Special Concentration in Business Management? You must take an extra elective from the financial economics list to make up for the overlapping financial accounting or corporate finance class. Does IEOR E2261 Intro to Accounting & Finance count for BUSI W3013 Financial Accounting? No, the two courses are not the same. Only BUSI W3013 counts for the Special Concentration in Business Management. Can I apply for the Special Concentration in Business Management while I am studying abroad? Yes, a link to the application will be available on the application information page. Are Barnard students eligible? Barnard students are not eligible for acceptance into the Special Concentration in Business Management. They are able to take classes in the program for elective credit, but Barnard does not recognize the special concentration as a formal program of study. What do you look for in the application? We consider grades, difficulty of coursework taken, essay, faculty reference, work experience, and co-curricular activities. The Admissions committee will be particularly interested to see the rationale for pursuing the Special Concentration in Business Management that you include in your essay — i.e., why you think it will be particularly beneficial for you in light of your academic and professional plans. Do I need to take all of the pre-requisites before applying to the concentration? No, you are not required to complete all of the pre-requisites before applying for the Special Concentration in Business Management. We require that applicants receive a B+ or better in at least one, but preferably two, prerequisite program courses in the following three required areas before applying: statistics, economics, and psychology. Students who have completed only one prerequisite at the time of application must be currently enrolled in at least one other; acceptance is conditional on achieving a grade of B+ or higher in the second course. What should I do if I am interested in applying to the program, but I have already used the Pass/D/Fail option for one of the courses that is required as a prerequisite or elective course? All classes for the Special Concentration in Business Management must be taken for a letter grade. Your options are: 1) Petition to uncover the grade; 2) Take a different course that is acceptable (e.g., students who took ECON W1105 as Pass/Fail may take ECON W3211 or ECON W3213 instead); 3) Retake the course for a letter grade. Exceptions to this policy Spring 2020: Given the mandatory Pass/Fail policy across Columbia University for Spring 2020, all courses taken Pass/Fail in Spring 2020 will count toward the Special Concentration prerequisite, core, or elective courses as if they were letter grades. Fall 2020: Columbia College and General Studies students are able to elect the Pass/D/Fail option for one class this semester without restriction. The course chosen for this grading option can fulfill a prerequisite, core, or elective requirement for the Special Concentration. When does the application open? The 2022 application opened on December 21, 2021. The application deadline is February 18, 2022 at 11:59 PM ET. All applications will be reviewed after the deadline. All application decisions will be released on March 11, 2022. Have additional questions? E-mail us at [email protected]. Mendelson Application Links Apply now Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats