Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Mendelson Center Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Application Process About the Mendelson Center More Application Process The Special Concentration in Business Management combines financial and managerial coursework — taught by Columbia Business School professors — with electives in economics, psychology, and sociology. To pursue a Special Concentration in Business Management, students apply and are accepted into the program by Columbia College and Columbia Business School. To apply for the Special Concentration, please fill out an application form here. The application deadline is February 18, 2022. Eligibility To apply for the Special Concentration in Business Management, students must meet three requirements: Be of sophomore or junior standing Have a cumulative GPA of 3.4 or higher Have received a B+ or better in at least one, but preferably two, prerequisite program courses in the following three required areas: statistics, economics, and psychology. Students who have completed only one prerequisite at the time of application must be currently enrolled in at least one other; acceptance is conditional on achieving a grade of B+ or higher in the second course. Exceptions to this policy Spring 2020: Given the mandatory Pass/Fail policy across Columbia University for Spring 2020, all courses taken Pass/Fail in Spring 2020 will count toward the Special Concentration prerequisite, core, or elective courses as if they were letter grades. Fall 2020: Columbia College and General Studies students are able to elect the Pass/D/Fail option for one class this semester without restriction. The course chosen for this grading option can fulfill a prerequisite, core, or elective requirement for the Special Concentration. Application Materials Application form Current class schedule Short answer essay Unofficial transcript Resume Reference from a Columbia University professor Mendelson Application Links Apply now Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats