Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MBA Academics Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Student Life Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Campus The Neighborhood Explore NYC Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Review Process Events Class Visit Program Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Tuition & Financial Aid Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees More Black Business Students Association MBA Student Organizations Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Student Profiles The Black Business Students Association (BBSA), established in 1973, promotes the well-being of the BBSA members, serves the community, and assists with professional development. The BBSA provides Black business school students personal, professional, and academic support for a successful Columbia Business School experience. Through programming such as the BBSA first-year Welcome Retreat, Alumni Mentorship Program, and recruiting panels, among other activities, BBSA membership is an important resource and community for Columbia Business School's Black business school students. The BBSA also works closely with the Office of Admissions to host events for prospective Black business school students. Diversity Matters, an annual afternoon event highlighting diversity and inclusion at Columbia Business School, will be hosted in conjunction with the Black Business Students Association, Columbia Women in Business, Cluster Q, the Hispanic Business Association, and the Military in Business Association this fall. “I want people to feel like if they have questions about an issue impacting the black community, like a police shooting, that BBSA is an organization they can come to and find someone who’s willing to talk. An important caveat is that, even within BBSA, there is a lot of diversity of experience. We aren’t always aligned politically. That’s what makes this organization great. We use our diversity to push conversations forward, to create spaces for people to feel open to talk about things.” Kathryn Brown ’18 “The Columbia experience is dynamic and enriching. It requires a rigorous assessment of your assumptions and ideals. Have expectations for what you want to gain from the program, and expect the program to surpass those expectations. Stretch beyond your core competencies, and explore courses that offer growth and new perspectives. Keep an open mind while relishing the journey and making lifelong friends.” Jared Richardson '17 “I am proud of my Caribbean American heritage, empathize with the generational experiences of my African American peers, but at my core am vigilant for society to move towards a place of understanding what it means when someone identifies as "Black in America." What better place than CBS is there to engage in these conversations — where we are being shaped into tomorrow's business leaders, while simultaneously learning more about ourselves and each other.” Onika Williams '18 Together with the Office of Admissions, the BBSA and the Hispanic Business Association (HBA), will also hold a full-day event for Black, African American, Hispanic, and Latino prospective students this fall, Spotlight On: BBSA & HBA. Spotlight On: BBSA & HBA will provide insight into the BBSA and HBA community at Columbia Business School and allow prospective students to learn more about student life, academics, financial aid, and the admissions process. To learn more, we encourage you to reach out to the BBSA. Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application Application Deadlines January 2023 Entry Final September 28, 2022 August 2023 Entry Early September 28, 2022 Merit Fellowship January 11, 2023 Final April 5, 2023 Deferred Enrollment Program Final April 15, 2022 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats