Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MBA Academics Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Student Life Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Campus The Neighborhood Explore NYC Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Review Process Events Class Visit Program Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Tuition & Financial Aid Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees More Military in Business Association MBA Student Organizations Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Student Profiles The Military in Business Association (MIBA), is the veteran community on campus for Columbia Business School students. MIBA builds a support system for veterans at Columbia Business School and helps its members tackle the challenges of business school and a creating a successful transition to a career outside of the military. The education, mentorship, and community provided by MIBA allows veteran students to make the most of their Columbia Business School experience. MIBA works to connect with veteran alumni of Columbia Business School, provide access to career recruitment, and spearhead events to help advocate for veterans and educate classmates about the military. Additionally, MIBA offers outreach to prospective veteran students and works closely with the Office of Admissions. I think at some point you just get tired. Not tired of the institution, but you get exhausted—physically, mentally, and emotionally exhausted. Just being an active service member in the last 10 years, you're just constantly deploying. If you're not deploying, you're training to deploy. In the Marine Corps, we were deploying so often that I found that it was difficult making meaningful relationships personally and professionally. Your entire life you think the military is your life's work, and if you find out it's not, what do you do? For me Columbia Business School was the perfect vehicle for me to find inspiration and redefine who I am. Philong Duong '17 Capt, US Marine Corps When a roadside bomb goes off you always see the flash and then you actually feel the impact because the light travels faster. I always thought I'd have profound moments in situations like this. In one instance, when that happened I just remember being very mad in that split second. I thought that I just didn't want to have a life where I was focused on anger. I enjoyed helping people, more so than the combat aspect of the deployments. I thought, what else could I do to impact lives? That’s why I chose to apply to CBS and focus on social enterprise. Ron Bucca '17 Sgt. First Class, US Army Special Forces Diversity Matters, an annual afternoon event highlighting diversity and inclusion at Columbia Business School, will be hosted in conjunction with the Black Business Students Association, Columbia Women in Business, Cluster Q, the Hispanic Business Association, and the Military in Business Association this fall. Together with the Office of Admissions, MIBA will also hold a full-day event for veterans and active duty military personnel interested in learning more about joining the Columbia Business School community this fall. Spotlight On: MIBA will provide insight into the veteran community at Columbia Business School and allow prospective students to learn more about student life, academics, financial aid, and the admissions process. To learn more, we encourage you to reach out to MIBA. Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application Application Deadlines January 2023 Entry Final September 28, 2022 August 2023 Entry Early September 28, 2022 Merit Fellowship January 11, 2023 Final April 5, 2023 Deferred Enrollment Program Final April 15, 2022 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats