Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Home Search About Organization Funding Statistics Academy Scholars Program FAQs People Publications Special Events Contact Us Dedicated to increasing our knowledge of the culture, history, and institutions of the world's major regions and countries. Academy Scholars Program Applications for the 2022 postdoc fellowship closed on October 1, 2021. Applications for the 2023 postdoc fellowship will open on June 15, 2022. Latest News In Memoriam: Dru Gladney, 1956-2022 Thursday, March 17, 2022 Gözde Güran's dissertation receives the 2021 MESA Malcolm H. Kerr Dissertation Award Sunday, October 31, 2021 Chantal Berman's dissertation co-receives the 2021 APSA Gabriel A. Almond Award Sunday, October 3, 2021 Christopher L. Carter's dissertation receives the 2021 APSA Juan Linz Prize for Best Dissertation in the Comparative Study of Democracy Sunday, October 3, 2021 Academy Scholars Program: Applications for the 2022 postdoc fellowship closed on October 1, 2021. Applications for the 2023 postdoc fellowship will open on June 1, 2022. Saturday, October 2, 2021 Gözde Güran's dissertation receives the 2021 ASA Dissertation Award Tuesday, August 10, 2021 Professor David R. Armitage appointed as a Senior Scholar of the Harvard Academy Friday, July 2, 2021 Professor George Paul Meiu appointed as a Senior Scholar of the Harvard Academy Friday, July 2, 2021 More Title IX Investigation February 4, 2021: Report of the External Review Committee to Review Sexual Harassment May 9, 2019: Outcome of Title IX Investigation April 18, 2018: Open Letter from the Harvard Academy for International and Area Studies April 2, 2018: Joint Statement of the Academy Scholars and Senior Scholars Academy Scholar Spotlight Yang-Yang Zhou Academy Scholar, The Harvard Academy for International and Area Studies. Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science, University of British Columbia; CIFAR Azrieli Global Scholar, CIFAR. Research interests: Migration; refugees; conflict; political economy of development; nationalism; identity politics; and the Global South. Personal website Podcast 1727 Cambridge Street Room E108 Cambridge, MA 02138 yangyang.zhou@ubc.ca p: (617) 495-3367 Senior Scholar Spotlight Timothy J. Colton Chair, The Harvard Academy for International and Area Studies; Chair, Canada Program Faculty Steering Committee; Chair, Weatherhead Research Cluster on Regions in a Multipolar World; Faculty Associate. Morris and Anna Feldberg Professor of Government and Russian Studies, Department of Government, Harvard University. Research interests: Political leadership in post-Communist countries; parties and mass politics in Russia; and the interaction between domestic and international politics in the post-Soviet space. Personal website 1730 Cambridge Street Cambridge, MA 02138 tcolton@fas.harvard.edu p: (617) 495-4345 Recent Publications Choudhury, Rishad. Forthcoming. Hajj between Empires: Pilgrimage and Political Culture after the Mughals, 1739-1857. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Gewirtz, Julian. Forthcoming. Never Turn Back: China and the Forbidden History of the 1980s. Cambridge: Harvard University Press. Abstract The history the Chinese Communist Party has tried to erase: the dramatic political debates of the 1980s that could have put China on a path to greater openness. On a hike in Guangdong Province in January 1984, Deng Xiaoping was warned that his path was a steep and treacherous one. “Never turn back,” the Chinese leader replied. That became a mantra as the government forged ahead with reforms in the face of heated contestation over the nation’s future. For a time, everything was on the table, including democratization and China’s version of socialism. But deliberation came to a sudden halt in spring 1989, with protests and purges, massacre and repression. Since then, Beijing has worked intensively to suppress the memory of this era of openness. Julian Gewirtz recovers the debates of the 1980s, tracing the Communist Party’s diverse attitudes toward markets, state control, and sweeping technological change, as well as freewheeling public argument over political liberalization. The administration considered bold proposals from within the party and without, including separation between the party and the state, empowering the private sector, and establishing an independent judiciary. After Tiananmen, however, Beijing systematically erased these discussions of alternative directions. Using newly available Chinese sources, Gewirtz details how the leadership purged the key reformist politician Zhao Ziyang, quashed the student movement, recast the transformations of the 1980s as the inevitable products of consensus, and indoctrinated China and the international community in the new official narrative. Never Turn Back offers a revelatory look at how different China’s rise might have been and at the foundations of strongman rule under Xi Jinping, who has intensified the policing of history to bolster his own authority. Gratien, Chris. 2022. The Unsettled Plain: An Environmental History of the Late Ottoman Frontier. Stanford: Stanford University Press. Abstract The Unsettled Plain studies agrarian life in the Ottoman Empire to understand the making of the modern world. Over the course of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, the environmental transformation of the Ottoman countryside became intertwined with migration and displacement. Muslim refugees, mountain nomads, families deported in the Armenian Genocide, and seasonal workers from all over the empire endured hardship, exile, and dispossession. Their settlement and survival defined new societies forged in the provincial spaces of the late Ottoman frontier. Through these movements, Chris Gratien reconstructs the remaking of Çukurova, a region at the historical juncture of Anatolia and Syria, and illuminates radical changes brought by the modern state, capitalism, war, and technology. Drawing on both Ottoman Turkish and Armenian sources, Gratien brings rural populations into the momentous events of the period: Ottoman reform, Mediterranean capitalism, the First World War, and Turkish nation-building. Through the ecological perspectives of everyday people in Çukurova, he charts how familiar facets of quotidian life, like malaria, cotton cultivation, labor, and leisure, attained modern manifestations. As the history of this pivotal region hidden on the geopolitical map reveals, the remarkable ecological transformation of late Ottoman society configured the trajectory of the contemporary societies of the Middle East. Mazzuca, Sebastián. 2021. Latecomer State Formation: Political Geography and Capacity Failure in Latin America. New Haven: Yale University Press. Abstract Latin American governments systematically fail to provide the key public goods for their societies to prosper. Sebastián Mazzuca argues this is because nineteenth-century Latin American state formation occurred in a period when commerce, rather than war, was the key driver forging countries. Latin American leaders pursued the benefits of international trade at the cost of long-term liabilities built into the countries they forged, notably patrimonial administrations and dysfunctional regional combinations. Howlett, Zachary M. 2021. Meritocracy and Its Discontents: Anxiety and the National College Entrance Exam in China. Ithaca: Cornell University Press. Abstract Meritocracy and Its Discontents investigates the wider social, political, religious, and economic dimensions of the Gaokao, China's national college entrance exam, as well as the complications that arise from its existence. Each year, some nine million high school seniors in China take the Gaokao, which determines college admission and provides a direct but difficult route to an urban lifestyle for China's hundreds of millions of rural residents. But with college graduates struggling to find good jobs, some are questioning the exam's legitimacy—and, by extension, the fairness of Chinese society. Chronicling the experiences of underprivileged youth, Zachary M. Howlett's research illuminates how people remain captivated by the exam because they regard it as fateful—an event both consequential and undetermined. He finds that the exam enables people both to rebel against the social hierarchy and to achieve recognition within it. In Meritocracy and Its Discontents, Howlett contends that the Gaokao serves as a pivotal rite of passage in which people strive to personify cultural virtues such as diligence, composure, filial devotion, and divine favor. Szakonyi, David. 2020. Politics for Profit: Business, Elections, and Policymaking in Russia. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Abstract Businesspeople run for and win elected office around the world, with roughly one-third of members of parliament and numerous heads of states coming directly from the private sector. Yet we know little about why these politicians choose to leave the private sector and what they actually do while in government. In Politics for Profit, David Szakonyi brings to bear sweeping quantitative and qualitative evidence from Putin-era Russia to shed light on why businesspeople contest elections and what the consequences are for their firms and for society when they win. The book develops an original theory of businessperson candidacy as a type of corporate political activity undertaken in response to both economic competition and weak political parties. Szakonyi's evidence then shows that businesspeople help their firms reap huge gains in revenue and profitability while prioritizing investments in public infrastructure over human capital. The book finally evaluates policies for combatting political corruption. Ghosh, Arunabh. 2020. Making It Count: Statistics and Statecraft in the Early People's Republic of China. Princeton: Princeton University Press. Abstract In 1949, at the end of a long period of wars, one of the biggest challenges facing leaders of the new People’s Republic of China was how much they did not know. The government of one of the world’s largest nations was committed to fundamentally reengineering its society and economy via socialist planning while having almost no reliable statistical data about their own country. Making It Count is the history of efforts to resolve this “crisis in counting.” Drawing on a wealth of sources culled from China, India, and the United States, Arunabh Ghosh explores the choices made by political leaders, statisticians, academics, statistical workers, and even literary figures in attempts to know the nation through numbers. Ghosh shows that early reliance on Soviet-inspired methods of exhaustive enumeration became increasingly untenable in China by the mid-1950s. Unprecedented and unexpected exchanges with Indian statisticians followed, as the Chinese sought to learn about the then-exciting new technology of random sampling. These developments were overtaken by the tumult of the Great Leap Forward (1958–61), when probabilistic and exhaustive methods were rejected and statistics was refashioned into an ethnographic enterprise. By acknowledging Soviet and Indian influences, Ghosh not only revises existing models of Cold War science but also globalizes wider developments in the history of statistics and data. Anchored in debates about statistics and its relationship to state building, Making It Count offers fresh perspectives on China’s transition to socialism. Britto, Lina. 2020. Marijuana Boom: The Rise and Fall of Colombia's First Drug Paradise. Berkeley: University of California Press. Abstract Before Colombia became one of the world’s largest producers of cocaine in the 1980s, traffickers from the Caribbean coast partnered with American buyers in the 1970s to make the South American country the main supplier of marijuana for a booming US drug market, fueled by US hippie counterculture. How did one of the poorest and most isolated regions of Colombia become a central player in the making of an international drug trafficking circuit? Marijuana Boom is the untold story of this forgotten history. Combining deep archival research with unprecedented oral interviews, Lina Britto deciphers a puzzle: Why did the Colombian coffee republic, one of Latin America’s models of representative democracy and economic liberalism, transform into a drug paradise, and at what cost? Giraudy, Agustina, Eduardo Moncada, and Richard Snyder, ed. 2019. Inside Countries: Subnational Research in Comparative Politics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Abstract Although comparative politics is conventionally seen as the study of politics across countries, the field has a longstanding and increasingly prominent tradition in national contexts; focusing on subnational units, institutions, actors and processes. This book offers the first comprehensive assessment of the substantive, theoretical, and methodological contributions. With empirical chapters from across the contemporary Global South, including India, Mexico, and China, as well as Russia, the contributors show how subnational research provides useful insights about substantive themes in political science, from regimes and representation, to states and security, to social and economic development. In addition to methodological chapters with specific guidance about best practices for doing subnational research, this volume also proposes a set of strategies for subnational research, assesses their strengths and weaknesses, and offers illustrative empirical applications. Shahrokni, Nazanin. 2019. Women in Place: The Politics of Gender Segregation in Iran. Berkeley: University of California Press. Abstract While much has been written about the 1979 Islamic revolution and its impact on life in Iran, discussions about the everyday life of Iranian women have been glaringly missing. Women in Place offers a gripping inquiry into gender segregation policies and women’s rights in contemporary Iran. Author Nazanin Shahrokni takes us on a ride in gender segregated buses, inside a women-only park, and outside the closed doors of sports stadiums, where women are banned from attending men’s soccer matches. The Islamic character of the state, she demonstrates, has had to coexist, fuse and compete with technocratic imperatives, pragmatic considerations regarding the viability of the state, international influences, and global trends. Through a retelling of the past four decades of state policy regulating the gender boundary, Women in Place challenges notions of the Iranian state as overly unitary, ideological, and isolated from social forces, and pushes us to contemplate the changing place of women in a social order shaped by capitalism, state sanctioned Islamism, and debates about women’s rights. Shahrokni throws into sharp relief the ways in which the state strives to constantly regulate and contain women’s bodies and movements within the boundaries of the “proper,” but simultaneously invests in and claims credit for their expanded access to public spaces. Lori, Noora. 2019. Offshore Citizens: Permanent Temporary Status in the Gulf. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Abstract When it comes to extending citizenship to certain groups, why might ruling elites say neither 'yes' nor 'no', but 'wait'? The dominant theories of citizenship tend to recognize clear distinctions between citizens and aliens; either one has citizenship or one does not. This book shows that not all populations are fully included or expelled by a state; they can be suspended in limbo - residing in a territory for protracted periods without accruing citizenship rights. This in-depth case study of the United Arab Emirates uses new archival sources and extensive interviews to show how temporary residency can be transformed into a permanent legal status, through visa renewals and the postponement of naturalization cases. In the UAE, temporary residency was also codified into a formal citizenship status through the outsourcing of passports from the Union of Comoros, allowing elites to effectively reclassify minorities into foreign residents. Lurtz, Casey Marina. 2019. From the Grounds Up: Building an Export Economy in Southern Mexico. Palo Alto: Stanford University Press. Abstract In the late nineteenth century, Latin American exports boomed. From Chihuahua to Patagonia, producers sent industrial fibers, tropical fruits, and staple goods across oceans to satisfy the ever-increasing demand from foreign markets. In southern Mexico's Soconusco district, the coffee trade would transform rural life. A regional history of the Soconusco as well as a study in commodity capitalism, From the Grounds Up places indigenous and mestizo villagers, migrant workers, and local politicians at the center of our understanding of the export boom. An isolated, impoverished backwater for most of the nineteenth century, by 1920, the Soconusco had transformed into a small but vibrant node in the web of global commerce. Alongside plantation owners and foreign investors, a dense but little-explored web of small-time producers, shopowners, and laborers played key roles in the rapid expansion of export production. Their deep engagement with rural development challenges the standard top-down narrative of market integration led by economic elites allied with a strong state. Here, Casey Marina Lurtz argues that the export boom owed its success to a diverse body of players whose choices had profound impacts on Latin America's export-driven economy during the first era of globalization. Ferme, Mariane C. 2018. Out of War: Violence, Trauma, and the Political Imagination in Sierra Leone. Berkeley: University of California Press. Abstract Out of War draws on three decades of ethnographic engagements to examine the physical and psychological harms produced by the 1991-2002 Sierra Leone civil war. The book analyzes the relationship between violence, trauma, and the political imagination, focusing on “war times”—the different qualities of temporality shaped by conflict. Colonial and Precolonial histories and figures of sovereignty were reactivated during the civil war. Rumors and neologisms circulating during different phases of the decade-long conflict froze in time collective anxieties surrounding particular dangers, producing veritable “chronotopes” for organizing memories of the war. These include the juridical creation of new figures of victimhood in the Special Court for Sierra Leone and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission set up to bring about accountability for war crimes committed during the civil war. Beyond the expected traumas of war, the book focuses on the loss of intergenerational transmission of farming knowledge and farming techniques in rural areas, which produced lethal effects of its own. Throughout, the book examines strategies of survival and material dwelling amidst massive population displacements and humanitarian intervention. More The Harvard Academy for International and Area Studies Weatherhead Center for International Affairs 1727 Cambridge Street Cambridge, MA 02138 USA Office telephone: (617) 495-2137 Office fax: (617) 496-9592 Send Harvard Academy application inquiries to: applicationinquiries@wcfia.harvard.edu Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement