Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MBA Academics Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Student Life Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Campus The Neighborhood Explore NYC Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Review Process Events Class Visit Program Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Tuition & Financial Aid Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees More Contact the Admissions Team MBA Options and Deadlines Application Requirements Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Columbia Business School is excited to welcome visitors back to campus with the launch of our MBA Campus Visit program. Please note that the Admissions Office is currently not open to walk-in visitors. We continue to offer a wide variety of virtual events to help you get to know the MBA programs and the Columbia Business School community. We hope you will join us for an upcoming event! Contact Us Email: [email protected] Phone: 212-854-1961 Find directions → On-Campus and Online Events Campus Visits Campus Visits are a great opportunity to have your questions answered by Admissions, chat with current students, and see our new home in Manhattanville. Registration is required. Campus Visits are offered in-person on different dates and times each month. Information Sessions Find out more about Columbia Business School - our competitive strengths, unique resources, diverse and inclusive community, and the application process. Information Sessions are offered virtually on different dates and times each month. Student Chats Learn more about our community by informally speaking with current students. Student Chats are offered on different days throughout the week. In the virtual environment these are webinar-style events where prospective students can ask questions via Q&A box and the students answer as many as possible. Class Visits Gain firsthand exposure to Columbia Business School's rigorous and innovative curriculum by attending a class. Due to the ongoing pandemic, we are not yet offering in-person Class Visit opportunities. Recorded Events We encourage you to view the recordings from some of our previous events and webinars. Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application Application Deadlines January 2023 Entry Final September 28, 2022 August 2023 Entry Early September 28, 2022 Merit Fellowship January 11, 2023 Final April 5, 2023 Deferred Enrollment Program Final April 15, 2022 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats