Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside Academic Personnel Office Fostering Academic Success Search About Mission, Goals & Values People What We Do About UCR Academics General Information Why UCR? Diversity Diversity at UC Office of Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Statement of Contributions to Diversity Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action UCR Ranks and Facts Scholars of Distinction Strategic Initiatives Employment Opportunities Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (HERC) Campus Security Report Resources for Academic Employees Recruitment and Appointment Advancement and Promotion Compensation Benefits and Privileges Leaves of Absence Conflict of Commitment Research Ethics Resources for Faculty Administrators General Information Recruitment and Appointment Advancement and Promotion Benefits and Privileges Conflict of Commitment Compensation Leave of Absence Academic Senate Resources Bargaining Units and Contracts Information and Resources Employee Relations Events and Workshops Organization Charts Fellowships and Awards Events and Workshops New Faculty Orientation Faculty Development New Department Chair Orientation Department Chair Forum Other Resources and Training Opportunities Non-Senate Academics Grad Student Workers (ASE) Labor Relations Bargaining Contracts HR Employee and Labor Relations Lecturers (Unit 18) Librarians (Unit 17) Non-Senate Information Other Non-Senate Academics Postdocs Compensation Academic Salary and Salary Rates APM Section IV - Salary Administration Faculty Administrator Compensation Local Compensation Policy & Guidelines Negotiated Salary Trial Program (NSTP) Inter-Location One Time Pay and Multi Location Appointment Additional Resources Policies Recruitment and Appointment Advancement and Promotion Compensation Benefits and Privileges Leaves of Absence Conflict of Commitment Policies Under Review Research Ethics Non Senate Policies Employee Relations Policies Standards of Conduct Non-Senate Academics Academic Researchers (ARU) (RA) Grad Student Worker (ASE) Labor Relations Bargaining Contracts HR Employee and Labor Relations Home Non-Senate General Information Lecturers (Unit 18) Librarians (Unit 17) Postdocs Other Non-Senate Academics Employee Relations Toolbox Checklists & Forms Systems Our Partners Our Partners UC And Campus Organization Archive Quick Links UNIFIED IN SUPPORTING SOCIAL JUSTICE. ZERO TOLERANCE FOR RACISM AND HATE. Breadcrumb Welcome to the Academic Personnel Office The Academic Personnel Office (APO) leads and serves a diverse and internationally renowned academic community. APO is a dedicated team in support of all academic employees on campus. Whether you need guidance on University of California policy, help with navigating UCR policies and processes, or assistance with employment matters, we are here to help. Below are just some of the services we provide to the campus and the academic community. The Academic Personnel Office is open and our operations will be conducted using a hybrid work model (combination of in-person and remote). We encourage visitors to schedule an appointment when planning an in-person meeting. Per the COVID-19 campus policy, please wear a mask when visiting an indoor office regardless of your vaccination status. Resources and information on COVID-19 are available here. For 2021-22 academic year planning and guiding principles, go to the Campus Return web page. Advancement and Promotion APO manages the merit and promotion process for files for which the Chancellor and Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor have final authority. Additionally, APO is responsible for post-auditing and maintaining academic review files for which the Deans have final authority. Click here for more information Compensation APO manages compensation and payroll processes for academic employees at UCR, including implementation of local and systemwide salary programs (e.g., range adjustments), faculty administrator compensation, additional compensation, and more. Click here for more information Conflict of Commitment APO provides guidance on policies related to outside professional activities and oversees the review process for outside professional activities as defined under APM 025 and APM 671. Click here for more information Data and Reporting APO maintains academic data and generates reports for the campus, Office of the President, and systemwide partners. For more information, please send an email to academicpersonnel@ucr.edu. Employee Relations APO advises and consults with faculty and academic administrators on Academic Employee Relations matters, including advising departments regarding faculty discipline, collaborating with administrators to manage cases, and facilitating mediation and negotiations. Click here for more information Faculty Development Under the leadership of the Vice Provost for Academic Personnel, APO sponsors a series of workshops and other programs to assist UCR faculty in their professional development. Click here for more information Faculty Recognition APO promotes nominations for national and international awards. For more information, please send an email to academicpersonnel@ucr.edu. Fellowship Programs APO supports fellowship programs and manages the Chancellor's and Hellman programs for Postdocs and Junior Faculty. Click here for more information Labor Relations APO serves as the liaison with campus labor relations and the UC Office of the President for issues related to collective bargaining and contract administration for Unit 18 lecturers, ASEs, Postdocs, Librarians, and represented Academic Researchers. APO also serves as a liaison for other represented appointees. Click here for more information Leadership and Analysis APO provides consultation, advice, and policy interpretation to campus constituents on all aspects of academic personnel. Leaves of Absence APO manages the Vice Provost for Academic Personnel approval process for requests for leaves, family accommodations, Conflict of Commitment pre-approvals, and matters related to academic leaves. Click here for more information Partner Opportunities Assistance For assistance, please refer to the following resources. Riverside Chamber of Commerce (CoC) – The Provost and the Vice Provost for Academic Personnel (VPAP) have made a connection, Nick Adhock, with the Riverside Chamber of Commerce (CoC) who can help our faculty and search candidates with information about existing and emerging job opportunities in the area that might be of interest to their partners. For more information or assistance please send an email to Vice Provost Jeske at vpap@ucr.edu and he will coordinate with the contact at the CoC. Human Resources – oversees the Relocations Assistance/Partner Opportunity Program wherein they offer assistance in career search (across the Inland Empire) and provide general guidance on the Riverside area. For more information, please send an email to UCR’s Talent Acquisition Consultant, paul.pena@ucr.edu. HERC or Higher Education Recruitment Consortium – provides general information on Dual Career Search: https://main.hercjobs.org/jobs/dualsearch. Recruitment and Appointment APO manages the appointment for which the Chancellor, Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor, and Vice Provost for Academic Personnel have final authority. APO provides support to the campus in addressing academic diversity and equal employment opportunities associated with faculty recruitment. Click here for more information Systems Management APO provides campus support and manages academic systems such as eFilePlus, APRecruit, UC OATS, and ACAPER. Click here for more information UCPath APO provides support and assistance for UCPATH issues related to academic employees. Click here for more information on UCPath Campus Support Center Click here to access the UCPath Portal Click here for UCPath Portal Basics Work/Life Balance APO provides resources and policy guidance for academic family-friendly policies and work/life balance. Click here for more information News, Updates, and Events Click here for EVENTS and WORKSHOPS *NEW* VPAP on Tap – click here for conversations and reflections on the academic life at UCR Congratulations to the 2021-2022AY Hellman Fellows (click here for more information) Click here for Professional Development Fund Important Dates and General Information President's Postdoctoral Fellows and UCR's Chancellor's Postdoctoral Fellows (click here for more information) UCR News (click here) Distinguished Faculty UCR’s distinguished faculty boasts two Nobel Laureates and 13 members of the National Academies of Sciences and Medicine. Top 12 One of America's top 12 universities. (Forbes, "America's Best Value Colleges") World Class UCR is among the top 11% of ranked world universities. (Center for World University Rankings, 2019–20) 5,147 Academics we are proud to serve 350+ Merits and promotions processed annually 1 Goal: Foster academic success Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Academic Personnel Office 2148 Hinderaker Hall Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-2933 email: academicpersonnel@ucr.edu Do you have Suggestions/General Questions? Email us at academicpersonnel@ucr.edu. The information on this website is accurate and reliable at time of posting but may change without notice. Please contact our office for the most up-to-date information. UC Riverside complies with the Jeanne Clery Act, and provides safety information and publishes crime statistics for the most recent three-year period. View the full report here. Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel