Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu EMBA We’re more than just business at Columbia Business School EMBA Academics Classes Academic Calendar Core Curriculum Electives International Seminar Cross-Registration for Non-EMBA Students Cluster System Degree Requirements Faculty Residence Period Options & Locations EMBA-NY Calendar Sample Schedules EMBA Global Student Life Speakers & Conferences Student Organizations Support Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Application Deadlines Application Requirements Sponsorship Information for Sponsors List of Sponsors Review Process Events Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply Connect with EMBA Connect with Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid University Employees More Jump to main content Overview Our world-class Executive MBA education helps leaders grow while staying connected to a dynamic business environment. Study with renowned professors and prominent practitioners, build skills to complement your existing experience, and learn different perspectives from diverse classmates. Our core curriculum embraces both big-picture business and entrepreneurial dreams while our electives offer deep insights into a variety of industries and functional areas, allowing you to create the academic experience that fits your goals. The Columbia Advantage Faculty and Academics Executive MBA students earn the same degree as full-time students, benefiting from the same high-level coursework with many of the same professors. Choose from several program options to balance your career, studies, and life schedule. All courses are taught by the School’s 150 full-time faculty, thought leaders whose research is transforming the way business is conducted across the world, and by more than 100+ adjunct faculty, practitioners who come directly from the world of business to share their invaluable first-hand experience. Where Theory Meets Practice We prepare students for career success by connecting their real-world experience from the trading floors, board rooms, and retail stores with our classroom education. What’s learned on Friday can be applied on Monday, and Monday’s results can inform Friday’s discussion. This is how leading-edge theory meets real-world practice. Moreover, we understand how and when the business world is shifting, and we regularly introduce new programs that prepare our students for today’s rapidly changing business landscape. Access Located at the very center of business, we offer unparalleled access to leaders across industries, drawing top execs from Fortune 300 companies to tech startups. With our guest lecturers, Executives in Residence program, and a multitude of speakers and conferences, we bring critical insights to campus on a daily basis. In fact, more business leaders visit our campus than any other top business school. Plus, with a global alumni network of 48,000+, you’re never far from a Columbia Business School connection. Community Take one look around our campus and you will see the world reflected in our culture and the content of our work. Students come to Columbia Business School from 90 countries and bring with them every kind of business perspective. You’ll be studying closely with a diverse group of thinkers representing a wide array of industries and interests. Whether you arrive from across the globe or on a crosstown bus, your student experience will be defined by much more than coursework. We work hard to ensure that EMBA students enjoy a work-life balance that is supported by the entire Columbia community. Career Resources Our Career Management Center (CMC) offers a dedicated EMBA support team. We provide a range of resources devoted to experienced students looking to grow at their current company or plan their next move. By taking advantage of one-on-one coaching sessions with advisors to formulate individual job strategies, and using career-focused workshops that provide tactical advice, you'll be well-prepared to get the most out of your career. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Every business and community is stronger when we include diverse voices. That's why Columbia Business School is committed to promoting diversity in all its forms by making sure those from all racial, ethnic, socioeconomic, and professional backgrounds feel welcomed and represented in our community. The School's Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Initiative, led by the Vice Dean of DEI, monitors and makes recommendations pertaining to the Initiative's three pillars of Community Diversity, Curriculum and Classroom Inclusion, and Culture and Climate. Meanwhile, a Standing Committee – comprising students, faculty, and staff – creates relevant campus and community programming. New Manhattanville Campus After proudly calling Uris Hall home for more than half a century, Columbia Business School will expand its facilities on 17 acres five blocks north of the University’s Morningside Heights Campus. The Manhattanville Campus will be a home for groundbreaking research and world-class education in neuroscience, business, international affairs, and the arts. The campus will open in early 2022. By the numbers Class size 152 Thousand Alumni 48 Full-time faculty 152 Events Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels