Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MBA Academics Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Student Life Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Campus The Neighborhood Explore NYC Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Review Process Events Class Visit Program Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Tuition & Financial Aid Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees More MBA Tuition & Financial Aid MBA Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees Attending Columbia Business School is a major investment. We believe it's an investment in your future with an unbeatable cost-benefit ratio, but there's no denying it's an investment that needs to be planned for carefully. Our Financial Aid Office is here to help you finance the MBA program, as well as to recognize students who demonstrate exceptional academic achievement and professional potential. The budget provided on the bottom is based on a moderate student lifestyle and represents the maximum amount of financial aid possible for the current academic year. Tuition is set by the University's Board of Trustees and is ratified in June of each year. Student Budget 2021-2022 Item Cost Tuition $77,376 Mandatory Fees $3,797 Health Services & Insurance $5,138 Books & Supplies $398 Room & Board $24,822 Personal Expenses $6,246 Computer Purchase $1,000 Total First Year Budget $118,777 Students may incur additional costs, such as study tours or club events. The January-Entry student living budget differs slightly since the first year is only 8 months. Given the rigor of the full-time MBA program, employment during the academic terms is discouraged, particularly in the first year. Teaching and research assistantships are offered directly through faculty members, although these appointments are generally awarded to doctoral students. More information about on-campus work opportunities can be found here. Learn more about costs on the Financial Aid website → Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application Application Deadlines January 2023 Entry Final September 28, 2022 August 2023 Entry Early September 28, 2022 Merit Fellowship January 11, 2023 Final April 5, 2023 Deferred Enrollment Program Final April 15, 2022 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats