Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu Research Opportunities Predoctoral Fellowships Alumni and Placements Current Predoctoral Fellows Postdoctoral Fellowships Summer Research Internship Summer Intern Placements Past Summer Research Projects 2019 Projects 2018 Projects 2017 Projects 2016 Projects 2015 Projects 2014 Projects CUBS Program CDBE Award More CUBS Program Columbia Undergraduate Business Scholarship (CUBS) Program Now Accepting Applications for 2022 - 2023 (Application Deadline May 16, 2022) The mission of the Columbia Undergraduate Business Scholarship (CUBS) Program is to increase participation of students from underrepresented groups in business research. The program is designed to prepare current Columbia and Barnard undergraduates for a career in business research. CUBS are paired with faculty for whom they work as paid research assistants. This apprenticeship model exposes CUBS to the research challenges tackled in business school settings, teaches them basic research and data-analytics skills, and provides insight into careers in academia. Who should apply? This is a multi-disciplinary program, and candidates from all disciplines — including business, statistics, mathematics, engineering, computer science, the physical sciences, and the social and behavioral sciences — are encouraged to apply. The ideal candidate is curious, organized, eager to learn, interested in learning more about a career in academia, and capable of independent work. We encourage students from diverse and underrepresented communities to apply. With whom do fellows work? CUBS are paired with one of our esteemed faculty in Accounting; Decision, Risk, & Operations; Economics; Finance; Management; or Marketing. CUBS are paid to work 10 hours per week for their faculty sponsor. What do fellows learn? CUBS will learn basic research methodology and develop stronger data analytics skills. The work may include literature reviews, data collection and cleaning, basic data analysis, and the use of statistical software and computer programming languages. How long is the program? The program runs through the academic year, from September through May. How do I apply? We are now accepting applications for the 2022 - 2023 academic year. To apply, students must submit a resume and a brief statement of interest or cover letter via the following link. Application Deadline: May 16 Information Sessions Wednesday, April 20 at 12pm. Register Here Friday, April 22at 12pm. Register Here If you are interested in attending an information session about the program, please fill out the following form. ---> If you have any questions about the program or application, please email [email protected]. Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats