Thank you for using Academic Commons. Please help us improve our website by taking a brief survey. Skip to main content Columbia University Libraries Academic Commons search for Search About Explore Log In Upload Your Research Academic Commons Academic Commons provides global access to research and scholarship produced at Columbia University and its affiliate institutions. Learn more → Explore the Repository Discover what researchers and scholars are sharing in Academic Commons. Browse highlighted contributions from across Columbia and its affiliate institutions. 44 all Upload Your Research Are you a member of the Columbia community? Want your research to be more discoverable and accessible? Upload it to Academic Commons today. Stats at a glance 34,277 total works 14,369 articles 5,891 reports 7,395 doctoral theses 144 conference materials 420 datasets “Academic Commons is an important way that Columbia makes our scholarship accessible and discoverable. Open access has been incredibly effective in helping my writing reach new and important audiences.” Sharon Marcus Orlando Harriman Professor of English, Columbia University “Academic Commons has enabled us to distribute citable versions of all our work, including software products. It tracks how much the software is being accessed, which helps us show the impact of our work.” Simon J. Mason Senior Research Scientist, International Research Institute for Climate and Society “The publication process takes time. I use Academic Commons to share my findings with the larger community so the knowledge and insights I produce can be used sooner.” Oren Pizmony-Levy Associate Professor of International and Comparative Education, Teachers College About | FAQ | Policies | Developers| Credits ac@columbia.edu Academic Commons provides global access to research and scholarship produced at Columbia University, Barnard College, Teachers College, Union Theological Seminary and Jewish Theological Seminary. Academic Commons is managed by the Columbia University Libraries.