Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MBA Academics Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Student Life Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Campus The Neighborhood Explore NYC Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Review Process Events Class Visit Program Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Tuition & Financial Aid Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees More Military and Veterans MBA Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees Listed as a military-friendly school by GMAC, Columbia Business School is honored to have its military and veteran student population as part of our community. We seek to offer opportunities to our students to support them throughout their academic careers, and below is a brief overview of programs designed to help veterans finance their education. Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2008 Accepted students who have at least 90 days of active duty after September 10, 2001 may be eligible for this program. Interested parties may contact their local VA office for up to 36 months of education benefits. For the 2021-22 academic year, the maximum award is $26,042.81. Students also may receive a monthly housing allowance and a stipend for books and supplies should they qualify. The Yellow Ribbon GI Education Enhancement Program Yellow Ribbon is a supplemental benefit for Post-9/11 GI Bill recipients. For the 2021-22 academic year, we offer eligible students $15,000, which is matched by the VA for a total of $30,000. We are able to offer this scholarship to all eligible veterans who apply and meet the requirements. Vocational Rehabilitation Vocational Rehabilitation is a program designed to assist veterans who have a disability rating of at least 10% or a memorandum rating of 20%. The program includes full payment of tuition and fees (except health insurance), plus a monthly stipend. NYS Veterans Tuition Awards (VTA) Veterans Tuition Awards are offered to New York State residents who have served in the US Armed Forces and are currently veterans. Award amounts for the 2021-22 academic year are $3,535 per term for full-time students. Advanced Civil Schooling Scholarship Fund The Advanced Civil Schooling Scholarship Fund provides support to participants in the Army’s Advanced Civil Schooling Program. Amounts vary depending on the amount of sponsorship by the Army. If selected, Columbia can assist by covering the gap between the cost of tuition and the sponsorship. Applicants are notified of eligibility after admission. Paul Ferri Scholarship The Ferri Scholarship provides financial assistance to Columbia Business School students to supplement their Yellow Ribbon funding. Ferri Scholars are chosen from among Yellow Ribbon eligible students. Learn more about military and veteran financing on the Financial Aid website → Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application Application Deadlines January 2023 Entry Final September 28, 2022 August 2023 Entry Early September 28, 2022 Merit Fellowship January 11, 2023 Final April 5, 2023 Deferred Enrollment Program Final April 15, 2022 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats