Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu EMBA Academics Classes Academic Calendar Core Curriculum Electives International Seminar Cross-Registration for Non-EMBA Students Cluster System Degree Requirements Faculty Residence Period Options & Locations EMBA-NY Calendar Sample Schedules EMBA Global Student Life Speakers & Conferences Student Organizations Support Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Application Deadlines Application Requirements Sponsorship Information for Sponsors List of Sponsors Review Process Events Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply Connect with EMBA Connect with Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid University Employees More The Cluster System: Building Community from Day One EMBA Classes Cluster System Degree Requirements Faculty Residence Period Wondering what it’s like to earn an MBA while still working full time? It’s possible at Columbia Business School. Our flexible program options and the collaborative and nurturing community help students meet their professional goals while finding balance in their personal lives. Hear from four recent alumni about their Executive MBA experience. What makes Columbia Business School one of the best in the world? Among many factors, we believe that community is key. You’ll find that it starts day one, with the cluster system. As you begin the EMBA Program, you will be assigned to a cluster of 30 to 70 students. Your cluster will take all of its first-year core classes together. The cluster is a diverse grouping, reflective of the whole class. It is made up of people from all over the world, with a wealth of skills, ideas, leadership styles, and backgrounds. An enriched learning experience. Clustermates tend to become close, allowing people to feel comfortable and at ease in challenging ideas—and each other—all while working together. Learning Teams Enhance Your Academic Experience Just as the cluster creates community, your learning team will make a lasting difference in your academic experience. Here’s the process: Your cluster will be divided into learning teams of about five students. Your team is made up of individuals from diverse professional and personal backgrounds. For most core courses, you will complete assignments together as a team, leveraging each other's strengths to tackle the challenging course work. Unsurpassed learning. You’ll find that a learning team offers invaluable insights into other areas of expertise and styles of learning. You’ll work closely with the same people across a range of subjects. The result? A more holistic, real-world, lasting education. EMBA Sidebar Links Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application EMBA Application Deadlines EMBA Application Deadlines (applications go live in August) EMBA-NY Saturday: May 2023 Entry Early January 11, 2023 Final February 15, 2023 EMBA-NY Fri/Sat: August 2023 Entry Early March 22, 2023 Final May 24, 2023 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats