Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MBA Academics Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Student Life Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Campus The Neighborhood Explore NYC Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Review Process Events Class Visit Program Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Tuition & Financial Aid Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees More Leadership Groups MBA Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events International Students Diversity The Culture of NYC Student Profiles Student government co-president Sid Viswanath ’17 goves advice to incoming students: "Say yes" to leadership challenges. At Columbia, we're proud of the active role our students take in influencing policy and practices at the School. We have several student leadership groups that work closely with one another and the administration to ensure that Columbia is constantly evolving to be an even better environment for our students. Bernstein Leadership Board The Student Leadership and Ethics Board is composed of first- and second-year MBA and EMBA students who develop programs focused on ethical decision making and principled leadership. Students are selected based on an interest in leadership and ethics, as well as academic and work experience. The board interacts with faculty, staff, alumni and students to develop, support, organize, and market extracurricular events. Events include high-profile speakers and experiential learning activities such as films, role-playing activities, events featuring improvisational actors, and other creative sessions as determined by the board. Visit website → Career Fellows The Career Fellows Program is a Career Management Center (CMC) leadership initiative that employs and trains second-year students to provide career management skills, advice, and support to classmates during the job-search process. Selectively chosen through an application process to represent a wide array of industries, functions, and geographies, Career Fellows offer industry exploration and education, networking best practices, résumé and cover letter reviews, pitch preparations, and mock interviews. Career Fellows further develop their own communication, leadership, and lifelong career management skills through working closely with the CMC. Dean's Advisory Board The Dean’s Advisory Board, composed of students, is devoted to discussing the student body’s feedback and vision regarding new and current programming with the dean. This group has a tangible impact on the community, and has helped launch bold initiatives like the Columbia Startup Lab. Student Government Columbia Business School's student council enriches and broadens the student experience. Interacting with students, the administration, faculty, and the external community, Student Government promotes an environment of energetic, engaged students who are proud to be lifetime members of the Columbia Business School community. Visit website → Hermes Society The Hermes Society is composed of selected students who voluntarily serve as representatives of the Admissions Office and the Columbia Business School student body. Members participate in and represent the student perspective at information sessions on campus, welcome admitted students to the community, organize and facilitate Columbia Connect (open house) events, and meet with applicants to answer their questions. Applications are accepted each semester from students who have completed at least one term at the School. Honor Board Each cluster elects Honor Board representatives to serve on a committee that works closely with the administration and faculty to resolve any breaches of the honor code. Honor Board members often help to prepare their clusters for exams, and work to ensure ethical behavior is demonstrated by their peers. Peer Advisor Program Peer advisors are students who have been selected through an application process to help guide new students through the first-year transition to Columbia. Peer advisors are actively involved in Orientation and, as part of the Program on Social Intelligence, they coach and advise first-year learning teams. Peer advisors go through extensive leadership training and work closely with OSA, faculty members, and departments throughout the School as liaisons to the first-year class. Silfen Leadership Series The David and Lyn Silfen Leadership Series is an unparalleled learning opportunity for the entire Columbia Business School community, attracting renowned business leaders from around the world to provide a forum for students to exchange thoughts and ideas with the most important people in business today. Visit website → Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application Application Deadlines January 2023 Entry Final September 28, 2022 August 2023 Entry Early September 28, 2022 Merit Fellowship January 11, 2023 Final April 5, 2023 Deferred Enrollment Program Final April 15, 2022 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats