Skip to main content College of Design Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning | College of Design Menu Close Home Explore the Program Faculty and Staff MLA Reaccreditation Self-Evaluation Report Resources Academics Admissions Accreditation MLA Post Professional Degree (Track I) First Professional LAAB Degree, Advanced Standing (Track II) First Professional LAAB Degree (Track III) Graduate Certificate in City Design Disaster Resilient Policy, Engineering and Design Certificate Studios and Seminars Inter-Institutional Study Undergraduate Minor in Landscape Architecture Research and Engagement Design + Build Natural Learning Initiative Coastal Dynamics Design Lab Students MLA Program Guide Student Work Student Organizations Students and Alumni Paying For Your MLA Join our Community Listserv News and Events Lectures and Events Annual Conferences and Events Give to LAEP Home Home Explore the Program Faculty and Staff MLA Reaccreditation Self-Evaluation Report Resources Academics Academics Admissions Accreditation MLA Post Professional Degree (Track I) First Professional LAAB Degree, Advanced Standing (Track II) First Professional LAAB Degree (Track III) Graduate Certificate in City Design Disaster Resilient Policy, Engineering and Design Certificate Studios and Seminars Inter-Institutional Study Undergraduate Minor in Landscape Architecture Research and Engagement Research and Engagement Design + Build Natural Learning Initiative Coastal Dynamics Design Lab Students Students MLA Program Guide Student Work Student Organizations Students and Alumni Paying For Your MLA Join our Community Listserv News and Events News and Events Lectures and Events Annual Conferences and Events Give to LAEP Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning Landscape architects combine critical design thinking, planning and design, and knowledge of physical and social sciences, to engage situations of landscape involving health, safety, and wellbeing The Master of Landscape Architecture (MLA) is a STEM-designated degree and fully accredited program that prepares graduate students for the rigors of professional practice, research, leadership, and community engagement. Students combine critical design thinking with creativity, and passion to address diverse landscape architecture and environmental planning projects. Follow Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning on Instagram! ncstatelaep 175 ncstatelaep View May 26 Open Inviting all Faculty, Staff, LAEP Students and Landscape Architecture professionals! Please join us for a reception on June 9th as we honor Meg Calkins for her time as the LAEP Department Head. We hope to see you all there! #ncstatedesign ... ncstatelaep View May 11 Open Congrats to Deepti Adlakha for her fantastic work with the Global Healthy and Sustainable City Indicators Collaboration that is being published as a Lancet Global Health Series on Urban Design, Transport, and Health! Learn about her work and many other contributors in the link below! . . #ncstatecollegeofdesign #landscapearchitecture #thinkanddo https://researcheracademy.elsevier.com/publishing-premium-journals/lancet/urban-design-transport-health-0 ... ncstatelaep View May 7 Open Congrats to our class of '22 MLA students! We know you will all continue to think and do great things! . . . #ncstate #landscapearchitecture #environmentalplanning #landscapedesigners #graduation #thinkanddo #ncstatedesign ... ncstatelaep View Apr 27 Open Another year is coming to a close! Congrats to the First Year students their successful pin-up for the 502 Studio and Landform & Grading Class! Good Luck to those who are still working! #ncstatelaep #landscapearchitecture 📸: @ben_monette @agfitz ... ncstatelaep View Apr 25 Open We had a fun evening in Christine Hilt’s lovely garden at the Women in Landscape Architecture Garden Party Saturday evening. The Vodoo Lilies bloomed just for us 😉 ... ncstatelaep View Apr 23 Open What a wonderful night for the LAEP awards ceremony and end of year celebration! Congrats to all our graduates, we are so excited for your next chapter! Many thanks to our amazing faculty and department head for all your hard work and support! #ncstatelaep #landscapearchitecture #happyearthday ... ncstatelaep View Apr 21 Open Some LAEP students have been working on interdisciplinary teams in the @ulitriangle UrbanPlan Seminar this semester. On Monday their mock-development teams presented to a mock city council to recieve feedback on their plans. Thanks to Chuck Flink for teaching this pilot course, we look forward to it being offered in the future! . . #Repost - @ulitriangle by @get_regrammer A Huge thank you goes out to @ncstatedesign and Dr. Charles Flink. The UrbanPlan Seminar conducted its final class last night. Three student teams made presentations to a “mock city council.” The Council members included George Stanziale (the Mayor), Julie Paul, Maria Wall and David Brown. Each student team made outstanding presentations. Overall, the Council was very pleased with the quality and depth of information in each presentation. Dr. Charles Flink, NCSU College of Design, said he wants to say thank you to all the ULI Volunteers who helped out throughout the semester. The students have been thrilled with the class and the chance to interact with area real estate professionals. #ncstatecollegeofdesign #ulitriangle #uli #urbanlandinstitute #uliurbanplan #urbanplan #ncrealestate #ncfutureleaders #getinvolved ... ncstatelaep View Apr 12 Open Spring WxLA event! Local landscape architect Christine Hilt will open her home and garden to host us for this special evening on Aril 23 from 5-8 PM. Celebrate, relax, and make connections with students, faculty, professionals, and alumni. All are welcome to attend! Please RSVP by April 18th (temporary link in bio)! ... ncstatelaep View Apr 10 Open Some of our LAEP students have been having fun at the @lafoundation Green New Deal summit in DC this weekend! @kofiboone ... ncstatelaep View Apr 4 Open Congrats to our department head, Meg Calkins, for being inducted into the Council of Educators in Landscape Architecture (CELA) Academy of Fellows! . . . #Repost - @thecelaofficial by @get_regrammer The CELA is excited to recognize our newest CELA Academy of Fellows inductees: Meg Calkins, FCELA Katya Crawford, FCELA Allan W. Shearer, FCELA and Ashley Steffens, FCELA Membership in the Academy of Fellows represents the highest level of achievement within the CELA membership. We are pleased to honor their accomplishments in teaching, scholarship, creative activity, and service. Thank you all for your exceptional contributions! Find out more about each of the inductees: https://thecela.org/2022-cela-class-of-fellows/ ... ncstatelaep View Apr 4 Open Join us this Wednesday, April 6 at 6:00pm, for NCSU Professor Emeritus Art Rice's lecture entitled "Design as an Act of Seeing and Creating". We also invite you to join us for a reception in Allred Gallery following the lecture! This is our final lecture of the school year, please join us in Burns Auditorium or through Zoom, the link to register for Zoom can be found on the LAEP website. #landscapearchitecture #ncstatelaep ... ncstatelaep View Mar 28 Open Be sure to catch @transit_dude and @rebeccadrawsthings at the LABash 2022 Conference this coming weekend! They are both participating in a panel discussing Climate-Adaptive Design as a Co Op Extension Endeavor on Saturday at 10am! Check out @labashconference for more info! ... Load More Follow on Instagram Featured news See More News NLI Director Joins 80 Researchers Worldwide to Create Parameters for Healthy and Sustainable Cities Director of the Natural Learning Initiative Dr. Deepti Adlakha’s latest research work was published as part of The Lancet Global Health Series on Urban Design, Transport and Health. Urban design and city planning influence how we can travel, the quality of the air we breathe, our access to essential facilities and services, our participation in social events, and our enjoyment of green spaces. All this is vital to our physical and mental health. In 2016, a series of papers in The Lancet highlighted the myriad links between cities and health and proposed a set of city planning indicators. In this follow-up series published in The Lancet Global Health, authors show how the indicators can benchmark and monitor progress to guide urban policy to achieve population health and sustainability targets. They provide tools that other cities can use to replicate the indicators and explore “where to next” to create healthy and sustainable cities, particularly in light of the COVID-19 pandemic and climate change. Congratulations, Class of 2022! We asked our spring graduates for some thoughts on their time in the College of Design. Below, hear from them in their own words. A New Way To Measure: Bringing Drone Technology to Landscape Architecture With the help of NC State’s Institute for Transportation, Research and Education (ITRE), Emily McCoy, associate professor of practice in landscape architecture and environmental planning, has been flying drones across campus for the past five years. But she’s capturing more than the beauty of the landscape. McCoy and the students in her landscape performance class have been using tools such as drones with thermal cameras to evaluate how different landscapes across campus perform from a sustainability standpoint. As supporters of the New Landscape Declaration, we emphasize evidence-based inquiry and design thinking that positions students and graduates to engage with and propel the landscape architecture profession into the future as it evolves in response to environmental and societal imperatives. New Landscape Declaration Department Head of Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning Meg Calkins, FASLA Email Meg Our mission is to teach, learn, research, and apply state-of-the-art practices that create innovative and resilient landscapes focused on human and ecosystem health, safety, well-being, social equity, and quality of life. We prepare the next generation of landscape architects to engage challenges and opportunities focused on: Landscape dynamics and resilient design; Community planning and design; Design for children and families; Research and evidence-based design strategies; Emerging digital design tools for representation, simulation, and evaluation. Graduate Landscape Architecture The Master of Landscape Architecture (MLA) is a STEM-designated degree and LAAB accredited program that prepares graduate students for the rigors of professional practice, research, leadership, and community engagement. Our students, faculty, and local design community seek to understand the impact of human actions on the land and to respond with community-based design strategies. We are dedicated to teaching, researching, and practicing design processes that acknowledge the interdependence of built landscapes and ecological, social, and economic systems. The department offers three main academic curriculum tracks: First Professional Masters of Landscape Architecture (Track III) First Professional Masters of Landscape Architecture, Advanced Standing (Track II) Post-Professional Degree (Track I) The first half of the academic program prepares students for the current practice and discipline of landscape architecture. It equips them with the core knowledge base, tools, processes, and skills in design, site works, history and theory, planning, research and the culture of professional practice. The second half of the academic program propels students into the profession and discipline of the future that they will help evolve and lead. It positions students to pursue substantive inquiry into their own, those of the faculty, and those of the larger extended community. Students master bodies of knowledge, pursue evidence-based research, and hone verbal, written, and graphic communication skills. Throughout their program of study, students combine critical design thinking talents with their intelligence, creativity, and passions to frame, engage and challenge the questions, problems, and situations of landscape that involve health, safety, wellbeing, and quality of life. The department also offers the following certificates and programs: Graduate Minors and Certificate Programs Graduate minors are available to all students and consist of nine credit hours of courses, in another graduate degree granting discipline, listed as 400-level or above. A member of that degree’s faculty may serve as a third member of the student’s final project committee. Certificates offered in GIS, Public Policy and Horticultural Science may be of particular interest. Please visit the Graduate Minors and Certificate Page for more information. Graduate Certificate in City Design The Graduate Certificate in City Design focuses on design at the scale of the city, and within neighborhoods and urban districts. Studios and seminars focus on the challenges, and opportunities facing communities and cities in the 21st century, with a particular emphasis upon principles of sustainability and urban ecology. Learn more Disaster Resilient Policy, Engineering and Design Certificate The imperative motivating the Graduate Certificate in Disaster Resilient Policy, Engineering and Design is to educate the next generation of practitioners and scholars to apply knowledge gained in the classroom and in the field to reduce the rise in disaster losses and assist communities to adapt to a changing climate. Learn more Inter-Institutional Study Students at NC State University may also register for courses at local universities (UNC–Chapel Hill, UNC-Greensboro, and Duke University) paying NC State University credit fees. Our students have an exceptional range of courses and programs open to them through these inter-institutional study opportunities. Students may also take courses at the other Raleigh colleges that are members of the Cooperating Raleigh Colleges organization. Please visit the Inter-Institutional Study Page for more information. View the 2020-2021 MLA Program Handbook RA/TA + Scholarship Opportunities Undergraduate Minor in Landscape Architecture While we no longer offer a Bachelor of Landscape Architecture, it is possible for NC State University undergraduate students to take certain landscape architecture courses as electives. Please visit the Undergraduate Minor in Landscape Architecture Page or contact the Head of the Department of Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning, Meg Calkins, FASLA, for more information. See Student Work See more examples of student work here: Department of Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning Student Work Follow the College of Design on Instagram: ncstatedesign 1,903 6,420 The official Instagram account of the NC State College of Design. Meet our community: #ncstatecreatives ncstatedesign View May 31 Open Director of the Natural Learning Initiative, Dr. Deepti Adlakha’s latest research work was recently published as part of The Lancet Global Health Series on Urban Design, Transport and Health.   “Our team developed a scalable framework with standardized methods and open-source tools that can be used by other cities to benchmark and monitor progress towards being healthy and sustainable,” says Dr. Adlakha. “This framework offers a roadmap for city leaders to act quickly, plan for future urban growth, and provide equitable infrastructure, services, and amenities.”   Read the full story in our bio. ... 12 0 ncstatedesign View May 24 Open 🚗 🚌 🚛 We're driving toward better design. Well, kind of. Graphic design students at the College of Design partnered with @redhatinc to create solutions for a world dominated by driverless vehicles. Throughout the studio, students had to imagine a future in which the public no longer had access to personal vehicles. Then, they had to ideate how autonomous vehicles can fit into various human factors such as family needs, career specializations and security concerns. Read about the project, see the work, and learn more about the power of sponsored studios at NC State: Link in bio. ... 64 2 ncstatedesign View May 20 Open Hard to believe it's only been two weeks since you started the next chapter in your journey. On the bright side, we can still take a trip down memory lane together ❤️ Check out the link in our bio for some of our favorite moments from commencement 📸🎓. ... 191 1 ncstatedesign View May 19 Open iykyk ... 86 1 ncstatedesign View May 17 Open It might be summer, but mentally we are still here. You can be too - the @ncsuart2wear photo galleries are now live. Link in bio to view and download. 💃📸 ... 102 1 ncstatedesign View May 13 Open 🎶🦋 and the butterflies and bees 🐝🎵 ... 87 0 Load More Follow on Instagram College of Design Home NC State University College of Design 50 Pullen Rd Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.8302 CAMPUS MAP Contact Us Accessibility Accredition Diversity Academics Update My Information Newsletter Signup Giving Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.