Toggle navigation About F-LEARN T-LEARN Contact Us About F-LEARN Program LEARN Alumni Success Stories T-LEARN Program L.E.A.R.N. Consortium L.E.A.R.N. Consortium Resources L.E.A.R.N. Team Connect with L.E.A.R.N. on Social Media UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH TREVOR COLBOURN HALL, Room 205 ORLANDO, FL 32816-1906 F-LEARN Program F-L.E.A.R.N. is for students entering UCF from high school. F-L.E.A.R.N. students may have dual-enrollment courses and also just graduated from high school. F-L.E.A.R.N. is a Learning Community, established at UCF in 2011, that focuses on students’ academic success in selected majors (Engineering, Computer Science, Biology, Chemistry, Medicine, Math, Physics, Forensic Science, Statistics, Optics and Photonics, Psychology, Anthropology, Political Science or Sociology). Working with on-campus partners, L.E.A.R.N. provides a select group of first-year students an inquiry-based/hands-on learning experience through an early research opportunity that is generally reserved for upper-level students. Students in this program will: Experience a small learning community at a large research university. We strive to provide opportunities for our L.E.A.R.N. students to build one-on-one relationships with faculty, staff, and other students on campus. Receive personalized academic advising through a dedicated F-L.E.A.R.N. academic advisor, priority registration, and a scholarship. Enroll in Introduction to Research courses to produce a research proposal and poster presentation. Introduction to Research I (one credit) is taken in the fall semester and Introduction to Research II (one credit) is taken in the spring semester. Engage in a 12-week research apprenticeship with a graduate student-faculty mentor team. Participate in academic, social, and community service activities through UCF-sponsored events to build and strengthen their network of peers. Acquire skills that will make them qualified and competitive to apply to upper-level undergraduate research programs and internships. Applications for this program open in October. This program is run by the UCF Office of Undergraduate Research. Apply Now! Navigation About F-LEARN T-LEARN Contact Us The University of Central Florida is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award degrees at the associate, baccalaureate, master’s, specialist, and doctoral levels. Questions about the accreditation of UCF may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC’s website (www.sacscoc.org). Division of Student Learning and Academic Success I UCF