Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MSM Gain the quantitative technical skills and the market understanding to become an “analytical marketeer” who can derive data-driven creative insights MSM Academics Academic Calendar Student Life Career Support Admissions Application Requirements Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Tuition & Financial Aid University Employees Current Students More Jump to main content Overview The Master of Science in Marketing Science program offers a STEM-eligible curriculum that focuses on marketing analytics. The program trains marketing researchers to work in a variety of organizations where marketing analytics adds value, including media and advertising, consumer products, omnichannel retailers and financial services. The growing demand for data analytics and increasingly complex consumer understanding required in marketing decisions is spurring a growing demand for “analytical marketeers”, who can combine quantitative skills, market understanding and creative insights. The Master of Science in Marketing Science prepares students for careers in this growing field across a broad array of industries including multi-channel retailing, consumer products and services, media and entertainment, and consulting The Master of Science in Marketing Science requires two semesters of full-time study (fall and spring) at Columbia Business School. Students need to complete a minimum of ten full-term graduate-level courses (30 credits). They can take an additional two full-term courses at no extra charge. The Columbia Advantage Academics Students take a carefully constructed curriculum of PhD and MBA courses offered at Columbia Business School. The program has a slight overlap with our PhD program, but is intended for students who prefer a shorter and more industry-oriented experience than the School’s Doctoral Program. Student life Columbia Business School’s supportive community helps our busy students balance their life, work, and studies while still having opportunities to enjoy one another’s company and the excitement of New York City. Take a moment to meet our current students and alumni who talk about their Columbia Business School experiences. We’re sure you’ll see yourself in their personal glimpses and positive reflections on their time here, especially with their professors and fellow students. Career resources The Career Management Center (CMC) at Columbia Business School works with students to develop lifelong career management skills and empowers them to leverage the Columbia Business School network throughout their careers. The small size of the program allows the CMC to target search resources, tailoring these to the experience and needs of MS in Marketing Science students in a variety of industries. By the numbers Average GRE Quant Score 168 % Acceptance Rate 8 % Employed within Six Months 100 Contact us Our Admissions Office is located in 203 Uris Hall on Columbia University’s Morningside Heights Campus. Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, drop-in visits are not currently available. Prospective students can speak with an admissions counselor from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday via the contact options below. Beginning in January 2022, all MS courses will be held at our new campus in Manhattanville and our offices will relocate to Kravis Hall. Email: [email protected] Phone:+1-212-854-2836 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels