Skip to main content Rutgers Top Menu Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey RBHSWebsitesPeopleEvents CalendarBuildings Biomedical and Health Sciences Toggle navigation Main navigation About About Office of the Chancellor Diversity and Inclusion Office Locations and Directions Contact Us Academics Academics Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Education Academic Calendars Admissions Research Office of Research Schools, Centers, and Institutes Clinical and Translational Research Rutgers Research Gateways Additional Resources Research News and Announcements Clinical/Health Office of Clinical and Health Affairs Rutgers Health Providers News COVID-19 Information Universitywide COVID-19 Information RBHS Campus Status COVID-19 Health Briefing On the Pandemic Podcast Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Dr. Amy Murtha Appointed Dean of Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School Dr. Amy Murtha Appointed Dean of Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School An accomplished researcher and specialist in maternal-fetal medicine, Dr. Murtha joins Rutgers in August. Read more about the announcement One RBHS: The Way Forward One RBHS: The Way Forward We're heading in a bold new direction, with the 2022-2027 Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences Strategic Plan as our guide. Explore the plan now Rutgers Forward Rutgers Forward Rutgers' first-Ever University Diversity Strategic Plan strengthens our commitment to excellence through equity and inclusion. Explore the Plan 2022 Rutgers Rising Stars Announced 2022 Rutgers Rising Stars Announced Rising Star scholars are recognized for their academic achievement, excellence in discovery, innovation and entrepreneurship, and commitment to our community. Learn more about the 2022 honorees Previous Next Biomedical and Health Sciences Schools Centers & Institutes Rutgers Health LEADING THE WAY IN ACADEMIC HEALTH CARE As the university's academic health center, Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) conducts research, trains health professionals, and provides patient care through our Rutgers Health practice. We offer an outstanding education in medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, public health, nursing, biomedical research, and the full spectrum of allied health careers. We conduct basic and clinical research on a wide range of health topics and transform our discoveries into medical innovations that advance care. We have a simple goal: improve human health. NEWS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS ONE RBHS: The Way Forward Launch Event Join us at 10 a.m. Friday, April 22, for the launch of the new 2022-2027 RBHS Strategic Plan — One RBHS: The Way Forward and learn how you can participate in ensuring our collective success. Rutgers Senate Elections Results Congratulations to all newly elected senators for their service to the RBHS and Rutgers University communities. RBHS Strategic Plan Launch Chancellor Strom announces the release of the new RBHS Strategic Plan (2022-2027) – ONE RBHS: The Way Forward. Academics Schools Centers and Institutes Locations Office of Academic and Student Affairs Cost of Attendance Tuition and Fees Ethics Ethics Code of Conduct University Policy Library RBHS Policies Healthcare Compliance Policies HIPAA Research Office of Research and Economic Development Office of Research and Sponsored Programs Patient Care Rutgers Health Find a Provider Community Health Student Health Clinical Trials For Faculty myRutgers Human Resources Faculty Affairs Events Calendar Rutgers–New Brunswick Information for Faculty Rutgers–New Brunswick Parking Rutgers–Newark Information for Faculty Rutgers–Newark Parking International Services Copyright © , Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, an equal opportunity, affirmative action institution. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | Contact webmaster | Accessibility