Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MBA Academics Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Student Life Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Campus The Neighborhood Explore NYC Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Review Process Events Class Visit Program Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Tuition & Financial Aid Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees More MBA Options and Deadlines MBA Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team One MBA, Two Paths Columbia Business School students may enroll in either August or January. The two paths, each comprised of four terms, merge in the fall of the second year to complete electives as a single class. The paths are identical in terms of competitiveness of admissions, academic rigor, and student resources; but only students who enter in August will be able to complete a summer internship. January (J-Term) students, having completed their first-term courses in the spring, will instead complete their second-term course work over the summer. August 2023 Entry Application Deadlines We expect the 2023 application to be available in early June. Early Decision September 28, 2022 Merit Fellowship January 11, 2023 Regular Decision April 5, 2023 January 2023 Entry Application Deadline We expect the 2023 application to be available in early June. Regular Decision September 28, 2022 August Entry About 70 percent of our full-time MBA students begin their studies in the fall term. After mandatory orientation in the second half of August, regular classes begin in September. Most August-entry students complete a summer internship between their second and third terms. The August entry has two application review periods — Early Decision and Regular Decision. Because we use a rolling admissions process, it is always to your advantage to apply well before the deadline. Early Decision Available for August entry applicants only. Application deadline in early October. Early Decision applications are reviewed, and decisions rendered, before Regular Decision applications. Admitted students for Early Decision are considered for merit-based awards. Candidates have decided that Columbia is their first choice and must sign the following Statement of Commitment within their applications: I am committed to attending Columbia Business School and will withdraw all applications and decline all offers from other schools upon admission to Columbia Business School. Applicants must submit a nonrefundable US $6,000 tuition deposit within two weeks of admission. Regular Decision Candidates may submit Regular Decision applications as soon as the application becomes available in the summer. Regular Decision applications are reviewed after Early Decision applications, which typically begins in late November. No Statement of Commitment is required. For priority consideration of merit-based fellowships, applications should be submitted by the specified merit-based fellowship deadline in early January. Final application deadline is typically in April. January Entry Students who do not want or need a summer internship may consider beginning their MBA studies in January and completing their second semester of classes during the summer. A January start may be ideal for students who wish to remain in the same industry after graduation or pursue entrepreneurial interests. About 30 percent of our students enter in January. Learn more about the J-Term → Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application Application Deadlines January 2023 Entry Final September 28, 2022 August 2023 Entry Early September 28, 2022 Merit Fellowship January 11, 2023 Final April 5, 2023 Deferred Enrollment Program Final April 15, 2022 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats