Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MBA Academics Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Student Life Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Campus The Neighborhood Explore NYC Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Review Process Events Class Visit Program Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Tuition & Financial Aid Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees More Dual Degree Programs MBA Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Columbia Business School offers a wide range of dual degree options for students who wish to deepen their expertise in areas outside of business. In most cases, a dual degree requires one fewer year than pursuing the degrees separately, though this varies depending on the program. Students can combine a Columbia MBA with one of 11 other professional degrees such as law, engineering, medicine, international affairs, or social work. Interested candidates must apply separately to the Business School and the second school or program. Each school makes admission decisions independently. Dual degree students register in one school per term. Columbia Business School does not defer students to future terms, so dual degree applicants should apply to the Business School for the term in which they plan to enroll. Exceptions may be considered to this policy on a case-by-case basis and for the 3 year JD/MBA. Students must tailor their registration in subsequent terms to meet their academic objectives, and both schools’ course, residence, and sequencing requirements. Students pay the tuition and fees of, and are granted financial aid by, the school in which they are in residence. School-specific scholarships and fellowships are usually not transferable. Admissions With the exception of the 3-Year JD/MBA, applications for admission to Columbia Business School and participating dual degree schools must be filed separately. For all other dual degrees, each school’s admissions decisions are based solely on that school’s selection criteria and are made independently. Applicants may either apply simultaneously to both schools, or begin their studies at one school and apply to the other school prior to completing half of the coursework of the first school. University students who apply to the Business School after this deadline may still be considered for admission, but will not be eligible for the dual degree program. Although applicants may apply simultaneously to both schools, they cannot begin both programs simultaneously. Columbia Business School does not defer students to future terms, so dual degree applicants should apply to the Business School for the term in which they plan to enroll. Exceptions may be considered to this policy on a case-by-case basis. Academic Requirements The MBA requirements for degree candidates are quite similar to those for two-year, full-time MBAs. The primary distinction is that dual degree students need to complete a total of 45 over three terms of residency rather than 60 credits over four terms of residency in order to graduate, with the difference being in the number of electives that must be taken. Additionally, dual degree candidates may not count cross-registered courses toward their MBA degree requirements. As each program maintains its own degree requirements, dual degree candidates should also consult the second school or program for more information on what is needed to complete all requirements. Note that degrees are conferred simultaneously once all degree requirements are met for both schools. To learn more about registration, sequencing requirements, financial aid, and more, email [email protected] or call 212-854-1961. Established dual-degree tracks include: Architecture: MBA and MS in Urban Planning Dental and Oral Surgery: DDS and MBA Engineering and Applied Science: MBA and MS in Industrial Engineering International and Public Affairs: MBA and MIA Journalism: MBA and MS Law: JD and MBA Nursing: MBA and MS in Nursing Physicians and Surgeons: MD and MBA Public Health: MBA and MPH Social Work: MBA and MS in Social Work Teachers College: MBA and MA in Private School Leadership Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application Application Deadlines January 2023 Entry Final September 28, 2022 August 2023 Entry Early September 28, 2022 Merit Fellowship January 11, 2023 Final April 5, 2023 Deferred Enrollment Program Final April 15, 2022 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats