Skip to main content Search Spyglass Menu Toggle menu MBA Academics Curriculum Core Curriculum Electives Dual Degree Programs Academic Divisions, Centers, & Programs Academic Calendar Faculty Academic Support Degree Requirements Student Life Student Organizations Leadership Groups Clubs Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity Black Business Students Association Cluster Q (LGBTQ) Columbia Women in Business Hispanic Business Association Military in Business Association The Culture of NYC Campus The Neighborhood Explore NYC Student Profiles Career Support Admissions Options and Deadlines Deferred Enrollment Program J-Term 3-Year JD/MBA Consortium Application Requirements Review Process Events Class Visit Program Recorded Events Class Profile Frequently Asked Questions Ready to Apply? Contact the Admissions Team Contact a Student Tuition & Financial Aid Fellowships Scholarships Military and Veterans Loans University Employees More Family-Friendly Events MBA Student Organizations Events Family-Friendly Events International Students Diversity The Culture of NYC Student Profiles The Better Halves Club welcome any significant other of any Columbia Business School student to welcome them to the community. See the many advantages of linking in with other family members by viewing this program video.. Starting graduate school can be a big adjustment for anyone, and that goes double for a student’s spouse, partner, or children—particularly when moving to a new city. While the transition can seem daunting, the Office of Student Affairs is committed to helping students and their families alike become part of the Columbia Business School community. As an additional resource, a student-led interest group, Columbia’s Better Halves, creates venues for significant others, fiancées/fiancés, spouses, and families of students to meet one another. They help those who recently moved to New York develop a social network and help locals expand their circle of friends. Activities include family-friendly events such as Halloween Family Day, playground events, dinners, cultural excursions, and an important orientation initiative to better prepare partners for the demands of an MBA education. In addition, Columbia Business School events and programs such as Fall Ball, Spring Fling, Holiday Party for Kids, Happy Hour, Coffee House, Follies, and community service are all important traditions at Columbia Business School and a great way to meet people and become involved in the Business School community. These events are run by students and happen throughout the year. For those new to the area, New York is an exciting place, and it offers plenty to do, including museums, neighborhoods, transportation, and more. We encourage you to make the most of your time in this amazing city and look forward to getting to know you. Stay in touch Download a brochure Attend an information session Start your application Application Deadlines January 2023 Entry Final September 28, 2022 August 2023 Entry Early September 28, 2022 Merit Fellowship January 11, 2023 Final April 5, 2023 Deferred Enrollment Program Final April 15, 2022 Academic Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters & Partners Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100 Maps and Directions Back to Top Upward arrow TOP © Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements Apply Contact Us Academic Programs MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Us Recruitment & Partnerships Center & Programs Current Students For Staff Newsroom Map and Directions CSS Cheat broken widths with Carousels Internal Page Carousel CSS Cheats