Skip to main content Search for: Ex: How do I apply to Providence College? Menu Apply Visit Give Coronavirus Information & Updates Parents & Families Alumni Media MY-PC Events About Admission Undergraduate Continuing Education Graduate Programs Academics Catholic & Dominican Diversity Student Life Athletics Close menu Site Home> The Liberal Arts at Providence College The Liberal Arts at Providence College A liberal arts education is an invitation to excel in scholarship, creativity, and character. Providence College students are defined by excellence because they define — and redefine — it every day. At Providence College, we value critical thinking, celebrate the linkage of faith and reason in the quest for knowledge, and recognize the importance of moral and ethical reasoning, artistic appreciation, and understanding the natural world, other cultures, and diverse traditions. Our curriculum is intentionally well-rounded to combine the breadth and depth of a liberal arts education. Here, science and history majors explore art, literature, theology, and philosophy, as well as issues related to our increasingly global and diverse society. A PC liberal arts education is an education in the human experience – one that is grounded in the ages but essential for success in the modern world. PC Liberal Arts Perspectives Dr. Michelle Tolini Finamore ’91 Liberal Arts Big Picture from Providence College on Vimeo. Dr. Vance Morgan Dr. Vance Morgan is a professor of philosophy and the former director of PC’s signature Development of Western Civilization Program. He believes in the liberal arts. He thinks you should, too. PC Core Curriculum Development of Western Civilization PC Honors Program PC Academic Programs Undergraduate Research at PC Study Abroad at PC Outcomes Resources Liberal Arts in the Data Age For philosophy majors, the question after graduation is: What next? Good News Liberal-Arts Majors: Your Peers Probably Won’t Outearn You Forever It Takes More than a Major: Employer Priorities for College Learning and Student Success: Overview and Key Findings Liberal Arts Grads Win Long-Term Employees Who Stand Out Forget the MBAs. Hire Liberal Arts Majors The Big University The Proof Liberal Arts Colleges Need? 1 Cunningham Square Providence, RI 02918 USA Tel: +1.401.865.1000 Contact PC Support PC Emergency Information Student Consumer Information Academics Majors, Minors, Programs Academic Calendar Library People & Places Offices & Services Directory People Directory Maps & Directions Visit Facts & Info Fast Facts Jobs Mass Schedule Annual Security Report Title IX & Sexual Harassment Copyright ©2022. Providence College Terms of Use | Privacy Policy If you are having trouble viewing or accessing these web pages, please email our Web Accessibility Coordinator Page maintained by: PC Web Services | About This Site