Skip to content Undergraduate Research Division of Student Learning and Academic Success Main Menu Prospective ResearchersMenu Toggle What is Research? Why do Research? How to Get Started Research Learning Communities New to UCF? Introduction to Research Courses Research Positions Database Current ResearchersMenu Toggle Overview & Current Opportunities Funding OpportunitiesMenu Toggle Student Research Grants Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship Federal Work Study Award Programs Publication and Presentation Opportunities Programs with Course Credit Summer Off Campus Research Leadership Opportunities Safety Faculty ResearchersMenu Toggle Research-Intensive Course Designation Directed Independent Research (4912) Recognition for Mentoring Effective Mentoring Practices Find Students Fund Students Professional Development AboutMenu Toggle Request a Presentation Workshops and Deadlines Mission and Vision Meet the Team Contact Us Councils ListServ Sign-Up Office of Undergraduate Research Policies Leadership Opportunities Volunteering: Student Undergraduate Research Council (SURC) About About the Council The Student Undergraduate Research Council (SURC) promotes undergraduate research for students at the University of Central Florida. Council members’ responsibilities include, but are not limited to: Advising the Office of Undergraduate Research (OUR) on programming and other efforts. Attending monthly meetings with OUR staff. Promoting undergraduate research at workshops, tabling events, and speaking engagements. Working as a team to develop, strengthen, and expand undergraduate research awareness at UCF. Council members should expect to spend approximately 10 hours per month, including evenings and occasional weekend events, working on SURC events and supporting the Office of Undergraduate Research. SURC members’ term of service on the Council begins with Orientation in May 2022. Benefits As a benefit of serving on this council, SURC members who have completed at least 15 hours of service and are in good standing with the Council are eligible for up to $300 in research funding. Eligibility If you are interested in applying to be part of the Council, the following criteria must be met: Prior research experience (at least one semester) Not on Academic Probation Graduation no earlier than May 2023 Meet the 2021 - 2022 Council 2021-2022 Student Undergraduate Research Council – Undergraduate Research (ucf.edu) Apply to SURC Paid: Peer Mentoring Summer Research Academy Peer Mentors Undergraduate students with experience in research and creative activities bring vital knowledge which they share with SRA participants in several ways: Serve as mentors and coaches for student participants who have questions about campus resources and academy assignments Serve as mentors to students regarding the UCF research experience Run small group learning sessions during the academy Provide additional support as requested by Summer Research Academy staff OUR Peer Mentors OUR Peer Mentors work in the Office of Undergraduate Research throughout the year. These Peer Mentors run our Peer Advising Hours, in which they provide guidance, advice, and support to students who are just getting started with undergraduate research and students who are already involved. They also assist in outreach activities, such as class visits and tabling events. This is a one-year commitment which typically begins in the summer semester and runs through the end of the Spring term (at least). *Peer mentor applications are currently closed. This page will be updated with the link to apply, but applications will likely not open until Summer 2023. Apply to be an SRA Peer Mentor! Overview & Current Opportunities Funding Opportunities Award Programs Publication and Presentation Opportunities URJ Writing Club Access Request Programs with Course Credit Summer Off Campus Research Leadership Opportunities Safety and Ethics Resources Undergraduate Research Division of Student Learning and Academic Success our@ucf.edu 407-882-2300 Trevor Colbourn Hall, Suite 205 Excellence, Innovation, and Distinction ✦ Copyright © 2022 Division of Student Learning and Academic Success | College of Undergraduate Studies The University of Central Florida is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award degrees at the associate, baccalaureate, master’s, specialist, and doctoral levels. Questions about the accreditation of UCF may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC’s website (www.sacscoc.org).