Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Digital Accessibility Search Training Accessibility Trainings On-Demand Training Videos Resources For Content Creators For Developers For Managers Accessibility Testing Multimedia Accessibility Documents Technology Procurement Accessibility Services and Labs Techniques Disabilities Assistive Technologies Elements Technologies Principles Policies Digital Accessibility Policy Procurement and Development Settlement Caption Requirements FAQs About DAS HOME / Training Videos Browse on-demand training videos on accessibility topics such as content, documents, development, and testing. Introduction to Section 508 Course Description: This course provides an overview of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and how this U.S. Federal law regulates software and hardware accessibility. Audience: Managers, Designers, Developers, Quality Assurance Specialist, Content Authors, Social Media and Digital Communications Contributors, Human Resources Personnel, Procurement Personnel. ... Read more about Introduction to Section 508 Authoring a VPAT Course description: As the Demand for accessible technology grows, so does the demand for manufacturers and vendors to provide Voluntary Product Accessibility Templates (VPATs) to formally document conformance with accessibility laws and standards. A well written VPAT is a compelling competitive differentiator, showing potential buyers that you're actively evaluating and building accessibility into the products and services you deliver. In this course, you will learn everything you need to know about authoring top-notch VPATs. Audience: Anyone. ... Read more about Authoring a VPAT Tips to Author Accessible Sites Using Adobe Experience Manager Course description: This course covers the basic steps that a content creator should take in order to create accessible sites using Adobe Experience Manager (AEM). Audience: Content Editors. ... Read more about Tips to Author Accessible Sites Using Adobe Experience Manager Accessibility in IT Procurement Course description: Purchasing products and building partnerships? Ensuring accessibility of your solutions starts with validating your vendor's accessibility. Vendor sourced products and services make up the majority of organization IT, and most products and services do not meet accessibility technical standards. Audience: Product Managers and Vendors. ... Read more about Accessibility in IT Procurement Accessibility Using Adobe DC Pro Course description: By taking this course, you will learn how to identify accessibility issues in PDF documents, understand the impact to users with disabilities, perform automatic checking using Adobe Acrobat Pro, manually evaluate PDF documents for accessibility, and repair accessibility issues. Audience: Designers, Content Editors. ... Read more about Accessibility Using Adobe DC Pro Introduction to Web Accessibility Course description: This course looks at advanced techniques for the design, creation, and evaluation of accessible web content. Audience: Designers, Developers, Testers, QA Analysts and Specialists. ... Read more about Introduction to Web Accessibility WordPress: Accessibility Course description: If you build a website with WordPress, build it with accessibility in mind. Making your content, themes, navigation, and other site features accessible helps everyone - including visitors who want to find your site through search engine results. This course, merging WordPress coding with accessible web design techniques, helps you make sure your website meets modern accessibility standards. You'll learn how to use the power of WordPress to quickly build a beautiful and accessible website that can be used by people with different types of abilities. Author Joe Dolson provides a broad introduction to accessibility and then focuses on practical steps to make sure your WordPress themes, plugins, and content are accessible and usable to all. Audience: Designers and Developers. ... Read more about WordPress: Accessibility Creating Accessible Documents in Microsoft Office Course description: This course shows how to make accessible Office documents in Word, PowerPoint, and Excel. Accessibility expert Glenna Shaw begins by describing what it's like for those with visual, hearing, or movement impairments to experience regular Word and Excel files and PowerPoint presentations. Glenna goes through the essential steps of creating documents that are accessible to all - those using assistive technology and those not - including applying useful headings, formatting tables for ease of use, naming sheet tabs in Excel, using slide layouts and following z-order in PowerPoint, and adding captioning to presentations. Audience: Anyone. ... Read more about Creating Accessible Documents in Microsoft Office Accessibility for Web Design Course description: Are you doing everything you can to make sure your sites are accessible and easy to use? Learn practical accessibility techniques to ensure your web designs can be viewed and used by everyone. Internationally recognized accessibility expert Derek Featherstone walks through examples of common web interaction flows, and then steps through considerations and tactical strategies for each component, to assure that people with disabilities can easily complete those tasks. Learn the proper use of color, contrast, and motion, and find out how to design keyboard interactions and touch interfaces; incorporate images, sound, and video; design accessible forms; structure content at the tag level; and balance responsive design with accessibility. Audience: UX / UI Designers, Interaction Designers, Web Designers. ... Read more about Accessibility for Web Design Getting Started with Inclusive Design Course description: This course covers the critical steps in making your designs more inclusive to a large audience, including those with disabilities. Audience: Designers, Content Authors, UI and UX professionals, Project Managers, QA Specialists. ... Read more about Getting Started with Inclusive Design Disability Awareness & Etiquette Course description: This course is an introductory lesson into different disabilities and etiquette when interacting with people with disabilities. Audience: Anyone. ... Read more about Disability Awareness & Etiquette Accessibility Concepts v2.0 Course description: This course provides an overview of accessibility and how it applies to Information and Communications Technology (ICT). It is designed for those who will be introduced to the different types of disabilities, assistive technology, business drivers for accessibility, and various accessibility standards. Audience: Managers, Designers, Developers, Quality Assurance Specialist, Content Authors, Social Media and Digital Communications Contributors, Human Resources Personnel, Procurement Personnel. ... Read more about Accessibility Concepts v2.0 Accessibility for Designers Course description: This Accessibility for Designers course will help designers make sure that accessibility is incorporated from the outset to prevent retrofits and redesigns. Audience: Designers, Content Authors, UI and UX professionals, Project Managers, QA Specialists. ... Read more about Accessibility for Designers Quick Tips for Writing Meaningful Alt Text Course description: This course was designed for content editors and content creators with the goal of delivering tips for writing meaningful ALT text. Audience: Anyone. ... Read more about Quick Tips for Writing Meaningful Alt Text Best Practices for Creating Accessible Emails Course description: This lesson covers the best practices for creating accessible emails for people with disabilities. Audience: Anyone. ... Read more about Best Practices for Creating Accessible Emails Pages 1 2 3 » last Filter training videos by topic Intro to Accessibility Digital Content Documents Design and Development Policy Testing All training videos Siteimprove Usability script Custom JS jquery section expander Site-wide CSS Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement