Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Accessible KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About ADA RCEA Select to follow link People Our Mission Contact Accessibility Resources Select to follow link Planning Accessible Events Emergency Evacuation Procedures Content Accessibility ADA Compliance Select to follow link Architectural Barriers Committee Transition Plan Training & Events Select to follow link ADA 30 - Nothing About Us Without Us - A Virtual Celebration With Judith Heumann Select to follow link Event schedule Panelists and Moderators Event media Mentoring Circles for Disability Inclusion Program Training Materials National Disability Employment Awareness Month Events #DisabilityArt Council for Disability Inclusion Panel Intro to Audio Description Accommodations Select to follow link Academic Accommodations Employment Accommodations Housing Resources Parking Special Diets Emotional Support Animal Jaylift Content Accessibility Select to follow link Ally for LMS and Web Documents Select to follow link Scanned Documents Word Documents Excel Documents PowerPoint Presentations PDF Documents Email Video Select to follow link Captioning General Process for Captioning Approved Captioning Vendors YouTube Videos Transcripts Audio Description Web Pages Select to follow link Alt Text for Images Correct use of Headers Links Tables Focus Lists Color Considerations Accessible Forms Resources Select to follow link Campus Resources Community Resources Edwards Campus Resources Local Employment Resources Statewide Resources Parent & Visitor Resources Maps ADA RCEA Best Practice Guidelines for Planning an Accessible Event ADA RCEA Mental Health Resource Guide Videos Select to follow link ADA Impact Videos Hawk Route Videos Past Videos Community Mental Health Supports Select to follow link Campus Resources Community Resources Faculty Resources Mental Health Information Mental Health On Campus Resources for Times of Crisis Policies Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Accessible KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Resources Campus Resources Select one of the services below to learn more Academic Achievement and Access Center Click to expand Offers services and programs to assist students in their academic success. Student Access Center ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility Click to expand The ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility is responsible for promoting an accessible and inclusive campus. This site contains information and links for employees to learn about employment accommodations, campus accessibility, and available accessibility-related trainings. ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility Guides: Mental Health Resources Guide Best Practices for Planning an Accessible Event Guide Audio-Reader Click to expand Reading and information service for the visually impaired. Audio Reader also specializes in Audio Description for live performances and events, museum exhibits and video. Child and Family Services Clinic Click to expand Provides affordable, quality mental health care to children, adolescents, and families of the Lawrence community and surrounding areas. Child and Family Services Clinic Content Accessibility Site Click to expand Provides resources and information about how to create accessible online content. Content Accessibility Site Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Click to expand CAPS can help students with issues related to adjusting to college and other psychological, interpersonal, and family problems. Individual, couple, and group sessions are available. Disability in the Workplace Resources Click to expand The School of Engineering Career Center created this guide to educate job seekers and employers about rights, responsibilities, and options when it comes to disability in the workplace. Students with Disabilities Institute for Health and Disability Policy Studies Click to expand Conducts research to inform health and disability policy, with the goal of improving access to quality care for all people, particularly those with disabilities or chronic illness. Institute for Health and Disability Policy Studies Kansas Telecommunications Access Program (TAP) Click to expand Provides equipment to persons who are deaf, hard of hearing, blind, or have other sensory or mobility impairments that interfere with conventional access to telecommunications. Kansas Telecommunications Access Program KU Libraries Click to expand List of services available to persons with disabilities in the Library system. KU Life Span Institute and Affiliated Centers Click to expand Each Center of the Life Span Institute draws together researchers from diverse fields and backgrounds with the common goal of investigating specific problems of human development, disabilities, and aging. KU Professionals for Inclusion and Social Justice Click to expand Group of graduates who act as change agents and develop cultural awareness. Professionals for Inclusion and Social Justice KU Recreation Services Click to expand Features of inclusiveness within the KU Recreation Services. Mental Health Resources Click to expand A collection of resources relating to mental health on the KU campus, in the community, and online. Mental Health Resources Psychology Clinic Click to expand Low cost out-patient mental health service. Schiefelbusch Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic Click to expand Comprehensive services to people with communicative disorders. Schiefelbusch Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic Sign Language Interpreter/CART Services Click to expand To make event requests, use this Interpreter/CART Request Form. Sign Language Interpreting TRIO Click to expand TRIO programs provide educational opportunities for low-income individuals, first-generation college-bound students, and disabled Americans. Report Barriers Report Barriers Carruth-O'Leary Hall 1246 W Campus Rd Lawrence, KS 66045 accessibility@ku.edu 785-864-4946 instagram twitter Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.