Skip to main content Web Accessibility at Penn Overview Digital Accessibility Policy News and Updates Testing and Evaluation Testing for Accessibility Automated Testing Manual Testing Design and Usability Testing Resources Resources FAQ Captioning For Developers For Faculty For Content Creators For Designers Working with Vendors Accessible Documents Training and Events Calendar Past Events Need Help? Get Help Report issues or Give Feedback Schedule Training or Consultation Overview Digital Accessibility Policy Digital Accessibility Policy Overview Web accessibility is a shared, continuous responsibility for members of the Penn community involved in the development, creation, publishing, or sharing of digital resources. Adherence to Penn’s standards ensures that electronic content is available to and usable by everyone, especially people with disabilities. Penn’s Digital Accessibility Policy [updated April 1, 2022] University websites and web applications that are created or undergo significant revisions or redesign after April 1, 2022 are expected to meet The Worldwide Web Consortium’s Web Content Accessibility Guidelines version 2.1, Level AA Conformance (WCAG 2.1 Level AA). This policy extends to any form of electronic resource used for instruction, information distribution, or communication. This includes, but is not limited to, electronic documents (PDFs, spreadsheets, and email), multimedia files (YouTube videos and Podcasts), and online instructional lessons and events (course content and Commencement). For University websites and web applications created before April 1, 2022, our policy remains WCAG 2.0, Level AA. However, website and web application owners are strongly encouraged to update their sites and applications to meet WCAG 2.1, Level AA standards when making other changes or updates. What is considered a “significant revision”? Significant revisions include the adoption of/migration to a new platform, modification to the majority of the content, or another change that substantially alters usability or design. Penn web owners who manage sites that are maintained, upgraded, or updated by external vendors must ensure that the external vendor delivers accessible technology and/or content when the contract is renewed. Did you find this content useful? Yes No How can we improve this content? Can we contact you about your feedback? If so, please enter your email address. CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Web Accessibility at Penn Digital Accessibility Policy News and Updates Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help ©2021 University of Pennsylvania