Digital Accessibility at Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Initiatives Policies & Guidelines Submenu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Quality Assurance Submenu Testing & Consultations Website Quality Assurance Tools Training Submenu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants How To... Submenu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility News Accommodations Get Help Search Search Section Menu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility Identify Languages University sites generally identify each page's language as English. This means screen readers will pronounce all text on the page as if it was written in English. For non-English text, the result is unintelligible gibberish. If you are authoring content inside of a page that is a language other than English you will have to identify the language of that section or quote. Most content management systems provide a button for this; highlight the relevant content, click the button, and select the correct language from the list: Don't do This Unidentified language <p>Mi profesora de español esta embarazada.</p> Pronounced/interpreted: Am I professor Ade? A spaniel is too embarrassed. Uhh... Do This Identified language <p lang="es">Mi profesora de español esta embarazada.</p> Pronounced: Mi profesora de español esta embarazada Actually means: My Spanish professor is pregnant. Testing for Accessibility To test Use the WAVE tool to scan the page. It will mark any text assigned a language tag with a globe icon. Click the icon for further information: Applicable WCAG Success Criteria SC 3.1.2 Language of Parts Resources Oregon State University's page on multilingual text content List of language codes for HTML Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University