Digital Accessibility at Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Initiatives Policies & Guidelines Submenu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Quality Assurance Submenu Testing & Consultations Website Quality Assurance Tools Training Submenu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants How To... Submenu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility News Accommodations Get Help Search Search Section Menu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility Avoid Using Color Alone Relying on color alone to communicate information causes barriers to access for many readers: colorblind and low vision users may not be able to perceive the color differences, and screen readers do not announce colors to non-sighted readers. Best Practices Have a secondary indicator that text is linked: not just another color, but also underlined, or bold, or placed on a color background. When differentiating elements in charts and graphs, do not just change the color, also change shapes, patterns or the like, or provide some other other visual differentiation like direct segment labels. Provide a text alternative for very complicated charts and graphics. Don't do This Why Is This Wrong? The only way to correlate the data series to the values in the line graph is through color, and no text alternative is available (the alt text on the image reads: "line chart of color contrast vs background color") Without color perception, these issues become starkly apparent: Do This Color Contrast on White Contrast on Black Princeton Orange 3:1 5.7:1 Cool Blue 3:1 7:1 Vivid Blue 6.7:1 3:1 Dark Red 7:1 3:1 Why Is This Right? Many alternatives to color are visible here: The lines are differentiated by vertex point shape and a hash pattern as well as color. The labels are visually linked to their lines. A purely text alternative is provided with the source data. Using markers in the line graphs that correlate to the series legends provides a visual redundancy and no longer relies on color alone to communicate information. Adding the data table as a text equivalent actually renders the graphic as decorative content as well. Here is the same chart in black and white: It may not be easy to understand this without color, but it is certainly possible to locate lines based on shape and label proximity and then track them to their opposing matching vertex shape. But providing the table means a user presented with this challenge, or a screen reader user, could simply skim the table instead. Testing for Accessibility Test There are no automated or programmatic tests for this requirement; you simply have to review your content and design to ensure you do not have any items (like charts and graphs) that rely on color as the sole means of communication. Applicable WCAG Success Criteria Color is not the only visual means of conveying information(link is external) (1.4.1) Resources WebAim's article on communicating to the colorblind user Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University