Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU > Students > Pathfinders Program > Pathfinders Community Contract Pathfinders Community Contract ACCESS FOR STUDENTS Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program FAQ’s CONTACT US At Pathfinders, we believe in creating a safe, comfortable environment where all students feel welcome and secure. Our Community Contract highlights our core beliefs, values, and guidelines as a campus group. Community Contract Value #1 – Speak with Kindness At Pathfinders, we only use speech that creates a safe environment for all students, staff, and volunteers involved. This speech is free of hate, malice, and vulgarity. Our speech, to the best of our ability, will cause no harm to others in the group. Value #2 – Acceptance of Others In Pathfinders, we accept people as they are. We do not discriminate based on religion, sexual orientation, race, gender, or on any other basis. We accept group members as they are. Though we push each other to grow and learn, we believe in the genuineness of each group member. We accept their shared feelings and thoughts with dignity and respect. Value #3 – Confidentiality Our group values confidentiality. As we process, share, and disclose personal stories, we believe in keeping each other’s information private. Our group is a safe space to process thoughts and emotions, and we keep this space safe by not discussing group members’ information. Wrapping Things Up We expect all members of Pathfinders – students, volunteers, and staff – to uphold the Community Contract. We maintain this Community Contract because we care for one another and because we keep a safe, warm space for all who join Pathfinders. Upholding this contract is an act of kindness, caring, and compassion for yourself and your fellow group members. Community Statement As a member of Pathfinders, I am expected to uphold these values. I, to the best of my ability, will uphold the values of Pathfinders by abiding by the Community Contract. I follow these core values because I care about Pathfinders and the safe space it provides. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT