Digital Accessibility at Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Initiatives Policies & Guidelines Submenu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Quality Assurance Submenu Testing & Consultations Website Quality Assurance Tools Training Submenu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants How To... Submenu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility News Accommodations Get Help Search Search Section Menu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Information Technology Procurement Accessibility Guidelines Overview Architecture and Security Review VPAT Accessibility Conformance Report Third Party User Experience Testing Product Accessibility Roadmap Product Demonstration or Test Overview These guidelines provide resources for campus departments and vendors to help ensure that IT products that the University procures meet accessibility standards and are consistent with institutional values for equity and inclusion. Ideally, IT products should be fully usable by people with disabilities, so they have equally effective access as people without disabilities have. Architecture and Security Review Departments are encouraged to discuss proposed products, and those up for contract renewals, with the Architecture and Security Review team to help ensure they meet the University's expectations for accessibility. VPAT Accessibility Conformance Report The University expects vendors to detail the accessibility of their product using the Information Technology Industry Council's Voluntary Product Accessibility Template (VPAT), using the 2.4 WCAG version of the report to indicate conformance to the World Wide Web Consortium's Content Accessibility Guidelines. The VPAT template should be filled out in its entirety and include testing methodology, conformance level, and detailed remarks for any partially-supported or non-supported level per the success criteria of WCAG 2.0 AA. Third Party User Experience (UX) Testing The University expects vendors to follow the best and increasingly common practice of having their products UX tested by an industry-recognized accessibility testing company or organization. While meeting technical accessibility requirements provides baseline access, UX testing reveals further blockers and confusing elements that should be addressed to ensure the product is truly usable by people who have disabilities. Product Accessibility Roadmap Vendors are expected to provide the University with an Accessibility Roadmap (.docx) document, structured to match the test findings of and accessibility UX tests. Each issue to be remediated should indicate a date by which it will be fixed. Departments should ensure the contract requires the vendor to commit to the roadmap, and should follow up with the vendor on a regular basis. Product Demonstration or Test The University may request a product demonstration of the accessibility of a product, or may conduct its own testing. The vendor should be prepared to provide a test account as well as a tour of the accessibility features (demonstrating both keyboard support and screen reader support) of their product. In general, the University does not conduct tests until after the vendor has conducted its own thorough testing and has submitted its VPAT report as described above. Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University