Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU University Disability Resources COVID-19 Resources LDC Portal FAQs Accommodation Statement About Search General Inquiries Student Accommodations Workplace Accommodations Effective Communication Ergonomics Housing Service and Assistance Animals Parking & Transportation Grievance Procedure Digital Access Academic Alternative Format Assistive Tech Lending Captioning Inclusive Content Creation and Delivery Innovation Pilot Projects Usability Testing Campus Access Campus Map Getting Around Construction and Renovation Event Planning At the Event Emergency Planning Publicity Materials Space Selection Tools & Resources Newsletter Student Coordinators Vendors & Service Providers Ombuds Professional Organizations Frequently Asked Questions HOME / GENERAL INQUIRIES / Ergonomics RESIDENTIAL STUDENT HOUSING - STUDENTS Students who wish to request accommodations should contact their school's Local Student Disability Coordinator (LDC) to initiate the reasonable accommodation exploration process. Many LDCs have resources and forms posted on their website to begin the process. Please see the LDC List to find your School’s contact person or office. Faculty and Staff For general foundational information regarding ergonomics at Harvard, including adjusting your furniture and office equipment and vendor information, please visit Harvard Environmental Health and Safety. Employees may complete an ergonomic assessment via EH&S Computer Workstation Self-Assessment & Training program (Harvard Key Login). This program is intended to educate you on the basics of ergonomics and then have you apply this knowledge to adjust your workstation. If additional assistance is needed after the completion of the online self-assessment & training program, a representative from EH&S can be available to provide an in-person evaluation of your workstation. Requests for an in-person evaluation can be made on the EH&S website. Employees wishing to request a workplace reasonable accommodation should refer to Workplace Accommodations. General Inquiries Student Accommodations Workplace Accommodations Effective Communication Ergonomics Housing Service and Assistance Animals Parking & Transportation Grievance Procedure Contact Us Harvard University Disability Resources Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Suite 900. | 617-495-1859 | TTY: 617-496-0466 | Fax: 617-495-8520 | disabilityresources@harvard.edu| Directions to our office Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement