Skip to Navigation Skip to UConn Search Skip to Content Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. UConn University of Connecticut school of University of Connecticut Search University of Connecticut Search UConn A to Z Index UConn A to Z Index Site A-Z UConn A-Z Office of Institutional Equity Accessibility Search this SiteSearch in https://accessibility.uconn.edu/>Search Toggle navigation Accessibility Home Students Employees Visitors Accessibility at UConn Accessibility at UConn Campus Access Interpreting and Communication Report an Accessibility Issue UConn Accessibility Policies IT Accessibility Resources Event Planning Faculty / Staff Resources Parking and Transportation UConn Health Contact Search this SiteSearch in https://accessibility.uconn.edu/>Search Accessibility at UConn Students Employees Visitors IT Accessibility UConn is committed to providing equal access and full participation for individuals with disabilities within all University programs and activities. This website serves as a central resource for information related to accessibility at UConn. Accommodations Accommodations may be adaptations to elements of a student's academic program or modifications or an adjustment to a job or work environment. Visitors and guests may also receive accommodations to fully participate in an event, activity or program. Interpreting / Communication American Sign Language Interpretation or Communication Access Realtime Transcription (CART) for classes, programs or events are available through the University of Connecticut Interpreting Services (UCIS). Videophones and assistive listening devices are also available on campus. Campus Access Each of the UConn campuses have their own unique landscape and facilities. UConn Storrs is a campus founded on rolling peaks and valleys. Information for getting around each campus includes maps, transportation and parking services. Report an Accessibility Issue UConn strives to ensure physical, electronic, and programmatic access for persons with disabilities. Any access concerns may be submitted via an Accessibility Issue Form. Office of Institutional Equity - ADA / Section 504 Coordinator Storrs / Regionals 241 Glenbrook Road Unit 4175 Storrs, CT 06269-4175 Phone: 860-486-2943 Email: equity@uconn.edu Website: equity.uconn.edu UConn Health 16 Munson Road Farmington, CT 06030-5310 Phone: 860-679-3563 Email: equity@uconn.edu Website: equity.uconn.edu If you are unable to access information on this website or identify an error, please contact the Office of Institutional Equity at 860-486-2943 or equity@uconn.edu. Some content on this website may require the use of a plug-in, such as Adobe Acrobat Viewer or Microsoft Word. If a different plug-in is required, it will be noted. Contact the Office of Institutional Equity at 860-486-2943 or equity@uconn.edu to report a campus accessibility issue. You may also complete an accessibility issue form. © University of Connecticut Disclaimers, Privacy & Copyright Accessibility Webmaster Login A-Z Index