Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU Inclusive Design 8 Workshop Your Course Content and Environment for Inclusion and Student Success Universal Design: Designing an Inclusive Classroom Top 10 Strategies for Designing an Inclusive Classroom Tips and Examples From TU faculty on Universal Design Strategies for Supporting Students with Autism Spectrum Disorders Promoting Inclusion in Communication and Interaction Poster: Be an Ally 63 steps faculty can take to improve students retention Universal Design 8 Workshop Your Course Content and Environment for Inclusion and Student Success Universal Design: Quick Links Universal Design: Online Resources Universal Design: Designing an Inclusive Classroom Universal Design: Core Competencies Poster: Be an Ally Harvey Content Structure and Standards Accessibility in Harvey/Blackboard Faculty Guides 18 Workshop Your Course Content and Environment for Inclusion and Student Success Universal Design: Quick Links Universal Design: Online Resources Universal Design: Designing an Inclusive Classroom Universal Design: Core Competencies Top 10 Strategies for Designing an Inclusive Classroom Tips for Faculty for Transitioning to In-Person Classes Tips and Examples From TU faculty on Universal Design Strategies for Supporting Students with Autism Spectrum Disorders Harvey Content Structure and Standards FAQ’S for Faculty Faculty Top 10 Strategies for Supporting Students with Accommodations Faculty Strategies for Student Success COVID-19 Resources from NCCSD Clearinghouse COVID-19 and managing mental health Checking Online Classes for Accessibility Accessibility in Harvey/Blackboard 63 steps faculty can take to improve students retention Digital Accessibility 5 Writing Accessible Content in MS Word Tips for Creating Accessible Digital Content Checking Online Classes for Accessibility Accessibility Tools for Users Accessibility From Home During COVID-19 Tips for Allies 5 Poster: Be an Ally People-First Language Disability Language Style Guide Disability Etiquette Tips Accessibility Tips and Awareness Student Resources 24 Using the Syllabus Using Study Groups Top 10 Test Prep Strategies Top 10 Strategies for Test Days Top 10 Academic Strategies Tips for Students in Transitioning to In-Person Classes Tips for Online Class Task Management Tips for Online Learning Stay Connected: Self-Advocacy Online Progressive Muscle Relaxation Learning Styles How to work with your professors successfully How to Use a Planner How to Detect Important Information During Lectures Five Notetaking Methods Exam Preparation Timeline Deep-Breathing Exercises Creating a Schedule for Success COVID-19 Resources from NCCSD Clearinghouse Calculating Your GPA Becoming a “planner person” ADHD Notetaking Tips 5-Day Test Prep Plan 3 Reasons to Get a Tutor COVID-19 5 Tips for Students in Transitioning to In-Person Classes Tips for Faculty for Transitioning to In-Person Classes COVID-19 Resources from NCCSD Clearinghouse COVID-19 and managing mental health Accessibility From Home During COVID-19 Home Accessibility Resources COVID-19 Tips for Students in Transitioning to In-Person Classes Tips for Students in Transitioning to In-Person Classes We surveyed TU students and faculty for feedback on how students can successfully transition back to in-person classes after being virtual during the pandemic. Here are their suggestions (bolded are the most heavily endorsed): Above all else, read the syllabus early and often. The syllabus is your map for the class and will answer the majority of questions you have. Read it at the start of your classes and refer to it regularly. There are two key places to monitor and check regularly in Harvey for your classes: Syllabus & Details (left menu) and Course Content (left menu). You should find important dates, deadlines, and assignments in these two areas. The expectation is that classes will be in person. Select classes that are offered virtually if you prefer this. It is not sustainable for classes to be offered with a choice of in person or virtual because this takes a lot of extra time and planning for faculty and the content is not always suited to a particular method. Your faculty are looking forward to visiting with you. Take advantage of instructor office hours and email. Reach out with questions or for help early and often; they are here for you and expect your interaction with them. When possible, meet with them rather than email as your requests could be misunderstood in an email. TU is a special place where It is okay to ask faculty if there is something that could help you. When making a request, use your self-advocacy skills to ask, but remember not to demand things with an entitlement mindset. Explaining why you are making a request and how it will help you can often result in faculty willingness to assist you. Help them understand the benefit to you. Attendance is crucial. In the remote environment, you were perhaps able to attend class at any time you wanted. In person this will not be the case and important learning and interactions happen in class, so you are expected to be in class on time. Establish a routine now. Remember important things like getting enough sleep, eating healthily and regularly, preparing class materials in advance, etc. Work on your focus. Schedule time in your planner to study each day. At home you may have had distractions, been on your phone, or doing other things while listening to lectures. In class, you need to be attentive, turn off devices, and actively participate. If you were a new student last year, seek out peers who attended TU prior to the pandemic. Last year was a very different experience than is typical, so get advice from friends. Send professional and courteous emails to your instructors when you have questions or need help. Address your instructors with a title (such as Professor or Dr.) rather than using their first name. Recognize that with the change back to in person, everyone is going to be extra busy during the transition. Allow your instructors a little time and grace to get back with you and know that it may take a little bit longer to respond than typical. Provide patience to everyone as this time may be stressful all around. Check out other tips for working successfully with your instructors. These tips were prepared by the Accessibility Standards Committee, made up of students, faculty, and staff. Academic Strategies Share This Article : Still stuck? How can we help? How can we help? Name: * Email: * Message: * Updated on August 4, 2021 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT