Skip to main content Resources for: My KC One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Phil and Penny Knight Search Search Site Navigation People Facilities Research Innovation Academics Recruitment Events About Resources for: My KC Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Phil and Penny Knight Campus for Accelerating Scientific Impact Main navigation People Facilities Research Innovation Academics Recruitment Events About Homepage Pushing the Limits Researchers in the Bowerman Sports Science Center, many of whom are playing key roles for the UO in the Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance, are optimizing performance for elite athletes and weekend warriors. Explore How Heal faster. Be healthier. Live better. Buoyed by three new NIH grants totaling nearly $5 million, Knight Campus researchers are merging engineering, science and medicine to improve health. Explore Their Success Machine learning scientist joins Knight Campus Courosh Mehanian brings expertise in computer-aided medical imaging. Meet Courosh The Phil and Penny Knight Campus for Accelerating Scientific Impact is a campus designed to accelerate the cycle of moving discoveries to impacts for the greater good. Rooted in the University of Oregon’s 60-year history of interdisciplinary collaboration, it is training new generations of scientists, forging tighter ties with industry and entrepreneurs, and creating new opportunities for graduate and undergraduate students. The Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance at Oregon Based in the Knight Campus Discover More What's New at the Knight Campus Bioinformatics students head to new internships after record season The Knight Campus Bioinformatics and Genomics Track students are eager to begin their internships this month and put their newly formed skills to the test. Center for Art Research incubator program video now playing Featured artist Colin Ives will be screening AI-created video in the Knight Campus lobby through April 1 Graduate Internship Program inclusion initiative fosters diversity through culture Through a multi-tiered approach, the initiative prioritizes inclusion, respect and a greater understanding of crucial issues around diversity, equity and inclusion MORE KNIGHT CAMPUS NEWS » Knight Campus Updates Follow the amazing work at the Knight Campus by subscribing to our updates and news. Sign Up Now Latest Executive Director Update Phase 2 Updates Sign Up Now Latest Executive Director Update Phase 2 Updates Tweets by UOKnightCampus Follow us: The Knight Campus Strategic Plan The plan lays out key priorities and areas of scientific focus, outlining the ideological foundation of the Knight Campus in detail. View the Strategic Plan Upcoming Events Discovery and Impact Symposium Jun1 Discovery and Impact Symposium Jun 1 Knight Campus Entrepreneurship Speaker Series with Andrés García and Michelle LaPlaca Jul7 Knight Campus Entrepreneurship Speaker Series with Andrés García and Michelle LaPlaca Jul 7 Phil and Penny Knight Campus for Accelerating Scientific Impact QUICK LINKS Center for Translational Biomedical Research Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance at Oregon Sign Up for Knight Campus Updates Give to the Knight Campus Knight Campus 1505 Franklin Boulevard Eugene, OR 97403-6231 Office: Knight Campus Building 1 P: 541-346-2120 accelerate@uoregon.edu Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.