Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU > Accessibility@TU Staff Accessibility@TU Staff ACCESSIBILITY @ TU CONTACT US Schedule an Appointment with a Student Access Advocate Virtual Drop-In Hours: Tuesdays from 2:00 pm – 3:30 pm Abby Boehing Coordinator for Student Access, Pathfinders ProgramBio Amy Culwell Coordinator for Student Access, Testing, and Technology ServicesBio Dave Kobel Director of Student Access Tawny Rigsby, Ph.D. Director of Campus Accessibility and ADA/504 CoordinatorBio Trisha Salas Front End Developer and Digital Accessibility Coordinator × Abby Boehing Coordinator for Student Access, Pathfinders Program My name is Abby and I am so happy to introduce myself to you! My undergraduate degree is in Family and Human Services with a Marketing Minor, and my Master’s is in Social Work. I am a licensed, Oklahoma social worker under supervision for my clinical license. My focus is young adults living with Autism. Working as a helping professional is my life’s work, and I love working with our students at TU. I believe that all students deserve equal access in their educational and social environments, and I am pleased to be an advocate and partner with our students. Close Window × Amy Culwell Coordinator for Student Access, Testing, and Technology Services I have been a member of the TU family for 17 years! I received my Bachelor’s in Accounting from The University of Tulsa. I have operated as a Work-study Student, Administrative Assistant, and currently as Coordinator for Student Access throughout my time at TU. Having experienced both the student and administrative sides of Student Access, student success became my passion. It is my belief that all students can be successful and deserve equal access to do so. It is an honor to be a part of the process. Close Window × Dave Kobel Director of Student Access Close Window × Tawny Rigsby, Ph.D. Director of Campus Accessibility and ADA/504 Coordinator I realized I wanted to work with college students while serving as a Resident Assistant and then Hall Director. Students are an incredibly fun population, and partnering with them as they navigate college and learn how to be successful academically and in life is an amazing purpose that has strongly called me. My bachelor’s degree in English prepared me to think critically and capitalize on written communication in my work, and my master’s degree in Counseling and Student Personnel afforded me internship and practicum opportunities to provide individual and group counseling to college students at the University Counseling Center. I received my Ph.D. in Educational Psychology and Educational Therapy from Oklahoma State University. These experiences helped me better understand student development as well as academic and life skill-building. For five years, I served as the Student Conduct Officer at OSU, which gave me opportunities to help students change behaviors that were not serving them well, and learn about their roles and responsibilities in a community. While working full time, I completed my Ph.D. program, and this gave me a real understanding of the struggles students can face in managing competing priorities. At TU, I had the pleasure of serving as Director of the Center for Student Academic Success and served students through coaching, tutoring, and accessibility/accommodations for 10 years. I have felt especially called to help in ensuring equity and access for all people, and am a certified professional educational therapist (ET/P). In 2018, I was diagnosed with aggressive breast cancer and really experienced the family that is TU. Compassion and empathy guide my work–most everyone you encounter either just finished facing difficulty, is currently facing difficulty, or is about to face difficulty in some way. Community is essential to well being, and colleges are communities that can either support members in thriving, or create atmospheres where people are just surviving. TU is a community that rallies around all its members, and we pride ourselves on being there to cheer when people succeed and also being there when people inevitably face challenge. In my current role in University Compliance, I serve as the University’s subject-matter expert on requirements and compliance with the ADA and Rehabilitation Act, and continue directing efforts for accessibility across campus, determining eligibility for accommodations, and conducting educational programming and initiatives. I am committed to helping and serving wherever I can, and it is a true honor to play a part in supporting people at TU. Close Window × Trisha Salas Front End Developer and Digital Accessibility Coordinator Close Window 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT