Skip to content IT Accessibility Toggle navigation Home For Faculty and Staff For IT Staff and Developers Training Procurement Staff Report a Problem Procurement All IT purchased, or otherwise acquired, by the University must be accessible. Accessibility Reviews for Procurement Purchases over $5,000 Must be submitted through the IT Purchase Compliance process, which initiates accessibility and other necessary product reviews. Purchases under $5,000 and free-to-use products Should consider accessibility in the selection process. If you would like to consult with the IT Accessibility Coordinator during the selection process, email accessibility@ncsu.edu. What You Can Do Provide accessibility information about the product you plan to purchase when you submit your IT Purchase Compliance form. Information about a product’s accessibility can be usually found in the: Voluntary Product Accessibility Template (VPAT) WCAG 2.0 compliance document Initiate communication with the vendor, if accessibility information is not easily located. If the vendor is not familiar with accessibility requirements, refer the vendor to the Vendor Guide for Accessibility. Processing Time An IT Purchase Compliance request submitted without accessibility information may be delayed, as additional information will be needed in order to perform the review. Standard hardware and software used by one or two people usually pass through the process quickly. Access levels in the IT Purchase Compliance process are used to identify user populations and help in the accessibility product review process. Because of this, it is very important that user information is filled out accurately. Equally Effective Alternative Action Plan (EEAAP) EEAAPs are required for Information Communication Technology resource products that do not meet the Section 508 Standards or that would cause an undue burden to meet the Section 508 Standards. More information about EEAAPs can be found on the Equally Effective Alternative Action Plan Information page. Help Email questions to accessibility@ncsu.edu. Resources EEAAP Template (Word) IT Accessibility Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC State University North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011