Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Digital Accessibility Search Training Accessibility Trainings On-Demand Training Videos Resources For Content Creators For Developers For Managers Accessibility Testing Multimedia Accessibility Documents Technology Procurement Accessibility Services and Labs Techniques Disabilities Assistive Technologies Elements Technologies Principles Policies Digital Accessibility Policy Procurement and Development Settlement Caption Requirements FAQs About DAS HOME / RESOURCES / Accessibility for Managers As a manager, you play a critical role in building and supporting a culture of accessibility. Sometimes accessibility is thought of as a liability or a requirement, but there are many benefits to considering accessibility, such as driving innovation, improving the user experience of digital content, and helping reach a wider audience. The following suggested practices will help you prioritize accessibility within your team, leading to more inclusive digital experiences. In this page: Building your team's accessibility knowledge Hiring with accessibility in mind Including accessibility in projects Selecting accessible tools and services Building your team's accessibility knowledge Every member of the team has a role to play when it comes to accessibility. Managers should make sure that team members understand their responsibilities, and that they feel equipped with training and support to deliver accessible products. To help build accessibility knowledge on your team, there are several resources available for members of the Harvard community: Instructor-led accessibility trainings On-demand training videos Digital Accessibility Services (DAS) Office Hours Upcoming Accessibility Trainings 2022 Jun 06 Digital Accessibility Level II: Orientation 11:00am to 11:50am 2022 Jun 07 Creating Accessible PDFs 10:00am to 12:00pm 2022 Jun 09 Web Accessibility for Developers 10:00am All trainings Hiring with accessibility in mind By including accessibility requirements and qualifications into job descriptions, managers set the expectation that accessibility is an important part of individual performance expectation and the team’s culture. For specific roles that are integral to the design and development of digital content, managers can work with recruiters to identify and seek out applicants with accessibility experience and knowledge. To help incorporate accessibility into your hiring process, there are several online resources available: Accessibility Skills Hiring Toolkit by Teach Access Accessibility Interview Questions by Scott O'Hara Including accessibility in projects When managers prioritize accessibility throughout every stage of a project - including planning, development, and design - team members will feel empowered to create inclusive digital products. Project Stages Planning Project Managers are responsible for including accessibility as a project requirement. This includes assigning accessibility roles to team members, and providing sufficient time and resources throughout the project for achieving accessibility goals. Content Content Creators should make sure that the content is well structured, uses clear and simple language, and can be conveyed in multiple formats for assistive technology. Design Web and UX Designers should be knowledgeable about their users’ needs, and apply universal design principles to ensure an inclusive experience. Designers can incorporate accessibility into design files and style guides, which will help define accessibility requirements for the development team. Development Developers should be knowledgeable of accessibility best practices, and should include accessibility considerations throughout the development process. The development team should perform testing on individual components as they are developed, as well as on combined page layouts and templates. Quality Assurance (QA) An accessibility testing plan should include a combination of both automated and manual testing, with a defined scope that prioritizes high traffic content, critical user flows, and site components. QA Testers should document accessibility issues and help prioritize them for the rest of the team. Maintenance Accessibility testing is an ongoing process that continues after a project has launched. Team members should conduct periodic checks to ensure that no new barriers have been introduced, and make updates that might be required to address reported issues, as well as to meet evolving accessibility standards. Selecting accessible tools and services Any tools and services selected by the team should be vetted for accessibility. If considered early, product owners may have more options than if they wait to address accessibility with a previously selected vendor. When selecting vendors, look for companies with a track record of universal design practices, and incorporate accessibility requirements into bids and contracts. To help build accessibility into your procurement process, there are several resources available including Harvard’s Procurement and Development Policy: Evaluating a potential vendor for accessibility Adding an accessibility rider to the vendor contract Developing an accessibility roadmap with the vendor Vetting a website vendor for accessibility Siteimprove Usability script Custom JS jquery section expander Site-wide CSS Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement