Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU > Stories > Thriving with help from Student Access – one student’s story Thriving with help from Student Access – one student’s story August 17, 2020 Making the transition from high school to college, and battling all of the uncertainties, can be tough and challenging for most students – especially those navigating circumstances that are able to hinder and influence academic performance. There is so much pressure entering your college education, and having those sorts of challenges certainly adds to the pressure. Personally, I struggled with anxiety and frequent panic attacks. Because of this, getting through school, let alone doing well in school, was scary and intense enough of a challenge. Things as simple as leaving my dorm, attending class, or taking an exam were extremely difficult for me. I feared the new environment and what I would do if I had an attack – the situation wasn’t functional nor did it allow me to thrive and succeed according to my goals. Finding help with Student Access Around this time, I was exposed to Student Access (formerly CSAS) and discovered the resources and accommodations that were there for students in my situation. As I’m sure so many can relate to, it can feel tough or even embarrassing to open up about our challenges and ask for help. I was so excited to find a space that encouraged students to seek help so that we are able to thrive and succeed in college – not just survive it! There is no shame in seeking or receiving accommodations. I found that they give me, and so many others, the opportunity to perform at our best. I no longer feel like I have to set my goals under the limitations of my anxiety, and that has been the most liberating and empowering thing! Student Access is such an accepting and respectful space that does everything possible to advocate for and assist students — they will work to provide you the tools to better navigate your individual challenges and reach your personal goals. Because of this, I have been able to experience so much fulfillment and so many personal victories that I never thought possible. I’m able to balance my academics with club involvement, research, and other extracurriculars that I really enjoy. I truly feel like I’ve gotten to have a genuine college experience and the ability to pursue my aspirations to the fullest! Stories 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT