Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU University Disability Resources COVID-19 Resources LDC Portal FAQs Accommodation Statement About Search General Inquiries Student Accommodations Workplace Accommodations Effective Communication Ergonomics Housing Service and Assistance Animals Parking & Transportation Grievance Procedure Digital Access Academic Alternative Format Assistive Tech Lending Captioning Inclusive Content Creation and Delivery Innovation Pilot Projects Usability Testing Campus Access Campus Map Getting Around Construction and Renovation Event Planning At the Event Emergency Planning Publicity Materials Space Selection Tools & Resources Newsletter Student Coordinators Vendors & Service Providers Ombuds Professional Organizations Frequently Asked Questions HOME / GENERAL INQUIRIES / Housing RESIDENTIAL STUDENT HOUSING - STUDENTS Students who wish to request accommodations should contact their school's Local Student Disability Coordinator (LDC) to initiate the reasonable accommodation exploration process. Many LDCs have resources and forms posted on their website to begin the process. Please see the LDC List to find your School’s contact person or office. HARVARD UNIVERSITY HOUSING – STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF Faculty, Staff, and Graduate Students who live in Harvard University Housing and wish to request accessible housing accommodations should follow the appropriate policies & procedures listed below (please note that exceptions to these policies are granted only on the basic of approved requests for disability-related accommodations). University Disability Resources will partner with Harvard University Housing to explore requests for housing accommodations. To initiate the process please complete and submit the Housing Reasonable Accomodation Request Form. The requestor must also submit medical documentation from a qualified health care provider. Medical documentation must identify functional limitations that support the requested accommodation is necessary to allow equal opportunity to participate in the housing program. Please note, for requests specifically related to Assistance Animals in Housing, the Assistance Animal Request Form may be shared with health care providers and submitted to our office. If unable to utilize the digital forms above, then these documents may also be sent to our UDR email or via fax at (617) 495-8520. For an overview of Harvard University Housing information see: Harvard University Housing (HUH): Prospective Residents with Disabilities VISITORS Hotel Accommodations: Many Metro Boston and Cambridge Hotels offer accessible lodging. The Harvard Square Business Association (HSBA) maintains a List of Harvard Square Hotels. Family and friends needing accessible lodging are strongly encouraged to reserve accessible hotel rooms as far in advance as possible. Please note HSBA's harvardsquare.com is not Harvard affiliated and Harvard is not responsible for availability, accuracy, or changes in service. General Inquiries Student Accommodations Workplace Accommodations Effective Communication Ergonomics Housing Service and Assistance Animals Parking & Transportation Grievance Procedure Contact Us Harvard University Disability Resources Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Suite 900. | 617-495-1859 | TTY: 617-496-0466 | Fax: 617-495-8520 | disabilityresources@harvard.edu| Directions to our office Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement