Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Accessibility Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift You are here Home » Built Environment Accessibility Built Environment Accessibility Best Practices Oregon State University has adopted "Best Practices" for the design and construction of our facilities. These best practices have been incorporated into the Capital Planning and Development Construction Standards (updated April, 2015) that every project is required to follow. Some accessibility standards are found throughout the document, but most specifically in two sections; Section 01 10 02: Accessibility Best Practices for OSU, and Section 12 56 33: Accessible Classroom Furniture. The Accessibility Best Practices for OSU follow current building code practice for creating code documents such as those followed by the 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design. The materials provided below are not intended to and do not create rights independent of those under existing legal requirements; rather, they are intended as a guide to assist the University in complying with existing legal obligations and in achieving the University's goal of creating accessible, inclusive educational and work environments. Section 01 10 02: Accessibility Best Practices for OSU The links below provide a small outline that will take you to sections of the Best Practices related to accessibility of our built environments. Part 1: Purpose Part 2: Design Process and Review Requirements Accessibility Considerations and Review in Project Design Accessible Design Workshop Design Review and Recommendations by AUAC Third-Party Review Part 3: Design Elements Building Blocks Exterior Accessible Routes General Site Elements Interior Accessible Routes General Building Elements Plumbing Elements and Facilities Communication Elements and Features Special Rooms, Spaces, and Elements Part 1: Purpose In the pursuit of becoming a fully accessible campus, Oregon State University expects all Consultants and service providers to design to 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design and the latest adopted edition of the Oregon Structural Specialty Code (OSSC) and to exhibit a commitment to employing Universal Design Principles in their service and product delivery. Consultants will engage with project representatives on how Universal Design Principles will enhance accessibility that will meet a variety of needs and create a campus that is accessible to everyone. Designers will ensure that the principles of Universal Design are considered to the project representative’s satisfaction. Part 2: Design Process and Review Requirements 1. Accessibility Considerations and Review in Project Design The Accessible University Advisory Committee (AUAC) is charged with developing and overseeing the implementation of a comprehensive plan for improving the accessibility of OSU’s built environment. AUAC shall be consulted if any of the following conditions exist: Accessibility Best Practices for OSU cannot be strictly adhered to because of conditions beyond the control of the designer. An element of the project requires further interpretation of the Accessibility Best Practices for OSU or further discussion to determine the most appropriate solution. Adhering to the Accessibility Best Practices for OSU is in conflict with the requirements of the Corvallis Historic Resources Commission, if applicable. The designer believes an alternative solution meets or exceeds the functionality of the Accessibility Best Practices for OSU. An element of the project will impact accessibility and the Accessibility Best Practices for OSU do not address the issue. Accessible Design Workshop For all New Construction and Major Renovation projects, design teams (including architect/engineer, consultants, Capital Planning and Development Project Manager and Construction Manager assigned to the project, and project “owner”) will engage in an “Accessibility Design Workshop” to identify issues related to the specific project and to explore innovative approaches to accessibility. The following should be discussed: Specific accessibility issues related to the projects. Opportunities for innovative solutions to provide a fully accessible facility. How accessibility issues will be addressed and how the innovative solutions discussed above can be integrated into the design. Design Review and Recommendations by AUAC All new construction and renovation projects shall be presented to AUAC in the form of a “facilitated review” during the final stages of Schematic Design and in the Construction Document stage. The review will be facilitated by the Capital Planning and Development Project Manager (and design professional, at the discretion of the OSU Project Manager) and will include the following: Incorporation of the requirements of the Accessibility Best Practices for OSU. Compliance with the Oregon Structural Specialty Code, 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design, and other applicable codes related to accessibility. Incorporation of Universal Design principles. Incorporation of concepts and design solutions resulting from Accessible Design Workshop. Third-Party Review A third-party accessibility review shall be conducted on all new building construction and major renovation projects. A consultant shall be contracted to provide the following services: Review drawings and specifications for accessibility at the schematic design phase. Review drawings and specifications at the construction document phase for accessibility. After each of the two phases of review, the consultant will provide OSU and the design team with input related to elements depicted on the documents that appear to be out of compliance and provide suggestions on how to improve accessibility. As a project approaches substantial completion, the consultant shall perform an on-site accessibility evaluation of the project to verify that all accessibility-related elements have been constructed as per the drawings and specifications. Any elements that are non-compliant shall be added to the punchlist of items to be corrected. Part 3: Design Elements 1. Applicable Code, Guidelines and Standards All design work shall comply with all applicable sections of the following (or latest upgrades, as applicable): 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design 2014 Edition of the Oregon Structural Specialty Code (OSSC) ICC/ANSI A117.1 – 2009 Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities (Referenced by OSCC) Proposed Accessibility Guidelines for Pedestrian Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way 2011 Oregon Elevator Specialty Code ASME A17.1 – 2010 Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators BHMA A156.10-2011 American National Standard for Power Operated Pedestrian Doors BHMA A156.19-2013 American National Standard for Power Assist and Low Energy Power Operated Doors NFPA 72: National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code - 2013 ORS 447.233 - Oregon Transportation Commission Standards for Accessible Parking Spaces (April, 2012) ORS 447.220 - It is the purpose of (state law) to make affected buildings, including but not limited to, commercial facilities, public accommodations, private entities, private membership clubs and churches in the state accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities, as provided in the Americans with Disabilities Act, and to make covered multifamily dwellings in the state accessible to and usable by all persons with disabilities, as provided in the Fair Housing Act. 2. References The Principles of Universal Design – The Center for Accessible Design (NC State University – 1997) Access for Everyone – Dr. Arvid E Osterberg (Iowa State University - 2010) Signs and the ABA/ADA – Sharon Toji (2010) Equal Access: Universal Design of Physical Spaces – Sheryl Burgstahler, Ph.D. (University of Washington – 2009) Campus Pedestrian Facilities: ADA Assessment and Survey (includes recommended performance standards (p.29-30.)-SZS Consulting Group 3. Alterations to Existing Buildings All of the accessibility construction standards, contained herein, shall apply to existing buildings undergoing alterations unless technically infeasible. The technical infeasibility of alterations shall be jointly determined by OSU’s Project Manager and the designer in consultation with the Office of Equity and Inclusion. The Office of Equity and Inclusion has final authority in determining “technical infeasibility.” At a minimum, the alterations must include an accessible route connecting all functional areas in the building to nearby accessible parking and pedestrian routes. At least 25% of the alteration cost must be spent on accessibility improvements. (ADA requires 20%, but OSSC requires 25%) Exceptions (as per 014 OSSC) Alterations limited solely to windows, hardware, operation controls, electrical outlets, and signs Alterations limited solely to mechanical systems, electrical systems, fire protection systems or hazardous material abatement Alterations undertaken solely by the purpose of increasing accessibility. The accessibility improvements shall be prioritized as follows: Parking Accessible entrance Accessible route to the altered area At least one accessible restroom for each sex or a single unisex restroom Accessible telephones Accessible drinking fountains Additional accessible elements 4. Buildings within the OSU Historic District All of the accessibility construction standards shall apply to any buildings located within the Oregon State University Historic District undergoing alterations, unless technically infeasible. This is in addition to the requirements listed above in the section Alterations to Existing Buildings. Where compliance would threaten or destroy the historic significance of a building as determined by the City of Corvallis Historic Resources Commission, alternative solutions must be implemented to ensure accessibility. At least one accessible entrance from an accessible route shall be provided. The preference is to make at least the main entrance accessible, when all public entrances cannot be made accessible. Any decision to make less than 60% of the entrances accessible during major renovation must be approved by the City of Corvallis Historic Resources Commission, and discussed with the Office of Equity and Inclusion. Alternative solutions shall be provided to the OSU’s satisfaction. Decisions on alternative solutions must include and be approved by the Office of Equity and Inclusion. Where the alteration to existing restrooms would adversely affect the historic significance of a building, at least one fully accessible family or assisted-use toilet room shall be provided. 5. Design Specifications The following design specifications should be incorporated into all new construction. In alteration work, these specifications should be utilized to the greatest extent feasible. Building Blocks Floor and Ground Surfaces Use hard or resilient flooring in high traffic, general university areas such as lobbies, corridors, restrooms, and other common areas along all accessible routes. Carpet should only be used in areas where it isn’t a part of an accessible route or in areas where acoustics is a concern, such as in residence halls. Where carpet is used, use, only short-pile carpet. At entrances to buildings, provide recessed walk-off mats that are flush with the adjoining floor surface. Pavers or stamped concrete should not be used on accessible paths of travel. Pavers may be used in other areas, but must be set in mortar on a concrete slab and have flush joints. Stamped concrete, if used, should not have joints larger than 1/8” wide. Turning Space Provide elongated circle minimum turning space (60” x 78”). (ADA allows 60” radius or T-shaped turning area) Only use 60 radius and T-shaped turning space in alterations where space for the elongated circle is not available. Floor and Ground Clear Areas Provide clear floor areas with minimum dimensions of 36” x 54”. (ADA allows 30” x 48”) Knee Space Provide 30” minimum knee space under tables and counters, wherever possible. It is acknowledged that this amount of knee space is not available with lavatories due to lavatory bowls and plumbing. (ADA allows 27” minimum.) Reach Ranges Provide all controls for building occupants between 18” and 43” above the floor. (ADA allows 15” to 48” or up to 44” over counters up to 25” deep.) Controls and objects shall be placed at least 18 inches away from inside corners of walls to allow for wheelchair access. Locate outlets and other objects that are normally closer to the floor at a consistent height of 18 inches above the floor measured to the centerline of the outlet or object. (ADA allows outlets to be located as low as 15”.) Operable Parts Operable parts intended for public use, such as automatic door operators, emergency call boxes, switches, or controls, shall be designed with a minimum 36" x 54" clear floor or ground space having a maximum slope of 1.5% (1:66.7) in any direction. Exterior Accessible Routes Paths of Travel All projects must connect to the OSU Accessible Travel Grid, an integrated pathway connecting every building with at least one accessible route. OSU Project Managers can provide this map. All projects must consider connections from the project site to accessible parking as well as to accessible routes of travel that connect the building to the rest of campus to ensure that we are creating an integrated campus. When an accessible route of travel needs to be closed for construction purposes, the designer shall direct the contractor to either provide an alternate accessible route or provide signage that directs people to the nearest accessible route. Minimum walkway width: 60” (ADA minimum is 36”.) See Street Standards in Section 34 00 00 Transportation of OSU Construction Standards on required widths of walks. Design accessible exterior routes without ramps whenever possible. Whenever possible, locate items such as cleanouts, vault covers, grates, and similar items outside of the path of travel. When these items are located within the path of travel, they shall be flush with the surrounding walk. For exterior routes, choose alternatives to ramps (such as sidewalks and proper grading) to achieve gentler slopes. Maximum running slope: 1:25 (4%). The ADA allows up to 1:20 or just over 5%. Note: 1:25 (4%) slopes cannot always be met due to existing conditions and grades. Grades up to 1:20 (5%) are allowable where existing conditions prevent lesser grades. Where design slopes on walks approach 1:20 (5%) due to existing conditions, consider the incorporation of a ramp or ramps to provide reduced slopes along the majority of the route. Ramps may be preferred over long stretches of walks at maximum allowable grade. Maximum cross slope: 1.5% (1:66.7). ADA allows 1:48 or just over 2%. This is to ensure that, with construction tolerances, the resulting slope will be less than 2% (1:48). The specifications or drawing notes should clearly state that any pathways or sidewalks that are constructed with slopes exceeding 2% (1:48) cross slope or 1:20 (5%) running slope shall be replaced at the contractor's expense. Determinations of non-compliant slopes will be at the discretion of OSU Authorized Representative, measured using a two (2)-foot digital level. Along open walkways, provide minimum of 12” of landscaping along edges of walks that are flush with walk or provide edge protection such as a curb. This does not apply to the street side of curbside sidewalks. Bicycle parking should not be located within paths of travel. (See Section 34 00 00). Exterior Ramps When a ramp is necessary, design the ramp slope between 1:20 (5%) and 1:16 (6.25%). Strive for the least amount of slope that is feasible. (ADA allows 1:12 (8.33%) maximum slope for ramps.) Individual sections of ramps shall not be longer than 25 ft. without a level landing Install handrails with centerline of handrail at 36” above ramp surface. (ADA allows 34” – 38”.) Also, include handrail at 26” in locations used primarily or frequently by children Avoid curved ramps Where possible, provide a minimum 60” x 72“ area at top, bottom, and intermediate landings The cross slope of ramps and landings shall be 1.5% (1:66.7) maximum. ADA allows up to 2% (1:48). This is to ensure that, with construction tolerances, the resulting slope will be less than 2% (1:48) The specifications or drawing notes should clearly state that any ramp sections that are constructed with slopes exceeding 2% (1:48) cross slope or 8.33% (1:12) running slope shall be replaced at the contractor's expense. Determinations of non-complaint slopes will be at teh discretion of OSU Authorized Representative, measured using a 2-foot digital level Provide continuous handrails around the perimeter of intermediate landings The minimum widths required for all ramps and landings are to be the dimensions between handrails When using steel pipe or tubing, provide minimum wall thickness of .140” Round handrails are preferred Exterior Stairs Do not design a step with a single riser. Ensure that the leading edge of treads contrasts with the rest of the treads to increase visibility and safety where appropriate. Provide contrasting strip on the leading edge of the tread that extends a total of 2” back from the leading edge of each tread. Integral, colored, cast-in-place stair nosings are preferred. Federal yellow or white. Slope treads of exterior stairs 1.5% (1:66.7) slope toward the leading edge of the treads. This is to ensure that, with construction tolerances, the resulting slope will be less than 2% (1:48). Install handrails with centerline of handrail at 36” above nosings. (ADA allows 34” – 38”.) Also, include handrail at 26” in locations used primarily or frequently by children. OSSC requires that there be handrails within 30” of any portion of a stair that is determined to be an egress route. On exterior stairs that are not part of an egress route, provide intermediate handrail(s) evenly spaced in increments not exceeding 8 ft. Provide continuous handrails around the perimeter of intermediate landings. When using steel pipe or tubing, provide minimum wall thickness of .140”. Round handrails are preferred. Provide minimum 12" horizontal handrail extension at bottom of stairs providing the extension does not protrude into an accessible route. General Site Elements Parking See Oregon Transportation Commission’s (OTC) Standards for Accessible Parking Places. The following shall be supplemental to the OTC standards. Where conflicts exist, the following standards shall prevail. Parking stalls shall be designed to be a minimum 9 ft. wide by 18’-6” deep. (ADA allows 8 ft. wide stalls.) Standard access aisles shall be a minimum of 6 ft. wide (ADA allows minimum of 5 ft.) Access aisles adjacent to van accessible or wheelchair accessible spaces shall be a minimum of 8 ft. wide (ADA allows 8 ft. access aisle with 8 ft. wide parking space or 5 ft. access aisle with 11 ft. wide parking space; OSSC requires minimum of 17 ft. overall.) Both parking spaces and access aisles should be designed with a maximum slope of 1.5% (1:66.7) in any direction. This is to ensure that, with construction tolerances, the resulting spaces and access aisles will be less than 2% (1:48) and still provide enough slope for drainage. The specifications or drawing notes should clearly state that any accessible parking spaces or access aisle slopes that exceed 2% (1:48) shall be replaced at the contractor’s expense. Determinations of non-compliant slopes will be at the discretion of OSU, measured using a 2-foot digital level. All accessible parking spaces and access aisles shall be constructed with concrete to allow for better control of slopes during construction. Parking spaces should be designed to avoid the use of wheel stops, where feasible. Wheel stops can be a tripping hazard. Adjoining walks should be designed to be wide enough so that vehicles overhanging the walk do not impede the accessible route. Where adjoining walks are less than 8 ft. wide, wheel stops should be used to ensure maneuvering clearance is maintained. Curb ramps serving accessible parking spaces shall not receive detectable warnings. Accessible routes from parking access aisles should not cross behind vehicles or go into vehicular traffic. In those cases where it is not technically feasible or reasonable to separate access route from vehicular traffic, then the accessible routes shall be clearly marked as an accessible pedestrian crossings. Accessible parking signage should not be located within a pedestrian way unless location elsewhere would place the sign too far from the accessible parking space. When it becomes necessary to install an accessible parking sign in a pedestrian way, the bottom of the sign should be at 84”. Parking meters: coin slots and credit card swipes for accessible parking spaces or pay stations that serve accessible parking spaces shall be located at a height between 24" and 43”. Electric Vehicle Charging Stations: An accessible electronic vehicle charging station should have all controls at a height between 24" and 43". At least one, but no less than one in each five electric vehicle charging stations in a grouping, shall be accessible. Accessible Parallel Parking Spaces (Passenger Loading Zones, similar) Accessible parallel parking spaces are not the preferred type of accessible parking space, but may be the only option for providing accessible parking near a facility. When provided, provide 8 ft. wide by 24 ft. long parking space with a 5 ft. wide access aisle, 8 ft. wide access aisle if possible for van access. Provide accessible parking signage adjacent to the parking space from 4 ft. behind the front of the parking space, angled toward the street. Curb Ramps Provide curb ramps where accessible routes cross curbs and where blended transitions are not provided. Unless limited by existing conditions, provide maximum slope of 1:14 (7.14%) on ramp and flared surfaces. Provide minimum 48" x 48" landing at sidewalk at top of curb ramp. Maximum slope on landings to be 1.5% (1:66.7). Do not install diagonal curb ramps. Maximum gutter counter slope shall be designed at 4.5% (1:22.2). This is to ensure that, with construction tolerances, the resulting gutter counter slope does not exceed 5% (1:20). Minimize the slope at the landing at bottom of the curb ramp to the greatest extent possible. Consider going to a blended transition at intersections where the crown of the existing street creates excessive slope at the gutter line. Do not paint curb ramp surfaces. Provide safety yellow detectable warning on all curb ramps that lead to a vehicular crossing. In general, driveways are excluded unless it is determined that the anticipated volume of traffic entering or exiting a driveway warrants detectable warning. When new curb ramps are installed as part of a project, existing, non-compliant curb ramps shall be replaced on the opposite side of the street, as applicable. Driveways Driveways that cross sidewalks shall be designed such that: The sidewalk at the top of the sloped driveway has a maximum cross slope of 1.5% (1:66.7) providing a continuous clear pedestrian access route. An option for a narrow curb-side sidewalk, although less desirable, would be to provide sloped 1:!4 (7.14%) ramps along the sidewalk on either side of the driveway (so the sidewalk is closer to street grade) and slope the driveway up beyond the sidewalk. The sidewalk portion should have a maximum 1.5" (1:66.7) cross slope. (See Diagram 01 10 02A at the end of the Section). In general, driveways shall not receive detectable warnings. At driveways that have high traffic volumes and driveways to large parking lots, detectable warning may be warranted. The office of Equity and Inclusion shall be consulted to make determination as to whether or not a driveway is considered high volume. Site Furnishings Where benches are provided, provide at least one fully accessible bench in each grouping of benches. Where multiple benches are provided, provide at least one accessible bench for each five benches in a grouping or portion thereof. Provide companion seating adjacent to a minimum of 50% of all benches. Where picnic tables are provided, provide at least one accessible picnic table in each grouping of picnic tables. Where multiple picnic tables are provided, provide at least one accessible picnic table for each five picnic tables in a grouping or portion thereof. Site Furnishings Where benches are provided, provide at least one fully accessible bench in each grouping of benches. Where multiple benches are provided, provide at least one accessible bench for each five benches in a grouping or portion thereof. Provide companion seating adjacent to a minimum of 50% of all benches. Where picnic tables are provided, provide at least one accessible picnic table in each grouping of picnic tables. Where multiple picnic tables are provided, provide at least one accessible picnic table for each five picnic tables in a grouping or portion thereof. Loading Docks and Service Yards Whenever feasible, do not design loading docks and service yards where vehicles will encroach onto a sidewalk or pathway. This, though temporary, will cause someone with a disability to backtrack. Where it is not feasible to avoid encroachment onto a sidewalk or pathway, ensure that another pathway in close proximity exists to get around the vehicle, and ensure that it is easily findable. Interior Accessible Routes Accessible Routes Minimum width: 60” (ADA minimum is 36”.) Design accessible routes without ramps whenever possible. Elevators are preferred over ramps wherever level changes greater than three vertical feet are necessary. Avoid the use of vertical platform lifts in new construction. In existing buildings, vertical platform lifts may be an option for making an area accessible, but should always be the last resort. Ensure that the lighting levels on ramps and stairs are at least equivalent to the lighting levels in adjacent areas. Interior Ramps When a ramp is necessary, design the ramp slope between 1:20 (4%) and 1:16 (6.25%). ADA allows 1:12 (8.33%) maximum slope for ramps. Install handrails at 36” above ramp surface. (ADA allows 34” – 38”) Also, include handrail at 26” in locations used primarily or frequently by children. Avoid curved ramps. Where possible, provide a minimum 60” x 72“ area at top, bottom, and intermediate landings. Provide continuous handrails around the perimeter of landings. When using steel pipe or tubing, provide minimum wall thickness of .140”. Round handrails are preferred. Interior Stairs Do not design a step with a single riser. Ensure that the leading edge of treads contrasts with the rest of the treads to increase visibility and safety where appropriate. Provide contrasting strip on the leading edge of the tread that extends a total of 2” back from the leading edge of each tread. Install handrails with centerline of handrail at 36” above stair nosings. (ADA allows 34” – 38”.) Also, include handrail at 26” in locations used primarily or frequently by children. OSSC requires that there be handrails within 30” of any portion of a stair that is determined to be an egress route. On stairs that are not part of an egress route, provide intermediate handrail(s) evenly spaced in increments not exceeding 8 feet. Provide 12” horizontal handrail extension at the bottom of stairs providing the extension does not protrude into an accessible route. Provide continuous handrails around the perimeter of landings. When using steel pipe or tubing, provide minimum wall thickness of .140”. Round handrails are preferred. Elevators Provide hall call buttons that fully illuminate and are bright and are easy to recognize when activated. Use flat‐surfaced, raised buttons because they are easier to activate than convex buttons. Hall call buttons shall be located with the down button centered at a height of 35” above the floor. The up button shall not be located more than 43” above the floor (ADA allows a range of 15” to 48”; State Elevator Code allows a range of 35” to 48”) All car controls and emergency buttons (inside elevator) shall be located so that the lowest button is centered at a height of 35” and the highest buttons is centered at a height of 48” or less. (The State Elevator Code requires all buttons to be located between the height of 35” and 48”.) In public elevators serving high-use buildings, install two sets of buttons, one with the highest buttons located at 48” and the second set with the lowest buttons located at 33”. The lower set of buttons shall be mounted with the longest dimension horizontal. The designer, OSU Project Manager, and Office of Equity and Inclusion, in consultation with AUAC, during the project review process described in Part 2 above, shall determine whether or not a building would be considered “high-use”, on a case-by-case basis. Provide a handrail on every wall of elevator cabs except those walls that have either doors or elevator controls. The handrails should be located at a height of 32”. In new construction, provide at least one elevator cab that can accommodate an ambulance stretcher (84” long minimum) In buildings that have an emergency generator, this elevator should be tied into the emergency system. See Section 14 20 00 of the OSU Construction Standards for additional elevator requirements. General Building Elements General Design When designing rooms and spaces, include furnishings, trash receptacles, and other movable objects in the design drawings to make sure these items will not encroach on accessible routes, turning spaces and required clear floor spaces. The design should incorporate space for these items. Building Ingress and Egress Where technically feasible, all public access points to a new building or major remodel/renovation should be made accessible. In those cases where at least 60 percent of all public entrances cannot be made accessible due to technical infeasibility, the Office of Equity and Inclusion will be contacted and review the design. The Office of Equity and Inclusion has final authority in determining "technical infeasibility." Provide clear means of egress from all areas of a building. Access to Public Areas In new construction and major renovation work, all public areas must be made accessible including multi-leveled classrooms, sunken areas, loggias, raised platforms, and mezzanines. Doors and Door Openers Provide automatic door operators on all primary entrances to a building. Install infrared sensors, push button controls, proximity card readers and other door control devices at a height of 36”. Provide a clear floor space at these door control devices that is level and located outside the swing of the door. Do not install doors that are narrower than 36” wide. (ADA requires a minimum 32” clear.) Avoid doors that swing out into corridors or accessible routes of travel. Exceptions include classroom and other spaces that are required to open outward for emergency egress and electrical, telecom, mechanical rooms that are used infrequently. Doors that are required to open out into corridors or public spaces should be designed within alcoves when feasible. Install magnetic hold open devices or high quality automatic door openers on internal doors and fire doors in corridors, and other areas accessible entrances and along accessible routes within buildings. The preferred height for handles, pulls, latches, locks, and other operable parts on accessible doors is 39 inches above the floor. Windows Provide adequate clear floor space at any operable window so that a person can approach and open the windows. Furnishings Where seating, benches, tables and other furnishings are provided, provide a minimum of one accessible unit for every five units or portion thereof. Plumbing Elements and Facilities Restrooms and Toilet Rooms In new construction and major renovation, all restrooms shall be designed to be fully accessible. All restrooms shall be designed either without doors or have automatic door operators. (See Section 08 71 00 Door Hardware.) In addition to the required restrooms per applicable building code requirements, at least one accessible family or assisted use restroom shall be provided. If only one restroom is provided, then it shall be located on the first floor of the building. All gender inclusive restrooms (sometimes referred to as family, assisted-use, or single-user restrooms) shall be provided with a Camden entry system. (See OSU Construction Standards Section 08 71 00 Door Hardware.) In restrooms that include two or more toilets, provide at least one wheelchair accessible stall and one ambulatory accessible stall. In larger public restrooms containing six or more toilets, provide one wheelchair accessible stall and one ambulatory accessible stall for each six toilet stalls or portion thereof. Provide solid loop toilet seats on accessible toilets, no open front seats. Provide 48 inches minimum clearance between stall doors and any wall or obstruction. (ADA allows 42” for latch side approach.) Install automatic flush valves. Exception: Where dual-flush valves are used, lever controls are acceptable, but must be located in an accessible location. Install toilets so seat height is at 18” (ADA allows 17” – 19”) and centerline of toilet is 17” from wall (ADA allows 16” – 18”). Install grab bars with centerline of grab bar at 34” height. (ADA allows 33” – 36”.) Install vertical grab bar as per ICC A117.1 (new requirement). Lavatories In new construction, make all lavatories accessible. Install automatic faucet controls. Provide tempered water (120 degrees maximum). Urinals Install automatic flush valves. Where urinal partitions exceed 24" in length, provide 36" minimum width clear at urinal. Showers Install roll-in showers that are 42” x 60” minimum. (ADA allows 30” x 60”.) Provide a clear floor space of 36” x 60” minimum outside of transfer shower stalls and 42” x 60” minimum at roll-in shower stalls. (ADA allows 36” x 48” and 30” x 60”, respectively.) Install shower seats at 18” height. (ADA allows 17” to 19”.) Install shower controls at 43” (ADA allows 38” to 48”.) Mount grab bars at 34” (ADA allows 33” to 36”.) Locker Rooms Provide accessible lockers on accessible route. Accessible lockers should be located close to entrance to locker room and near showers. Accessible lockers should be located within 18” to 43” reach range and be furnished with lever handles. All locker rooms shall be equipped with an accessible bench. Toilet Accessories Mount toilet paper dispensers below grab bars at 29” and out from the front edge of the toilet centered a distance of 8 inches. (ADA allows 7” – 9”.) Mount toilet seat cover dispenser on opposite wall or partition from side grab bar. The opening should be at a maximum height of 43”. Mount fixtures (including hand dryers, paper towel holders, and soap dispensers) with controls at 43”. (ADA allows up to 48”) Locate paper towel dispensers and hand dryers in locations that are not within an accessible route of travel. Consider using a recessed unit that does not protrude from the wall more than 4”. (The OSU standard paper towel dispenser protrudes out from the wall approximately 9 inches and does not comply with ADA requirements if installed with open space below.) The same applies to hand dryers. If provided, install baby changing table so that the front edge is at 34” above the floor. Mount mirrors with bottom edge no higher than 38” above the floor (ADA allows maximum of 40”.) Provide full height mirrors, where possible. Drinking Fountains Install dual-height accessible drinking fountains or water coolers near lecture halls, auditoriums and other high-use areas. (Option: two separate units.) Provide water bottle fillers on the lower unit. Provide alcoves for drinking fountains. Wheelchair accessible drinking fountains typically extend out from walls. This creates a potential protrusion hazard. Communication Elements and features Parking Signage See Sect. 01 10 02 - Design Specification for accessible parking signage. Exterior Signage When all entrances are not accessible, provide signage that directs people to the accessible entrances. Accessible entrances shall have the International Symbol of Accessibility (ISA) signage installed. Interior Signage Provide room numbers on all rooms in both raised text and Braille. In addition, provide room names in both raised text and Braille at all permanent rooms (where the name of the room is not expected to change). Visual and tactile signage indicating the floor level should be provided at all stairwells. Provide the International Symbol of Accessibility on all restroom signage. (OSSC does not require the International Symbol of Accessibility if all restrooms are accessible.) Provide Grade 2 Braille on all signage required to have Braille. This is an abbreviated form of Braille. The base of all raised text and Braille is to be located between a height of 48” and 60” (New ADA requirement). Where pictograms are used, raised text and Braille should be located below the pictogram. All doors with automatic door operators should have signage on the door indicating that it is an automatic door. The signage should be on both sides of the door. Tactile Exit Signs - Provide tactile exit signs wherever visual exit signs are required. The tactile exit signs should be located adjacent to the latch side of doors or openings at a height between 48" and 60". Exit signs shall be provided as follows: "EXIT" where exit signs lead to a safe exterior space. "EXIT STAIR DOWN (or UP)" where exit signs lead to stairs leading to an exit. "EXIT RAMP DOWN (or UP)" where exit signs lead to ramps leading to an exit. "EXIT ROUTE" at locations where lit exit signs direct a person to an exit but not directly to a safe exterior space. Fire Alarm Systems Fire alarm strobes shall be located such that no two strobes are visible from the same location. If due to Fire Code requirements, fire alarm strobes need to be located such that two or more strobes are visible from the same location, extra precaution should be taken to ensure that the strobes are perfectly synchronized. Assistive Listening Systems Where sound systems are installed, assistive listening devices shall be installed as part of the system. At least 25%, but no fewer than 2 receivers shall be hearing aid compatible. The assistive listening system shall be as specified by the OSU Office of Academic Technologies - Classroom Technologies, and Disability Access Services. Special Rooms, Spaces, and Elements Classrooms Design classrooms without ramps or lifts, whenever feasible. The slope of walking surfaces shall not exceed 1:20. If elevated stages are provided, they shall be on an accessible route internal to the classroom. Provide a minimum 42” clearance between aisles that lead to accessible seating. Wheelchair accessible spaces should be adjacent to an accessible route. A clear line of sight to the instructor and media shall be provided at wheelchair accessible spaces. In classrooms with occupancy of 100 or more, wheelchair and accessible seating should be dispersed to provide a variety of viewing angles. Where fixed furniture is installed, wheelchair accessible seating shall be dispersed to the top, middle, and bottom of the classroom. All accessible spaces and furniture shall be provided with signage indicating that the space is reserved for people with disabilities. Spaces for wheelchair users should be a minimum of 36” wide by 48” deep (60” deep, if side access). Classroom Furniture shall comply with Section 12 56 33: Accessible Classroom Furniture. Kitchens Where kitchen ranges or stove tops are installed, provide units with controls located near the front of the units. Where a microwave is provided, locate the unit such that the microwave door and all controls are located at a height not exceeding 43" in height. At kitchen counters, sink faucet controls shall be located within 20” of the front edge of the counter. Consider side mounted controls located with 16” of the front edge of the counter where feasible. Cafeterias The tops of tray slides shall be located at a height of 33” (ADA allows 28” to 34.) Accessible self-service shelves and dispensing devices shall be located at a maximum height of 33” (ADA allows 15” to 48” or 44” over counters up to 25” deep.) If dispensing devices are on a counter, the counter should be at a maximum height of 34”. Research Stations and Laboratories Provide a minimum of one accessible workstation. Provide one accessible workstation for every twenty workstations or portion thereof. Accessible work stations should have counters and sinks at 34” maximum height and compliant knee space. At an accessible work station, locate sink faucet controls along the side of the sink within 16” of the front edge of the counter. The outflow of faucet spigot shall not be located more than 16” from the front edge of the counter. Provide controls for fans, fume hoods, gas valves, etc. at a maximum height of 43”. (ADA allows 15” to 48” or 44” over counters up to 25” deep) Recreation Facilities Fitness and Weight Room Provide accessible fitness equipment that provides the same range of exercises and strength training provided by the rest of the equipment. Where feasible, provide some equipment that can be used by both able-bodied individuals as well as persons with disabilities. Provide minimum 42” clearance between all pieces of exercise equipment. Pools and Spas Provide at least two accessible means of access into all pools. At least one of these means of access should be either a pool lift or a sloped entry. Provide at least one accessible means of access into all spas. The accessible means of access should be either a pool lift, transfer wall or transfer system. Section 12 56 33: Accessible Classroom Furniture The links below provide a small outline that will take you to sections of the Accessible Classroom Furniture standards. Part 1: General Part 2: Products PART 1: GENERAL Classroom furniture is an important and often overlooked consideration in the overall accessibility for classrooms. The purpose of these standards is to provide a resource for departments, faculty, and staff who are required to ensure access for students, faculty, and visitors with disabilities to general purpose classrooms at OSU. The following standards were developed using the ADAAG, recommendations in Access for Everyone: A Guide to the Accessibility of Buildings and Sites and through research on current furniture types that both meet the requirements of the 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design and work well for users. REFERENCES 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design Access for Everyone: A Guide to the Accessibility of Buildings and Sites The United States Department of Labor, Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OHSA) IZZY Overture Chairs Qffice Master Nesting Chair Fagaleo Education Seating SurfaceWorks Height Adjustable Tables NUMBER OF ACCESSIBLE SEATS Each classroom shall have at least* the following, in addition to requirements in the 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design: One (1) - Lumbar support chair One (1) - Bariatric-rated chair Two (2) - Chairs for interpreters & transcribers One (1) - Height adjustable table Companion chairs/seating shall be provided per Sections 221 and 803 of the 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design. Additional lumbar support chairs, bariatric chairs, and height adjustable tables should be considered in large classrooms/lecture halls. Exact numbers shall be determined with OSU during design. PART 2: PRODUCTS LUMBAR SUPPORT CHAIRS Users with back injuries may have difficulty sitting for long periods of time, especially in hard non-ergonomic chairs. Sitting in non-ergonomic chairs may exacerbate pain and make it difficult for people with disabilities to utilize the classroom space. Lumbar support chairs should have the following specifications as defined by the Office of Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OHSA): A backrest that conforms to the natural curvature of the spine. Armrests should be soft, chairs without armrests allow for users of larger size (bariatric) to use the same seating. A stable base that can support users up to 300 lbs Examples of Lumbar Support Chairs (See Diagram 12 56 33A at the end of this section). BARIATRIC CHAIRS Users of larger stature need larger seating than is provided 1n classrooms to be able to participate in classes. Ergonomic chairs without arms provide the necessary size for this. To be rated a bariatric chair the weight capacity should be at least 500 lbs. CHAIRS FOR INTERPRETERS/TRANSCRIBERS Two (2) chairs for interpreters and/or transcribers shall be provided in all classrooms. The OSU required standard is the Office Master YES Series nesting chair Model YS71N. The design for the classrooms should include a provision for secure storage of the interpreter/transcriber chairs close to the front of the classrooms. Example of Interpreter/Transcriber Chair (See Diagram 12 56 338 at the end of this section) WHEELCHAIR USER SPACES If writing surfaces are provided to non-accessible spaces, wheelchair spaces shall be provided with comparable writing surfaces. It is preferable to provide multiple options for type of writing surface and seating location. In areas where space allows, tables meeting the 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design are preferable. In rooms where space does not allow or in rooms where fixed tablet arm chairs are used, tablets without a chair attached shall be provided. Tablet arm tops must meet reach range requirements and operability requirements in the 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design. When elements such as power, data ports, microphones, etc. are provided to non-accessible spaces, an equivalent element shall be provided to the accessible spaces. Example of Table Arm (See Diagram 12 56 33C at the end of this section) CLASSROOM TABLES Table Clearances Width: Provide minimum 36 inch width for a single wheelchair user or 66 inch width to accommodate two wheelchair users. Knee Space Height: Provide minimum 30" high. (The 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design require at least 27 inches.) Knee Space Depth: Provide minimum 19" deep knee space clear of any obstructions. The space under the table top shall be unobstructed (i.e. no crossbar supports) Fixed tables Where fixed tables are provided, the bottom of the table top should be minimum 30 inches in height. (The 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design require at least 27 inches.) The table top must be no higher than 34 inches. Adjustable Tables Adjustable tables should not have a crossbar underneath, as this prohibits a wheelchair user from pulling all the way under the table. These tables should be at least 66 inches wide to allow for two users and/or companions, and should be height adjustable from at least 25 inches to 40 inches. Controls: There are four types of controls on adjustable tables: top-crank, sidecrank, hydraulic assist, and electric. Electric or hydraulic controlled tables are preferred. If electric or hydraulic tables are cost prohibitive or power is not available, side-crank tables should be provided. Top-crank tables shall not be used. On side-crank tables, the crank mechanism should fold under the table top so it can be hidden under the table to reduce possible breakage and prevent the possibility of tripping or snagging clothes. Cranks should be metal instead of plastic to prevent possible breakage and need for more constant maintenance. Cranks should not be removable Examples of Adjustable Table (See Diagram 12 56 33D at the end of this section) TABLES FOR LOBBIES AND STUDY AREAS Where tables are provided in lobbies, study areas, and similar spaces, a minimum of one in five tables shall be accessible meeting the clearance requirements stated in 5 above. Where fewer than five tables are provided, at least ore shall be accessible. In general, pedestal tables are not considered accessible because of inadequate clear space below the table. SIGNS Appropriate signs indicating that accessible spaces and furniture are preferred for persons with disabilities shall be provided by OSU. Signs for the interpreter and transcriber chairs shall also be provided. It is the responsibility of the construction manager to arrange for signs to be provided. Signs for accessible spaces and furniture shall be a blue background with white text, 6 inches high and 4 inches wide, and include the language, "Preferred Seating for People with Disabilities. Do not remove or relocate. Questions? Call: 541-737-4098 Disability Access Services." Standard accessibility icons should follow. The interpreter and transcriber chair signs shall be a blue background with white text, 2.5 inches high by 4 inches wide, and include the language, "Interpreter/Transcriber Chair." Examples of Signage (See Diagram 12 56 33E at the end of this section) OSU Construction Standards Revision 2015.04 Announcements Announcement Feed There are no Announcements at this time. - May 30th, 2022 Home Recent Efforts to Improve Accessibility Policies and Guidance Nondiscrimination Policy IT Accessibility Policy Service & Assistance Animal Policy University Memos Accessible Event Planning Built Environment Accessibility Comprehensive Plan Assessment Reports Best Practices Accessible Parking Building Access Complaint IT Accessibility Resources & Tools OSU Contacts Contact Info Equal Opportunity and Access 330 Snell Hall Corvallis, Oregon 97331 Ph: 541-737-3556 Accessibility Email Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer