Digital Accessibility at Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Initiatives Policies & Guidelines Submenu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Quality Assurance Submenu Testing & Consultations Website Quality Assurance Tools Training Submenu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants How To... Submenu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility News Accommodations Get Help Search Search Section Menu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility Alternative Text When images are present in Web content, we must provide meaningful alternative text description so that users of screen readers can have the image described to them. Also, we must provide ways for screen readers to ignore images that are used for decoration. Best Practices Describe the image in context based on what details the image adds to the text. If the image is of a dog and a firefighter, depending on the context, the ideal alt text could be "Smith poses with the station's new rescue dog" or "kids love that the new rescue dog has a heart-shaped spot on its chest." Keep the descriptions short and concise; roughly 140 characters or less. Do not use the word “graphic or image” in the description ("image of a running dog"), as the screen reader already takes care of it. Just say "a running dog." Use an empty alt for decorative images like spacers or uninformative backgrounds (alt='""), to tell screen readers to completely ignore the image. Note that this empty alt must be present, or the screen reader will read the filename one character at a time! Don't do This alt="ama-dablam-2064522_1280.jpg" The image has alternative text that reads "ama-dablam-2064522_1280" which is the file name from the stock house from which it was downloaded. A screen reader will read this one character at a time, and the screen reader user will have no idea what the image contains or means. alt="divider line" Visual users get to skim over spacer elements; giving them descriptive alternative text means screen reader users have to stop and think about each one. Do This alt="Himalayan mountain peak" This alternative text describes the image adequately. Depending on the context, it may also be appropriate to mention the snow, or to wax poetic about the clear sky and clouds, or to emphasize that attempting to ski here is inadvisable to the many cliffs and crags. alt="" This empty alt instructs the screen reader to jump over this image and read the next paragraph. This is what most users would prefer. Read more WebAim's guide to alternative text WCAG Success Criteria 1.1.1 Non-text Content Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University