Digital Accessibility at Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Initiatives Policies & Guidelines Submenu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Quality Assurance Submenu Testing & Consultations Website Quality Assurance Tools Training Submenu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants How To... Submenu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility News Accommodations Get Help Search Search Section Menu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants Certifications Certified Professional in Accessibility Core Competencies The CPACC is a foundational professional credential that represents the ability to apply broad, cross-disciplinary conceptual knowledge about disabilities and accessibility. At Princeton, we have created a welcoming and innovative program to certify staff in any role, whether technical or non-technical. To date, over 100 staff have received certifications. We believe that everyone can benefit from and apply accessibility knowledge in their work, and we especially encourage those who: Want to create more inclusive experiences Create content Design, develop, manage, and support IT Evaluate and purchase technology Organize and host meetings Work with students OIT's training program is cohort-based and is generally offered in the summer and late fall. It includes an online course, three in-person training classes, study sessions, and the exam. Participants should expect to spend at least 50 hours in the preparation program. The thoroughness of the preparation gives us a high pass rate. Those who do well in the practice exam have their certification fees met by OIT. Course topics include: Disabilities, challenges and assistive technologies Etiquette Accommodations Universal design Standards and laws Integrating digital accessibility in the organization CPACC classes are open only to members of the University community. Ask to join a CPACC study cohort Web Accessibility Specialist A WAS certification demonstrates a deep, technical understanding of the design, code and testing methods needed to create accessible websites and applications. This track is recommended for developers who regularly create front-end themes or interactive content. The introductory and DIY testing for developers classes or their equivalent will provide a good starting point for developers seeking this certification. As the material is highly technical, certificate-holders at Princeton have reported spending up to 60 hours on coursework and study materials before sitting for the exam. Topics include: The specific requirements of key standards, including WCAG 2.1, WAI-ARIA and ATAG Usable and accessible design and code patterns for common components Techniques needed to enable access for all common assistive technologies Testing with assistive technologies, including screen readers Remediation techniques WAS classes are open only to members of the University community. Ask to join a WAS study cohort Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University