Skip to content Accessibility Toggle navigation Campus Resources Physical Accessibility Digital Accessibility Campus Policies and Contacts Report an Access Concern Accessibility at NC State Campus Resources Student Accommodations The Disability Resource Office provides accommodations for students on campus to ensure equal educational opportunities. Employee Accommodations The ADA Coordinator in the Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity provides accommodations for employees, including student employees to ensure equal job opportunities. Visitor Accommodations The Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity works with hosting departments to provide visitor accommodations. For questions about reasonable accommodations, please email ada_coordinator@ncsu.edu or call (919) 515-3148. Prospective Employee Accommodations The ADA Coordinator in the Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity provides accommodations for prospective employees. Explore Jobs at NCSU. Physical Accessibility University Libraries The library provides accessible parking, accessible technologies in computer labs, and an Accessible Technology Center. Parking and Transportation Transportation provides accessible parking permits and accessible bus transportation. Wolfpack Pickup helps people with mobile impairments get around campus. For information about the physical accessibility of campus, please see the Accessible Campus Map (PDF). Sporting Events GoPack.com provides accessible seating for sporting events. Digital Accessibility Course Accessibility Faculty and staff should consult the Quick Course Content Checklist and the IT Accessibility Quick Guide to begin exploring how to create accessible educational and other electronic material Create Accessible IT Web Developers should consult the Web Accessibility Handbook for guides on creating accessible Web sites and the IT Accessibility website for more information. Procurement All information and communication technology purchases must adhere to university policies. Bidders for purchase orders must provide accessibility documentation and many purchases are subject to an Accessibility Review prior to procurement and upon each renewal. Campus Policies and Contacts Accessibility Policies NC State has a number of Policies and Regulations addressing accessibility. Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination Policy Statement Academic Accommodations for Students with Disabilities Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Accessibility Regulation ICT Accessibility Regulation FAQs Service Animals for Persons with Disabilities Service and Assistance Animals in University-Owned Housing Facilities Questions If you are a student with a disability, please email the Disability Resource Office. If you are a faculty or staff member or a member of the public with a disability requiring an accommodation, please contact the ADA Coordinator in the Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity. If you want to report an accessibility issue, such as an inaccessible entrance or path or inaccessible website, please report it using the Access Concerns form. You may also report a concern about compliance using NC State’s Ethics Line. General questions or requests about IT Accessibility may be sent to accessibility@ncsu.edu. Accessibility Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC State University North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011