Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU > About the Student Access Program About the Student Access Program ACCESSIBILITY @ TU CONTACT US Student Access Office Student Access is committed to helping students succeed academically and believes in providing all students with appropriate resources to monitor their progress. Student Access provides services which will, in combination with the resources and talents of the student, maximize the students’ independence for full participation in the TU curriculum and provide an opportunity to achieve career goals. TU and Student Access provide reasonable academic related and other accommodations for students with documented disabilities when there is a disability-related need for the accommodation. TU is in compliance with requirements under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and the Americans with Disabilities Act and Amendments. Students must provide sufficient disability documentation as determined by the 504/ADA Coordinator to Student Access before services or accommodations will be provided. Documentation should be no more than three years old. It is the student’s responsibility to provide or pay for the cost of this evaluation and/or documentation. After the appropriate documentation is received by Student Access, the student should make arrangements to meet with Student Access staff to discuss disability-related needs. TU reserves the right to determine the most effective and timely accommodation(s) after consultation with the student and appropriate health care providers, with the student’s permission, as the 504/ADA Coordinator deems essential. There are detailed procedures for the use of the services or accommodations, and there are appropriate restrictions or limitations on some of the services and accommodations. Students should meet with Student Access staff to discuss these procedures and review the written information, and to resolve any problems with access to campus programs or activities. Certain services or accommodations may need more advanced planning and the student is urged to contact Student Access at least three weeks before the start of classes for any semester. Policies and procedures are available on the Accessibility@TU website or at the Student Access office. Prospective and Incoming Students If you desire to provide verification about your disability and request accommodations, please contact Student Access as soon as possible. Student Access encourages prospective students to examine their options before making final decisions about where to go to school. Student Access staff are available to meet with prospective students who may be interested in learning about our services, meeting our staff, touring our offices, and discussing the types of support resources available at TU. Current Students The university policy relating to students with disabilities is published in the Student Handbook. The policy and related forms are available online or at the Student Access office which are subject to periodic review and revision by the university. For specific information, please refer to the policy as published. Self-Advocacy Student Access promotes student self-advocacy for their individual needs. Student Access staff will assist students in consulting with faculty about their disability accommodations. Students, upon receipt of their accommodations, are encouraged to speak with their instructors during the first week of classes about their needs and visit their classrooms ahead of every semester to check for accessibility. Campus Accessibility TU is striving to make the campus fully accessible for students with mobility impairments. Please refer to the accessibility map to locate routes with the least restrictions. If for any reason a class or other campus activity is scheduled in an inaccessible location, the class or activity may be relocated upon request to the 504/ADA Coordinator. Additional Information: Student Access Hardesty Hall Holmes Student Center 1st Floor 800 South Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104-3189 918-631-2315 (Voice) 918-631-3329 (TDD) 918-631-3459 (Fax) For a confidential consultation, contact Student Access at 918-631-2315 or studentaccess@utulsa.edu. Nondiscrimination Statement: The University of Tulsa does not discriminate on the basis of personal status or group characteristics including but not limited to the classes protected under federal and state law in its programs, services, aids, or benefits. Inquiries regarding implementation of this policy may be addressed to the Office of Human Resources, 800 S. Tucker Drive, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104-3189, 918-631-2616. Requests for accommodation of disabilities may be addressed to Dr. Tawny Rigsby, 918-631-2334, University Compliance. To ensure availability of an interpreter, five to seven days’ notice is needed. General Services for Students with Accommodations Consultation with faculty and students about disability accommodations for courses Accessibility management advising Advocacy for appropriate accommodations Accessibility resource materials Referral to community resources Referral for assessment(s) Orientation to physical access features and routes Access ramps to most facilities Assistance with architectural barriers Types of Disabilities recognized at the University Physical disabilities Serious medical conditions Hearing disabilities Visual disabilities Psychological disabilities Learning Disabilities Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD) or Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) Others as deemed appropriate Please Note: Students with Learning Possible Accommodations for Students Priority registration for classes Special seating locations in classes Testing accommodations: additional testing time and distraction-reduced testing environments Recording lectures and Notetaking assistance Technology accommodations in class Assistance in ordering pre-recorded textbooks/materials and e-books Scribes and readers for exams Part-time enrollment, or reduced course-load On-campus transportation, accessible parking Course substitutions Absence notification American Sign Language interpreting services when arranged in advance per Student Access guidelines Assistive listening devices, TDD’s Captioning (when available) Document conversion (enlarged printing and scanning) Assistive computer technology Braille transcription 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT