Digital Accessibility at Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Initiatives Policies & Guidelines Submenu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Quality Assurance Submenu Testing & Consultations Website Quality Assurance Tools Training Submenu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants How To... Submenu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility News Accommodations Get Help Search Search Getting help with accessibility Current Start Princeton resources Complete Type of access request "Access" means many things to many people. Help us get you to the right person. I have questions about being admitted to or affording Princeton I need help with a login or a password to access a resource I am looking for accessible parking, routes and transit I have encountered a disability-related website accessibility issue Help for Students & Prospective Students The Office of Disability Services should be the first point of contact for: Academic accommodations. Environmental adjustments, including housing, dining and transportation. Service animal residency requests. Provision of auxiliary aids and services. Modifications to University policies, rules, and regulations. The McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning provides tutoring and consultations for specific courses and for broad learning and academic strategies. The Office of Admission provides support for information about accessing Princeton as an international or financial aid student. Faculty & Staff Consult the Office of Disability Faculty FAQs regarding student accommodation requests. Employee accommodation requests should begin with a request to the employee's supervisor. Information Technology Report an issue with a University website or application on this page. Requests are monitored during normal business hours Monday through Friday. Getting to and Around Campus For detailed information on accessible parking, services, and paths and entrances, please visit the Transportation and Parking Services Campus Accessibility webpage. Related Policies Disability and Accessibility Digital Accessibility Leave this field blank Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University