Digital Accessibility at Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Initiatives Policies & Guidelines Submenu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Quality Assurance Submenu Testing & Consultations Website Quality Assurance Tools Training Submenu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants How To... Submenu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility News Accommodations Get Help Search Search Section Menu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility Lists Use Bullet & Number Feature to Make Lists Lists are meant to function and behave in a certain way in Web content. When we provide a visual formatting of a list in our layout, we must provide an equivalent experience to the non-sighted user. The non-sighted user with a screen reader will be able to expose the number of items in a list, and be able to jump from list to list in the content. Best Practices Avoid making paragraphs that look like lists using bullets symbols or numbers. Format the text as a real bullet or numbered list using the list button. Nest list elements to create structure: Use the indent button in your toolbar to do this. Or select the list items you want to nest and click "Tab" (indent) or "Shift + Tab" (outdent). Don't do This Manually Formatted Bulleted List • Fruit - Apple - A very long sentence about oranges, which is probably going to wrap over the line without an indent in a confusing an not particularly attractive manner - Pear • Vegetables • Dairy Why Is This Wrong? A sighted user can tell the content is a list by the visual formatting, and can make an assessment of the length of the list, but they are likely to see formatting errors. A screen reader will announce the items as unrelated paragraphs: it not be able to tell the user that this is a list, or how many items there are in it, or which items were indented. It will also be confusingly announcing the names of the symbols at the start of each new line: "bullet! bullet! dash! dash!" Do This Programmatically Formatted Bulleted List Fruit Apple A very long sentence about oranges, which is going to wrap over the line with its indent preserved, reinforcing its position in the list Pear Vegetables Dairy Why is This Right? This bulleted/unordered list will read aloud via a screen reader as list of three items, and will identify the sublists as a nested list of three items. Testing for Accessibility Test Use this lists bookmarklet or automated testing tool like WAVE to discover lists on a page Do all visually formatted lists have an <ol> or <ul> tag? Are sublists set in their own <ol> or <ul> tag? Exceptions None Applicable WCAG Success Criteria SC 1.3.1 Info and Relationships Resources Web Accessibility Initiatives (WAI) page on the structure of Web content Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University