Skip to content IT Accessibility Toggle navigation Home For Faculty and Staff For IT Staff and Developers Training Procurement Staff Report a Problem IT Accessibility Quick Guide This quick guide is designed to provide a high-level understanding of how to use different types of campus technologies accessibly. For more detailed information follow the links for each technology. Technology Overview of How to Build it Accessibly How to Check if it is Accessible Technology Quick Guides Google Docs use heading styles for read-only versions of a Google Doc, export it to an MS Word document DO NOT create PDF files directly from Google Docs PLAN on some users not being able to edit documents online For users with visual impairments, Google Documents will need to be converted into Microsoft Word documents. After conversion, use the process for “Microsoft Word”. Google Sites only insert text, links, lists, and images (with alternative text) into Google Sites tables and other embedded objects cannot be made fully accessible PLAN on some users not being able to edit content within Sites Follow the same process as “Web Pages”. Math use MathType to help you write your equations in either the MathML, LaTeX, or TeX formats use MathJax to insert those equations into Web pages If you are delivering them in Microsoft Word, when you edit the equation in Word, the MathType equation editor should load. If you are delivering them in a Web page, when you control click on the equation you should see an option for “About MathJax”. Microsoft Excel specify column headers DO NOT use blank cells for formatting Run the Microsoft Excel Accessibility Checker. It will guide you through making it accessible. Microsoft PowerPoint use built-in slide layouts add alternative text for images DO NOT save as a Web page Run the Microsoft PowerPoint Accessibility Checker. It will guide you through making it accessible. Microsoft Word use heading styles (can be customized) use built-in formats for bullet lists, columns, and tables avoid floating text boxes include alternative text for images DO NOT save as a Web page Run the Microsoft Word Accessibility Checker. It will guide you through making it accessible. Moodle most of Moodle’s functionality is accessible the Choice and Forum activities can cause problems the Drag and Drop question types are not accessible user added content must be designed accessibly The Moodle interface is mostly accessible. The content you will need to check will be content you create in Moodle or upload to Moodle. For content you create in Moodle, follow the same process as “Web Pages”. For content you upload to Moodle, use the appropriate guide from this document. Narrated Presentations use university-supported screen recording software like Panopto provide captions for the video Follow the same process as “Video”. Online Surveys use Qualtrics for point-and-click form creation use Google Forms for simple forms Qualtrics is mostly accessible and includes a tool to check for accessibility. Inaccessible question types have been turned off. If you are not using Qualtrics, use the same process as “Web Pages”. Panopto Review automated caption files to ensure they are accurate. Use the built-in editor to make needed changes. Caption files can be uploaded for videos in Panopto. Panopto is generally very accessible as long as accurate caption files are provided with any videos hosted with the service. PDF Documents use software that creates accessible PDFs, like Microsoft Word (Windows only) or InDesign use the Libraries’ Course Reserves for scanned articles OCR must be run on scanned items use Adobe Acrobat Pro Accessibility Wizard to check document Fully determining the accessibility of a PDF document is challenging. The following procedure will let you get an overview of a document’s accessibility. In Adobe Acrobat choose “Full check” under View, then Tools, then Accessibility. Confirm the correct document reading order by selecting “Read Out Loud” in the View menu to have the document read to you. PlayPosit This product is currently not accessible for certain types of assistive technology or for keyboard only access NOTE: The vendor is working with NC State to make accessibility updates As an alternative to PlayPosit, provide students that need alternative access direct access to the captioned YouTube video and an accessible Word Document or Google Form with the same questions used in the PlayPosit bulb. TopHat Click on Target questions in TopHat are not accessible to students with visual impairments Professors should create an alternative question (e.g. multiple choice) Keyboard focus is not visible in all of TopHat. Users can compensate for this by using programs that offer an alternative treatment such as VoiceOver or the Flying Focus extension for Google Chrome. Video include captions use an accessible media player, like VideoJS, YouTube or Panopto Note: some content presented in the video may need to be repurposed in a textual format for people with visual impairments. You should be able to view captions. You should be able to play, pause, fast forward, rewind, and toggle the captions for the video using only your keyboard. Web Pages design to the WCAG 2.1, Level AA standard use freely available tools to test for Web page accessibility For publicly available content, use either Pope Tech Accessibility Scan WAVE Web Accessibility Evaluation Tool (Pages) WAVE Chrome Extension (Pages) For individual pages or password protected content use either: WAVE Chrome Extension (Pages) WordPress use an accessible theme use headings appropriately add alternative text to images Follow the same process as “Web Pages”. Zoom adding captions to a meeting directly or through a third-party captioning service is available keyboard shortcuts are available for easy navigation The Zoom interface is accessible. Some users may not be able to use the annotating features and will need anything described audibly. Resources EEAAP Template (Word) IT Accessibility Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC State University North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011