Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Accessibility Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift You are here Home » Policies and Guidance OSU Policy on Information Technology Accessibility Content: Part I: Introduction Part II: Policy Statement Part III: Responsible Parties for Implementation of this Policy Part IV: Compliance Part V: Definitions Part VI: Additional Contacts Part I: Introduction Oregon State University is committed to providing equality of opportunity to persons with disabilities, including equal access to University programs, services and activities provided through information technology (IT). With its rapid proliferation, information technology is increasingly the medium for University programs and services. Consequently it is becoming increasingly important that accessibility considerations are in the forefront as we design, acquire or use new information technology. Because of its myriad forms and the numerous individuals throughout the University involved in the design, acquisition or use of information technology, without a policy and required minimum standards and expectations we are challenged in achieving University-wide adherence to practices that ensure access for persons with disabilities. Therefore, this policy establishes minimum standards and expectations regarding the design, acquisition or use of information technology. The policy will be introduced in phases. This first phase includes website and web-based content accessibility. This includes all electronic documents and multimedia that are distributed through the web. Additional phases of the policy will include, at a minimum; hardware, software and the procurement of these IT products. This policy is a living document that will change over time as IT changes. Ample opportunities for education and communication will occur whenever changes to the policy take place. Part II: Policy Statement OSU commits to ensuring equal access to all University programs, services and activities provided through information technology (IT). Unless an exemption applies and according to the applicability and timeline specifications below, all colleges, departments, offices and entities of the University will: Use University web page designs that are consistent with the W3C’s Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 (WCAG) Level AA. For further information on the policy and WCAG visit the University’s Information Technology Accessibility website. Disseminate electronic documents and multimedia on web pages that are consistent with this policy. Applicability: This policy applies to all IT that is acquired, developed, distributed, used, purchased or implemented by or for any Oregon State University unit and used to provide university programs, services, or activities through websites or web-based applications, including: Official web pages and associated web-based applications (see Web Page Requirements & Time Frames below) Electronic Documents Any documents created or obtained, and disseminated after the effective date of this policy. Electronic documents created or obtained prior to effective date of the policy and that are disseminated on a web page must comply according to the time frames specified below for web page requirements. Multimedia Any multimedia created or obtained, and disseminated after the effective date of the policy Multimedia created or obtained prior to the effective date of this policy and that is disseminated on a web page must comply according to the time frames specified below for web page requirements. Web Page Requirements & Time Frames: All new and revised web pages, website templates, and website themes published on or after the effective date of this policy must comply with WCAG 2.0 Level AA (additional information located on the Information Technology Accessibility website). All new and revised web pages must indicate in plain text a method for users having trouble accessing the site to report that inaccessibility. This could be in the form of contact information after the “Copyright 2010…Disclaimer” statement on the bottom of every OSU page. When contacted and offered technical assistance, units with identified high priority legacy pages must cooperate with the Office of Equal Opportunity and Access to make their web pages consistent with WCAG 2.0 Level AA. Units will be notified if their legacy pages have been deemed high priority and will be provided technical assistance, as needed. High priority pages will be identified by: The top 20% of web pages most frequently visited as defined by Digital Experience Pages required for participation, funding, disability-related services and other key pages needed by people with disabilities not already in the top 20% Other pages determined to be of the most importance in providing university services online (core institutional information) All legacy pages must indicate in plain text a method for users having trouble accessing the site to report that inaccessibility. This could be in the form of contact information after the “Copyright 2010…Disclaimer” statement on the bottom of every OSU page. Exemptions: Archived Web pages do not have to comply with WCAG 2.0 Level AA unless specifically requested by an individual with a disability. Units with legacy pages not deemed high priority also do not have to comply with WCAG 2.0 Level AA, but are encouraged to identify and improve the accessibility of their pages. Undue burden and non-availability may qualify as an exemption from the policy under the following circumstances: Where compliance is not technically possible, or is unreasonably expensive or difficult in that it may require extraordinary measures due to the nature of the IT or the intent of a web page. The conclusion of undue burden or non-availability is an institutional decision to be made by the Equal Opportunity and Access in consultation with the affected unit and others with relevant perspective or expertise. Effective Date: This policy will take effect six months after its adoption. Effective: February 22, 2012 Date of Adoption and Last Date Updated: Adopted: August 22, 2011 Updated: August 22, 2011 Part III: Responsible Parties for Implementation of this Policy President Provost Vice Presidents Vice Provosts Deans/Directors Department Heads/Chairs Any employees (including students) who are responsible for their unit’s website or web-based applications Anyone who uses web pages to provide university services, programs or activities Any individual that creates or edits University affiliated web pages Part IV: Compliance Equal Opportunity and Access is responsible for overseeing compliance with regard to state and federal regulations that prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability and require reasonable accommodation. Questions or concerns regarding compliance with the policy or standards, or complaints of discrimination, should be directed to Equal Opportunity and Access. Each individual or unit responsible for web content must also know the policy and how to provide accessible content. Those responsible must also monitor and evaluate their content regularly for accessibility. Help on this can be found on the Information Technology Accessibility website or by utilizing the additional contacts below. Part VI: Definitions 508 Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Archived page A web page that has been kept for information purposes only, with no plans for redesign or alteration. Electronic Document Any file that is posted or distributed through a web page. These files usually are created, edited and viewed with such software as word processors, spreadsheets, presentations/slideshows and portable document format (PDF). Common examples of software used to create such files include Microsoft Office, Apple iWork and Adobe products. Information Technology Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information. The term information technology includes computers, ancillary equipment, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related resources. Legacy Web Page A web page published prior to the effective date of this policy. New Web Page A web page created for or by any Oregon State University unit after the effective date of this policy. Revised Web Page A web page that has been altered or updated through visual design or significant content additions, subtractions, or modifications after the effective date of this policy. W3C World Wide Web Consortium. The main international standards group for website design. WCAG Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, version 1.0 published in 1999, version 2.0 published in 2008. WCAG is a working group of the W3C that focuses specifically on accessibility standards creation. WCAG is a widely accepted and commonly used standard. Web-based Applications Usually provided by third-party contracted services, web-based applications are any service that is provided online, but not specifically in a web page format. Examples include Banner, Blackboard, Data Warehouse, Luminis and My Degrees. Web Page A single internet address (aka URL) that contains content that must be viewed through a web browser. Usually, multiple web pages are linked to define a website. Website A group of connected web pages regarded as a single entity, or several closely related topics, such as a college, department or office website. A website usually consists of a home page. Part VII: Additional Contacts Who to contact for different questions one may have with regards to the policy and how to ensure the accessibility of your website. Subject Contact Policy Questions & Accessibility Consulting Gabriel Merrell, Equal Opportunity and Access Technical Questions OSU Accessibility Website Web Design Digital Experience Inaccessible Content Contact page owner/department Announcements Announcement Feed There are no Announcements at this time. - May 30th, 2022 Home Recent Efforts to Improve Accessibility Policies and Guidance Nondiscrimination Policy IT Accessibility Policy Service & Assistance Animal Policy University Memos Accessible Event Planning Built Environment Accessibility Comprehensive Plan Assessment Reports Best Practices Accessible Parking Building Access Complaint IT Accessibility Resources & Tools OSU Contacts Contact Info Equal Opportunity and Access 330 Snell Hall Corvallis, Oregon 97331 Ph: 541-737-3556 Accessibility Email Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer