Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Accessible KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About ADA RCEA Select to follow link People Our Mission Contact Accessibility Resources Select to follow link Planning Accessible Events Emergency Evacuation Procedures Content Accessibility ADA Compliance Select to follow link Architectural Barriers Committee Transition Plan Training & Events Select to follow link ADA 30 - Nothing About Us Without Us - A Virtual Celebration With Judith Heumann Select to follow link Event schedule Panelists and Moderators Event media Mentoring Circles for Disability Inclusion Program Training Materials National Disability Employment Awareness Month Events #DisabilityArt Council for Disability Inclusion Panel Intro to Audio Description Accommodations Select to follow link Academic Accommodations Employment Accommodations Housing Resources Parking Special Diets Emotional Support Animal Jaylift Content Accessibility Select to follow link Ally for LMS and Web Documents Select to follow link Scanned Documents Word Documents Excel Documents PowerPoint Presentations PDF Documents Email Video Select to follow link Captioning General Process for Captioning Approved Captioning Vendors YouTube Videos Transcripts Audio Description Web Pages Select to follow link Alt Text for Images Correct use of Headers Links Tables Focus Lists Color Considerations Accessible Forms Resources Select to follow link Campus Resources Community Resources Edwards Campus Resources Local Employment Resources Statewide Resources Parent & Visitor Resources Maps ADA RCEA Best Practice Guidelines for Planning an Accessible Event ADA RCEA Mental Health Resource Guide Videos Select to follow link ADA Impact Videos Hawk Route Videos Past Videos Community Mental Health Supports Select to follow link Campus Resources Community Resources Faculty Resources Mental Health Information Mental Health On Campus Resources for Times of Crisis Policies Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Accessible KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Community Mental Health Supports Faculty Resources Faculty members are some of the most important people students will come in contact with during their time at KU. Faculty also serve the dual role of being co-workers and employees as well. In this section we hope to provide faculty members with the resources to support their co-workers, students, and each other. Center for Faculty Development and Mentoring FAQ: Supporting Colleagues and Students in Crisis Whom can I contact on campus for help in supporting employees in crisis and/or other employee situations where I am uncertain how to respond? Click to expand If supervisors and/or employees encounter situations regarding the welfare of an employee, feel uncertain about future action, or if an employee has shared in confidence thoughts of self-harm or harm to others, contact the ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility (accessibility@ku.edu, 785-864-748) or Employee Relations (hrdept@ku.edu, 785-864-4946). How do I recognize if one of my employees is in need of help and/or resources? Click to expand Crises like COVID-19 impact the well-being of all employees. Some individuals with mental health diagnoses may experience an increase in symptoms, and other individuals experience a new mental health diagnosis, such as anxiety or depression as a result of COVID-19. A supervisor may be the first individual to recognize that an employee needs help. The list below provides some examples of behaviors that may indicate an employee is having a difficult time. This list is not intended to be exhaustive nor should it be used to diagnose a behavioral health issue. Only mental health professionals are qualified to provide a diagnosis. Crying spells Withdrawal from others Neglect of responsibilities and loss of motivation Loss of interest in personal appearance Use of drugs and/or alcohol Fatigue and lack of energy Unexplained weight loss or gain Unexplained aches and pains Displaying extreme mood swing Behaving recklessly Sleeping too much or too little Distracted or preoccupied thought processes Lengthy, ranting or threatening communication with staff, faculty, peers, and/or visitors Loss of interest in previously desired activities, hobbies, etc. Increased absence Fear of financial instability Fear of loss of employment Statements of self-harm or harm to others Changes in employee behavior How do I have this conversation with the employee? Click to expand If you see an employee in need, notify your supervisor and discuss the situation. Then, if you feel comfortable: Reach out to the employee. Remain calm in your conversation with the employee. Ask how you can help. Let them know you support them. Listen non-judgmentally to their concerns. Provide resource information: Employee Assistance Program (1-888-275-1205 option #1) and/or ADA RCEA Mental Health Resource Guide Follow up with the employee the following day to offer further support and ensure they have resources they need. Faculty who Excel at Supporting Students Below is a list of faculty members who have been recommended to our office as faculty members who support their students in innovative and responsive ways. If you are a faculty with questions on what you can do to ensure your classroom is inclusive of all of your students, please email a faculty below for tips they use in their classrooms. A searchable table of faculty who excel at supporting students Name Focus Department Contact Giselle Anatol Professor English ganatol@ku.edu Leah Terranova Assistant Dean School of Law leaht@ku.edu Najarian Peters Associate Professor School of Law najarian.peters@ku.edu Tammara Durham Vice Provost of Student Affairs Student Affairs tdurham@ku.edu Ward Lyles Associate Professor Urban Planning w872l929@ku.edu Report Barriers Report Barriers Carruth-O'Leary Hall 1246 W Campus Rd Lawrence, KS 66045 accessibility@ku.edu 785-864-4946 instagram twitter Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.