Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Accessible Technology About Accessible Technology Compliance Committee Contact Announcements Policies & Guidelines University Policies Departmental Policies Standards and Guidelines Temple Resources Accommodations Assistive Technology Consultations Learning Opportunities How-To Materials Accessible Computer Labs and Learning Spaces Accessible Materials Website Accessibility Accessibility Tips A guide to accessible purchasing ≡ Menu About Accessible Technology Compliance Committee Contact Announcements Policies & Guidelines University Policies Departmental Policies Standards and Guidelines Temple Resources Accommodations Assistive Technology Consultations Learning Opportunities How-To Materials Accessible Computer Labs and Learning Spaces Accessible Materials Website Accessibility Accessibility Tips A guide to accessible purchasing You are here Home » Temple Resources » Accommodations Accommodations Accommodations There are two departments within the University that help determine reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities. Students requiring assistance should contact the Disability Resources and Services Department and employees should speak with the Human Resources Department. Visitors who need accommodations should contact the person, department, or organization sponsoring the event. Disability Resources and Services (DRS) To advance Temple’s commitment to diversity and inclusion, DRS provides leadership to the University community to ensure that students with a disability have full access to the University experience. DRS uses an individualized process to establish reasonable accommodations for students with a disability. Disability Resources and Services (DRS) 100 Ritter Annex (004-03) 1301 Cecil B. Moore Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 215.204.1280 (Voice) 215.204.6794 (Fax) 214.204.1786 (TTY) drs@temple.edu Human Resources Employees who need accommodations to perform the essential functions of their job should contact Deirdre Culbreath-Walton within the Human Resources Department. Human Resources Temple’s Administration and Services Building (TASB) 2450 W. Hunting Park Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19129 215-926-2296 (Voice) 215-926-2299 (Fax) Deirdre.Walton@temple.edu Individuals who feel they have not been accommodated appropriately, or are having difficulty with their accommodation, should contact their dean or the office of Equal Opportunity Compliance to speak with an ombudsperson. Accommodations for visitors Visitors to Temple University who need accommodations should contact the person, department, or organization sponsoring the event. For a list of accessible routes on main campus, visit https://route.temple.edu In this Section Accommodations Assistive Technology Consultations Learning Opportunities Temple University Accessible Technology Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Accessible Technology Departments: TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright , Temple University. All rights reserved.