Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU > Stories > Student Access Office supports students with learning, emotional needs Student Access Office supports students with learning, emotional needs August 17, 2020 As a college student, juggling studying, maintaining a healthy mindset and a personal life can be difficult, especially for students with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) or other learning disabilities. The University of Tulsa offers these students resources, such as free assistance and coaching, to be successful. Recently, the Student Access office opened a sensory room — a therapeutic space filled with soothing sounds, cool colors and a relaxing place to sit. The room helps students decompress so they can be better prepared for class and to interact with others. The trend started in 2019 when the Philadelphia Eagles, Seattle Seahawks, Minnesota Vikings and Jacksonville Jaguars opened similar rooms for fans who require a calm, quiet place away from a loud football game. TU currently has two sensory rooms available on campus, with another in the works. While building their resumes and practicing for interviews, the biggest questions students with disabilities ask is, “Should I disclose my disability?” and “How do talk about it?” explained Tawny Rigsby, director of Student Academic Success. “More than 500 students at TU are registered with disabilities. This population can have a lot of anxiety and can struggle remembering to have self-care,” she said. Student Access trains faculty and staff to provide guidance to professors on how best to accommodate students with learning disabilities, which has built trust, created resources and helped make TU autism friendly. Building trust All students registered with Student Access are eligible to receive assistance and coaching. The Pathfinders is uniquely designed to meet the needs of TU students living with autism spectrum disorders or social anxiety disorders. Student Access welcomes students living with these differences as well as their friends and families. In Pathfinders, students participate in skills-building groups, social events and academic success coaching, all with their sensory needs in mind. Group discussion topics include building and maintaining relationships, talking with professors and practicing self-care. “We have seen students that didn’t have a lot of friends or a network, form friendships through the SOP,” explained David Kobel, director for Student Access. Student Access is located in the Holmes Student Center in Hardesty Hall The program has grown to 53 students in the 2019-20 academic year and is open to those not only with autism but also with sensory processing issues, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and tics. Student Access social events use specific tools such as sensory-friendly games and service dogs to create a comfortable atmosphere for students. Academic success coaches guide students through topics and skills-building sessions and help them grow as peers and future professionals. In everyday activities, students work on improving their communication with others and resolving disagreements with classmates or even roommates. “Students continuing to visit our office and bring friends show us that they are getting something out of the program,” Kobel said. Student Access will offer a mentoring program with faculty, staff and students next fall. Stories Pathfinders, sensory room, social events 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT