Digital Accessibility at Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Initiatives Policies & Guidelines Submenu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Quality Assurance Submenu Testing & Consultations Website Quality Assurance Tools Training Submenu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants How To... Submenu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility News Accommodations Get Help Search Search Section Menu Classes Certifications Meetups & Channels Certificants Training and Events We offer training and events to help members of the University community build skills and expand their awareness of disability and digital accessibility. From introductory classes to deep dives into technical topics and opportunities to achieve professional certification, we offer training that helps you provide digital information and experiences that are inclusive to people with disabilities. We also offer custom training on topics focuses on the needs of your group. Instructor-Led and Recorded Classes Certifications Meetups & Channels Upcoming Classes & Events Web Accessibility Specialist Certification (WAS) 2022 Wed, Apr 6, 2022 – Wed, Sep 28, 2022 This training prepares Princeton staff in technical roles to take the International Association of Accessibility Professionals' Web Accessibility Specialist (WAS) certification exam. WAS is a technical-level credential covering the design, code and testing needed to produce accessible websites and applications – things we must do, but… Certified Professional of Accessibility Core Competencies (CPACC) Accessibility Certification Mon, May 23, 2022 – Thu, Jun 30, 2022 This training prepares Princeton staff in both technical and non-technical roles to take the International Association of Accessibility Professionals' Certified Professional of Accessibility Core Competencies (CPACC) certification exam. The CPACC credential is IAAP's foundational certification, representing broad, cross-disciplinary… Introduction to Digital Accessibility Wed, Jun 15, 2022, 10:00 am – 12:00 pm Digital accessibility is the ability of a website, app, electronic document, or event to be easily navigated and understood by a wide range of people, including those who have disabilities. This class provides an introduction to digital accessibility and associated standards, practices, and resources. Topics include: Overview of… Accessibility Workshop Day 1: Digital Accessibility Wed, Jul 13, 2022, 8:30 am – 5:00 pm Please join us for day one of the workshop. Day one will focus on digital accessibility, and will be held over Zoom. For CPACC, WAS, and CPWA certified staff who need continuing accessibility education credits to maintain certification, it provides up to 15 hours of credits. Sessions will begin each day at 8:30 AM and end… Accessibility Workshop Day 2: Hands-on with ASL and ODS Thu, Jul 14, 2022, 8:30 am – 5:00 pm Please join us for day two of the workshop. We welcome Professor Daniel Maier, who will teach us about deaf culture, give us introductory American Sign Language lessons, and guide us in a discussion after we view the 2021 Academy Award winning film CODA. We will then visit the Office of Disability Services, where we will tour the AccessAbility… Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University