Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Digital Accessibility Search Training Accessibility Trainings On-Demand Training Videos Resources For Content Creators For Developers For Managers Accessibility Testing Multimedia Accessibility Documents Technology Procurement Accessibility Services and Labs Techniques Disabilities Assistive Technologies Elements Technologies Principles Policies Digital Accessibility Policy Procurement and Development Settlement Caption Requirements FAQs About DAS HOME / RESOURCES / Accessible Documents Harvard's Digital Accessibility Policy applies to documents posted on University Websites. Accessible documents are easier to understand and read for all of your users, not just users with disabilities. There are steps you can take, such as tagging your document with headings, being mindful of color, and using mindful formatting techniques that will make your document more accessible to more people. Key concepts for accessible documents Accessibility Check: Use available Accessibility Tools to run an accessibility check of the document as you work. Document Metadata: Add metadata information, such as Title, Author, Language. Alt Text: Ensure meaningful images have alternative text and decorative images are marked as “decorative,” if possible. Headings: Use concise headings to delineate sections of your document. Tag and order them like an outline. Color: Choose colors that provide adequate contrast and don’t rely on color alone to convey meaning. Guidance By Document Type Microsoft Word PowerPoint Google Docs Slides AbleDocs - Document Remediation Vendor Need an accessible doc fast? Submit to Harvard's preferred remediation vendor, AbleDocs. Visit harvard.abledocs.com to submit a document today. We encourage requesting a quote when you submit your document to ensure the price is within your expectations. If you have pricing questions, please reach out to us at digitalaccessibility@harvard.edu to discuss. Note: The vendor will not make modifcations to the colors within the document. As such, we recommend verifying that the document has high color contrast and is not using color alone to convey meaning. Pricing Simple Documents - Starts at $4.85/page with $25 minimum charge per document Complex Documents - Starts at $50/hour with $50 minimum charge per document Upcoming Document Training 2022 Jun 07 Creating Accessible PDFs 10:00am to 12:00pm All Training Events Digital Accessibility Services Office Hours Got accessibility questions? Not sure where to start? We're here to help! The Digital Accessibility Services (DAS) team is available to answer your questions and provide guidance and support to the Harvard community. We will be holding open office hours in a Zoom meeting room on the 2nd and 4th Fridays of each month from 10am-12pm. Upcoming DAS Office Hours ➜ Siteimprove Usability script Custom JS jquery section expander Site-wide CSS Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement