Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU > Employees > Accessibility Information for Employees Accessibility Information for Employees ACCESS FOR EMPLOYEES Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees CONTACT US Accommodations are available to staff and faculty. TU promotes an inclusive and supportive culture to help enable employees and students to be their most productive and successful selves. We Encourage Self-Identification of Health Conditions We encourage all employees to self-identify their disability with their supervisor or through University Compliance. This is important to TU’s ongoing mission toward greater inclusiveness. We care about our community and we track the things we care about, and TU strives for a culture of trust to foster inclusion. Awareness of the types of accessibility issues that exist on our campus will help us to better address any barriers and promote awareness of our campus’s needs. This self-identification is voluntary and private–information will not be shared unless you wish to request accommodations, and then it is only shared with people who need to know the information for providing the accommodations and in accordance with the ADA. There are no consequences for not self-identifying. Employees may anonymously self-disclose their condition online. This self-disclosure will not include your name and simply allows us to collect information in aggregate. Benefits of self-identification include the following: Enable employees to ask for adjustments or accommodations that can help them perform their jobs better Provide employees access to a community of support Protect employees from discrimination under the Americans with Disabilities Act Faster appropriate assistance during an emergency We also encourage self-disclosure to your supervisor. Self-disclosure is simply making someone aware that you have a disability/diagnosis, and is not necessarily formally asking for accommodations. This self-disclosure can help supervisors to: Proactively reach out about possible accommodations, supports, and adjustments Tailor trainings, meetings, communication, etc. for their employees’ needs Requests for Training University Compliance can coordinate trainings about accessibility for groups. Please contact Dr. Tawny Rigsby in University Compliance at 918-631-2334 or access@utulsa.edu. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT