Skip to main content Resources for: My KC One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Phil and Penny Knight Search Search Site Navigation People Facilities Research Innovation Academics Recruitment Events About Resources for: My KC Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Phil and Penny Knight Campus for Accelerating Scientific Impact Main navigation People Facilities Research Innovation Academics Recruitment Events About Hosseinzadeh NIH Hosseinzadeh receives NIH New Innovator Award By : Lewis Taylor The three-year grant funds research focused on generating peptides as powerful therapeutics to aid in the fight against cancer, pandemics and other diseases Parisa Hosseinzadeh Parisa Hosseinzadeh, an assistant professor at the University of Oregon’s Phil and Penny Knight Campus for Accelerating Scientific Impact, has been awarded a $2.1 million grant from the National Institutes of Health’s Director’s New Innovator Award Program for her project, “A data-driven approach towards generation of permeable peptide therapeutics.” A computational biochemist, Hosseinzadeh uses computer modeling to design synthetic peptides as potential drugs to treat challenging diseases. Hosseinzadeh’s NIH project is focused on generating peptides — small chains of amino acids, the building blocks of proteins — as powerful, novel therapeutics Peptides can address some of the limitations of the most widely used therapeutic modalities, antibodies and small molecules — and could be the solution to fighting diseases such as cancer, new pandemics, and antibiotic-resistance. “Peptides occupy a size range between antibodies and small molecules and can inherit the best of both worlds,” Hosseinzadeh said. “They can strongly bind to flat proteins as antibodies do and cross cell membranes to access intracellular targets as small molecules do.” The process of developing cell-permeable functional peptides has been challenging due to a lack of high throughput methods to screen for permeability and limitations in accurate modeling of peptide behavior in solution. Hosseinzadeh’s project proposes a transformative method to predict permeability — a novel data-driven approach that combines state-of-the-art computational techniques, such as peptide modeling and machine learning, with experimental data generation to develop methods and datasets. “The dataset generated during this work and methods we develop will be an important resource for many researchers interested in drug discovery, physics-based models of permeability, and will pave the way for the development of next generation cell-permeable peptide therapeutics.,” Hosseinzadeh said. Related Stories Hettiaratchi's 2021 Trailblazer Award Plesa's 2021 New Innovator Award QUICK LINKS Center for Translational Biomedical Research Wu Tsai Human Performance Alliance at Oregon Sign Up for Knight Campus Updates Give to the Knight Campus Knight Campus 1505 Franklin Boulevard Eugene, OR 97403-6231 Office: Knight Campus Building 1 P: 541-346-2120 accelerate@uoregon.edu Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.