Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU > Forms, Guidelines, Policies > Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional FORMS, GUIDELINES, POLICIES Accommodation Request Policy ADA Grievance Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines CONTACT US Introduction It is the responsibility of each student requesting services from the University of Tulsa to provide a comprehensive written evaluation of his/her learning disabilities. Any correspondence regarding the appropriateness or comprehensiveness of the submitted documentation will be sent to the student. It is the student’s responsibility to obtain additional information or clarification, if requested by the University. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990 and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, students with verified disabilities who are otherwise qualified to attend the University are protected from discrimination and assured equal access to educational programs. In order to establish that an individual with a disability is qualified for accommodations under the ADA, the documentation of the disability must indicate whether the disabling condition substantially limits a major life activity including learning (e.g., significantly slower reading speed). These guidelines are designed to: 1) validate a learning disability, 2) determine its impact on the student’s educational performance, 3) identify the need for accommodations, and 4) develop the appropriate accommodations to be provided. How a Learning Disability is Defined at The University of Tulsa Learning disabilities involve difficulties in processing specific tasks such as reading, listening, writing, spelling and mathematics. Consistent with the standards used by the State of Oklahoma, the University compares students’ achievement in these academic tasks with measured academic ability (IQ) using results of those standardized tests considered to be the most reliable measures available. Information-processing deficits are not necessarily associated with specific academic tasks. Therefore, information-processing deficits, in the absence of an IQ/achievement discrepancy, or low overall achievement levels, are not sufficient to qualify as a learning disability. Diagnosing Professionals’ Credentials The following professionals are considered qualified to evaluate and diagnose learning disabilities as long as they are able to provide a comprehensive psychoeducational evaluation (one which includes tests of aptitude and achievement): certified school psychologist; licensed psychologist or neuropsychologist who has training in educational testing; educational diagnostician/specialist working in conjunction with a licensed psychologist. The Report The specific reporting format is left to the professional, but the required components must be clearly presented and easily discernable. Regardless of the format used, all assessment reports must include the following information: the student’s presenting concerns; the student’s history (developmental, family, medical, psychological, educational, employment); the student’s psychoeducational assessment; the student’s psychosocial functioning; summary of findings and recommendations. In cases where evaluation or updating of current documentation is required to determine a current need for services, students will be asked to provide additional documentation. A copy of the original diagnostic documentation should be included with the current documentation, if it is available. The report is to be submitted on professional letterhead and must include the diagnosing professional’s signature, a list of appropriate certifications, and licensing information. If the above information is assembled by a multidisciplinary team, all components of the evaluation including psychological, educational and social reports should be included with the summary report of the group. A school plan (e.g., Individual Education Plan [IEP], 504 Plan, or Transition Plan) alone is not sufficient documentation to establish a student’s eligibility for accommodations and/or services. However, these plans provide important information concerning the student’s history of receiving services and must accompany the professional’s report (unless they were not developed). In cases where no IEP, 504 Plan, or Transition Report was developed, a letter must be sent from the school indicating the type of academic accommodations that were provided. Diagnosing professionals are required to use tests that are the most reliable measures of aptitude and achievement. The tests should be administered in their entirety, with clear justification of any change from standard administration (e.g., prorating scores on an IQ test). It is important that documentation highlight the component areas of the academic tasks of reading (comprehension and decoding), listening, writing (content and mechanics of grammar and spelling), or mathematics (calculation and applied problems). Since time can be an important factor for some students, please indicate the importance of time with regard to performance. Tests of Aptitude & Achievement Tests considered appropriate for assessing adolescents and adults are provided in the following list. It is not intended to be definitive or exhaustive. Aptitude Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale – Revised (WAIS-III) Woodcock-Johnson Psychoeducational Battery – Revised: Tests of Cognitive Ability Kaufman Adolescent and Adult Intelligence Test Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale (4th ed.) Wide Range Intelligence Test (WRIT) Differential Ability Scales (DAS) Achievement Scholastic Abilities Test for Adults (SATA) Stanford Test of Academic Skills Woodcock-Johnson Psychoeducational Battery – Revised: Tests of Achievement Wechsler Individual Achievement Test (WIAT) Nelson-Denny Reading Skills Test Stanford Diagnostic Mathematics Test Test of Written Language – 3 (TOWL-3) Woodcock Reading Mastery Tests – Revised Sending the Report Completed reports must be sent directly from the service provider and sent to the Center for Student Academic Success via fax at 918-631-3459, via email to csas@utulsa.edu, or sent to: Tawny Taylor Rigsby, Ph.D., Director and ADA/504 Coordinator Center for Student Academic Success 800 South Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104-3189 918-631-2315 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT