Digital Accessibility at Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Initiatives Policies & Guidelines Submenu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Quality Assurance Submenu Testing & Consultations Website Quality Assurance Tools Training Submenu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants How To... Submenu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility News Accommodations Get Help Search Search News Celebrate Global Accessibility Awareness Day with our Accessibility Challenge! May 17, 2022 May 19 is Global Accessibility Awareness Day. The day recognizes the importance of inclusion for people with disabilities and reinforces Princeton’s core values of equity and inclusion. As a campus community, we are committed to supporting accessibility in digital environments. Where you come in To celebrate… Introducing Editoria11y: Accessibility Autocorrect March 19, 2021 Author Written by John Jameson Creating highly accessible Web content is complicated, and tends to start with a lot of training. At some point the question needs to be asked: how much of this complication is because the skills are new, and how much is because the tools we provide content editors have not kept up with the expectations we place upon them? Aira Is Available for Free on Campus March 12, 2021 Aira, an augmented reality technology for people who are blind or have low vision, or who have print disabilities, is available on the central campus and remotely. Users download an app to their mobile phone, and use it to contact a live agent who describes the visual field for them. The Aira agent serves as a… Building an Accessible Virtual Community During Social Distancing April 2, 2020 Princeton maintains the same high standards for accessibility during virtual learning and working as it does on campus. Anybody struggling to access digital materials during this time should reach out for accessibility assistance. The Princeton is Recognized for its Accessibility Certification Program June 18, 2019 At the 2019 M-Enabling Summit, the Office of Information Technology's User Experience Office was recognized by the International Association of Accessibility Professional for leadership in higher education accessibility by integrating inclusion throughout the organization. Damian Sian and Mary Albert were honored for their innovative use of… a11y Reviews Resource March 4, 2019 A joint effort from Adrian Roselli and Tobie Langel called a11y.reviews is available as of January 21, 2019. This resource is a community-based site that reviews the accessibility of… MathML for Accessible Math Markup Jan. 1, 2018 In order to create semantically accurate math equations that are accessible to people of diverse abilities, it is imperative to leverage the power of MathML. MathML is a markup language that provides semantic understanding and proper syntax to assistive technologies like screen readers. Princeton's instance of the Drupal CMS now offers… Announcing the Princeton Accessibility Meetup Sept. 28, 2017 The Office of Information Technology is pleased to announce the creation of the A11Y Princeton Meetup! Purpose of the Meetup: The A11Y Princeton Meetup is dedicated to advancing the field of study for the topic of access and inclusion for people with disabilities. These monthly meetings are… Princeton Participates in COSP10 at the United Nations June 12, 2017 The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) The CRPD was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 2006. This year marks the tenth session of the Conference of States Parties to the CRPD (COSP) at UN Headquarters in New York. The Convention follows decades of work by the United Nations to… Princeton Partners with NJ Commission for Blind March 21, 2017 Princeton's training efforts in the space of web accessibility have been bolstered by participation with members from the New Jersey Commission for the Blind and Visually Impaired (CBVI). The User Experience Office offers a 4 hour Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Next page Next › Last page Last » Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University