Digital Accessibility at Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Initiatives Policies & Guidelines Submenu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Quality Assurance Submenu Testing & Consultations Website Quality Assurance Tools Training Submenu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants How To... Submenu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility News Accommodations Get Help Search Search Section Menu People Initiatives People Mary and John manage Princeton's digital accessibility initiatives, including policy development and implementation, major projects, staff development, quality assurance, campus partnerships, and this documentation site. Leadership Mary Albert, CPACC Associate Director, Digital Accessibility Office of Information Technology Mary leads the Office of Information Technology's digital accessibility program, working with members of the campus community to help ensure their information technology is accessible to people with disabilities. She also provides training to raise awareness and skills, and to prepare staff for professional accessibility certification. Mary champions accessibility wherever technology and digital information are designed and developed, acquired, and used. Mary is an active member of the accessibility community. She is co-editor of the 2020 International Association of Accessibility Professionals (IAAP) Certified Professional in Accessibility Core Concepts (CPACC) Body of Knowledge. She also organizes the A11yPrinceton Meetup, which explores accessibility, inclusive design, and assistive technology. Before focusing full-time on accessibility, Mary supported it while leading OIT's User Experience Office. She has over 20 years' experience in human-centered design, including teaching students with disabilities, training, service design, and project management. She has degrees in French, Education, and Instructional Technologies, and holds certifications in accessibility and project management. Mary lives on a farm in Hopewell, New Jersey, and enjoys horseback riding and growing trees. Implementation Rachel Busnardo Training and Outreach Program Manager, Digital Accessibility Office of Information Technology Rachel is the Training and Outreach Manager for the Office of Information Technology’s digital accessibility program. She helps empower the campus community to create digital environments and materials that are accessible to all people. Formerly the Digital Accessibility Training Coordinator at the University of Colorado Boulder, she loves training people how to create digital environments and materials with an accessibility mindset. At Princeton, she creates training and resources to help onboard new users to DubBot, Princeton’s website accessibility monitoring tool. She also manages outreach efforts throughout the institution and beyond by spreading awareness about digital accessibility, helping learners establish a growth mindset, and transferring new digital accessibility skill sets to learners. Rachel has a background in the creative arts, receiving an MFA in Creative Writing with an emphasis in poetry from the CU Boulder. For several years after her MFA, she worked as a lecturer in poetics and literature. She uses her experience as a lecturer in a creative field to help her create training programs in tech that don’t feel too techy. In 2021, Rachel graduated with a second MA in Learning Design and Technology with an emphasis in adult learning from the University of Colorado Denver. Her research focused on digital accessibility and universal design for learning in higher education, which is where her digital accessibility journey began. John Jameson Digital Accessibility Developer, Web Development Services Office of Information Technology John leads Princeton University's testing and remediation efforts, to help ensure the University's designers, developers and writers create content that is easy to read and easy to adapt to the full range of assistive technologies. Embedded in the Office of Information Technology's Web Development Services team, he works to mentor his colleagues; testing prototypes, teaching ARIA and JavaScript techniques and demonstrating new ways to automatically and manually detect potential issues. His background in digital publishing has also helped him bridge the proverbial gap between system architects and content editors, seeking places where changes to editorial workflows can reduce the need for training and proofreading by making better choices intuitive, self-reinforcing and self correcting. These efforts are given back to the community where possible; his team has already open-sourced the Editoria11y Accessibility Checker and the Decorative Image Widget. Having worked at Princeton for more than 15 years, John is a Certified Professional in Web Accessibility and a Certified Associate in Project Management. As an alumnus of the University's Department of Classics, he can confirm that Lorem Ipsum is not really Latin. Governance Office of Institutional Equity & Diversity Michele Minter, Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity, coordinates Princeton’s commitment to diversity, inclusion and fair treatment of all members of our community. Her staff facilitate strategic institutional change through structural tools including policies, funding, staffing, and project incubation and implementation, and manage Princeton’s efforts to prevent and respond to bias, discrimination, harassment and sexual misconduct, and promote equitable access for people with disabilities. Shawn Maxam, Associate Provost for Diversity and Inclusion, leads strategic partnerships and projects associated with accessibility, campus climate, academic departments, data analysis, history and sense of place. Office of Information Technology Jay Dominick, Vice President for Information Technology and Chief Information Office, oversees IT planning and governance for the University, and is responsible for overseeing Princeton’s academic and administrative systems and the information technology infrastructure that supports them. OIT provides a robust infrastructure for campus computing, deploys technologies that enable administrative excellence and academic innovation in teaching, learning, research, and scholarship. Mary Albert, Associate Director for Digital Accessibility, develops strategy, policies and guidelines, leads interdepartmental efforts, designs and delivers training, and creates, monitors, and reports on digital accessibility initiatives. Digital Accessibility Advisory Group The Digital Accessibility Advisory Group provides guidance to the Office of the Provost and Office of Information Technology to help ensure the success of the University’s digital accessibility efforts and their alignment with Princeton’s institutional values for diversity, equity, and inclusion. By focusing on growth and maturation of digital accessibility efforts, members of the group advise on decisions, bring forth concerns and insights, and propose solutions that affect their organizations and the institution at large. Group members also ensure the support of and coordination between their offices. The group reports to the Institutional Equity Planning Group. It is sponsored by the Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity and the Vice President for Information Technology, and advised by the Office of General Counsel. It is chaired by Shawn Maxam and Mary Albert. Members of the Digital Accessibility Advisory Group Name Department Role Jean Durbin Office of Finance and Treasury Member Liz Erickson Office of Disability Services Member Mona Fixdal McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning Member Christian Knoebel Office of Communications Member Donna Maywar Institutional Equity and Diversity Member Jon Stroop University Library Member Kimberly Tiedeken Office of Human Resources Member Shawn Maxam Institutional Equity and Diversity Co-chair Mary Albert Office of Information Technology Co-chair Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University