Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Accessible KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About ADA RCEA Select to follow link People Our Mission Contact Accessibility Resources Select to follow link Planning Accessible Events Emergency Evacuation Procedures Content Accessibility ADA Compliance Select to follow link Architectural Barriers Committee Transition Plan Training & Events Select to follow link ADA 30 - Nothing About Us Without Us - A Virtual Celebration With Judith Heumann Select to follow link Event schedule Panelists and Moderators Event media Mentoring Circles for Disability Inclusion Program Training Materials National Disability Employment Awareness Month Events #DisabilityArt Council for Disability Inclusion Panel Intro to Audio Description Accommodations Select to follow link Academic Accommodations Employment Accommodations Housing Resources Parking Special Diets Emotional Support Animal Jaylift Content Accessibility Select to follow link Ally for LMS and Web Documents Select to follow link Scanned Documents Word Documents Excel Documents PowerPoint Presentations PDF Documents Email Video Select to follow link Captioning General Process for Captioning Approved Captioning Vendors YouTube Videos Transcripts Audio Description Web Pages Select to follow link Alt Text for Images Correct use of Headers Links Tables Focus Lists Color Considerations Accessible Forms Resources Select to follow link Campus Resources Community Resources Edwards Campus Resources Local Employment Resources Statewide Resources Parent & Visitor Resources Maps ADA RCEA Best Practice Guidelines for Planning an Accessible Event ADA RCEA Mental Health Resource Guide Videos Select to follow link ADA Impact Videos Hawk Route Videos Past Videos Community Mental Health Supports Select to follow link Campus Resources Community Resources Faculty Resources Mental Health Information Mental Health On Campus Resources for Times of Crisis Policies Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Accessible KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Resources Edwards Campus Resources On Campus Resources Academic Achievement and Access Center Click to expand Offers services and programs to assist students in their academic success. Academic Achievement and Access Center KU Edwards Student Services Welcome Center Click to expand Student Services at KU Edwards provides assistance to help you meet your academic goals by offering convenient and accessible services. We partner with Lawrence campus to ensure that the services you need are available here in Overland Park and our other regional locations. Campus Map Click to expand KU Edwards is conveniently located at 127th and Quivera Road in Overland Park. Accessible parking is located at each building entrance. Students seeking more information on campus accessibility features can contact the Student Services Welcome Center at kuecsuccess@ku.edu. Guests using our campus for external events and rentals can contact the KUEC Events team at kuecevents@ku.edu. Campus Map & Directions KU Libraries Click to expand The University of Kansas Libraries is committed to providing equitable access to information to all faculty, staff, students and members of the KU community. The University of Kansas Library services KU Edwards Campus Psychological Clinic Click to expand The KU Edwards Campus Psychological Clinic (KUEC-PC) supports students at the University of Kansas Edwards Campus in Overland Park. Mental health is fundamental to academic success, and the KUEC-PC makes low-cost, outpatient therapies, assessments and crisis care accessible to KU students in the Kansas City Metro area. Additional KU Resources My Resource Connection Click to expand Connects individuals needing assistance with resources that can help meet their needs (groceries, clothing, housing, health care, counseling, transportation, employment, emotional support, etc.). There are many organizations in the greater Kansas City area that are able to address these needs and this tool allows for easy searching. My Resource Connection is maintained and hosted by the government of Johnson County Kansas. Significant contributions of data come from United Way 211 of Greater Kansas City, various departments within Johnson County government, and the Unified Government of Wyandotte County and Kansas City, KS. My Resource Connection KU Edwards Student Services Welcome Center Click to expand Parent/Spouse Resources Student Services at KU Edwards provides assistance to all seeking information about KU Edwards and KU services. Contact the welcome center at 913-897-8539 or email kuecsuccess@ku.edu for more information. See the full parent/visitor resources page for more. ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility Click to expand Additional KU Resources This office is responsible for promoting an accessible and inclusive campus. This site contains information and links for employees to learn about employment accommodations, campus accessibility, and available accessibility-related training. See Lawrence campus resource page for more. Accessible KU Report Barriers Report Barriers Carruth-O'Leary Hall 1246 W Campus Rd Lawrence, KS 66045 accessibility@ku.edu 785-864-4946 instagram twitter Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.