Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU University Disability Resources COVID-19 Resources LDC Portal FAQs Accommodation Statement About Search General Inquiries Student Accommodations Workplace Accommodations Effective Communication Ergonomics Housing Service and Assistance Animals Parking & Transportation Grievance Procedure Digital Access Academic Alternative Format Assistive Tech Lending Captioning Inclusive Content Creation and Delivery Innovation Pilot Projects Usability Testing Campus Access Campus Map Getting Around Construction and Renovation Event Planning At the Event Emergency Planning Publicity Materials Space Selection Tools & Resources Newsletter Student Coordinators Vendors & Service Providers Ombuds Professional Organizations Frequently Asked Questions HOME / About Harvard University Disability Resources (UDR) welcomes students, faculty, staff and visitors with disabilities. UDR values disability as integral to our rich diversity and provides leadership to University efforts to ensure an accessible, inclusive welcoming learning and working environment for individuals with disabilities while complying with federal and state regulations. UDR serves as a central resource on disability-related information, procedures and services for the University community and provides expertise in the development, implementation, and acquisition for best and promising disability-related University practices, procedures and resources. Our Team: Kate Upatham (she/her), Director and 504 Coordinator Kate Katulak (she/her), Associate Director Michelle Hermans (she/her), Senior Accessibility Consultant Dorian Meyette (she/her), Accessibility Consultant Kurt Mueller (he/his), Accessibility Consultant Adrian Hatton (they/them), Staff Assistant More information here Contact Us: Until further notice, University Disability Resources (UDR) is available for in person meetings by appointment only from Monday – Friday, 9am to 5pm. For general inquiries about available services and procedures to obtain accommodations for students, faculty, staff and visitors of the University we may be contacted at: Email: disabilityresources@harvard.edu Phone: 617-495-1859 TTY: 617-496-0466 Fax: 617-495-8520 Our office is located at the Smith Campus Center, Suite 900, 1350 Massachusetts Ave. Our mailing address is: University Disability Resources Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Suite 900 1350 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions to our space: The Smith Campus Center is located at 1350 Massachusetts Ave. When entering from the Mass Ave side, proceed straight through two sets of doors, continue straight across the lobby space and proceed through next set of doors. A few paces ahead, there will be Security Desk at your right. Security staff will request to see an ID for sign in and will provide a printed sticker for you to wear. They will open elevator vestibule gates for entry. Elevator buttons are located on both sides of the elevator lobby. Take the elevator to the 9th floor. Exit elevator lobby to hallway space, then turn right down long hallway and proceed to end. You are now at Suite 900. Welcome! About Contact Us Harvard University Disability Resources Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Suite 900. | 617-495-1859 | TTY: 617-496-0466 | Fax: 617-495-8520 | disabilityresources@harvard.edu| Directions to our office Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement