Skip to main content Web Accessibility at Penn Overview Digital Accessibility Policy News and Updates Testing and Evaluation Testing for Accessibility Automated Testing Manual Testing Design and Usability Testing Resources Resources FAQ Captioning For Developers For Faculty For Content Creators For Designers Working with Vendors Accessible Documents Training and Events Calendar Past Events Need Help? Get Help Report issues or Give Feedback Schedule Training or Consultation Web Accessibility at Penn The University of Pennsylvania is committed to making our technology accessible to all people. Web accessibility is a shared, continuous responsibility for members of the Penn community involved in the development, creation, publishing, or sharing of digital resources. Penn websites and content are accessed and used by diverse people within the U.S. and around the world. Some users have visual, hearing, or cognitive impairments that create challenges in accessing website content, and require the use of assistive technologies, such as screen readers and text-only browsers. Other users of Penn websites may be using outmoded technology, or have very slow connection speeds. As such, it is imperative that Penn ensures its online presence and content remain accessible to the widest array of users. Report an Issues or Give Feedback Please alert us immediately of any problems you encounter or feedback you have on our sites. Report Issue or Give Feedback Form FAQ Get answers to commonly asked accessibility questions. Testing for Accessibility Start testing your site or application. Need Help? Get assistance or support for all things accessibility. Recent News Update to Penn's Digital Accessibility Policy Post date: Mon, 04/04/2022 - 2:56 PM We’re writing to you today to give you an important (and exciting!) update to Penn’s Digital Accessibility Pol Seats available for IAAP membership Post date: Wed, 05/19/2021 - 8:31 PM We’re excited to announce our recent membership to the International Association of Accessibility Professionals (IAAP). Update on captioning tools/services Post date: Fri, 03/19/2021 - 3:21 PM We are happy to announce that closed captioning is available on Penn's instances of Zoom, Teams, BlueJeans, and BlueJeans 2021 IT Staff Convention Post date: Fri, 03/19/2021 - 3:04 PM Penn's 15th IT Staff Convention will be taking place on Wednesday, March 24, and Thursday, March 25, 2021. Welcome to the new Accessibility Website! Post date: Wed, 07/15/2020 - 2:10 PM In our continued effort to make Penn a more digitally inclusive environment, the Accessibility team has been hard at work View all news No events are scheduled at this time. View all events Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help ©2021 University of Pennsylvania