Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Digital Accessibility Search Training Accessibility Trainings On-Demand Training Videos Resources For Content Creators For Developers For Managers Accessibility Testing Multimedia Accessibility Documents Technology Procurement Accessibility Services and Labs Techniques Disabilities Assistive Technologies Elements Technologies Principles Policies Digital Accessibility Policy Procurement and Development Settlement Caption Requirements FAQs About DAS HOME / Resources This section contains resources to support accessible web content creation and development. Essentials for Content Creators Guidelines and resources to make your content accessible. Explore resources for Content Creators Essentials for Developers Best Practices and guides for making your applications and tools broadly accessible. Explore resources for Developers Multimedia Accessibility Explore accessibility practices for captions, transcripts, audio description, and social media. Learn more about multimedia accessibility Accessible Emails Guidelines and recommendations to help ensure your message comes through clearly to your audience. Design and compose accessible emails Accessibility for Managers Suggested practices to help you prioritize accessibility within your team. Explore resources for Managers Working with Vendors When you use a vendor to purchase digital products, there should be an agreement that the products are accessible. Learn more about the procurement process and contract riders Accessibility Testing Tools and Practices Check the accessibility of your website with automated tools such as Siteimprove, and explore manual techniques to ensure your content is accessible. Learn how to check accessibility Accessible Documents Guidance on creating accessible Microsoft Word and PowerPoint documents, as well as Google Docs and Slides. Browse document resources Glossary Not sure what a term means? This glossary provides definitions and resource links for words and terminology often used with accessibility. Browse the Glossary Accessibility Services and Labs at Harvard Digital Accessibility Services (DAS) As part of Harvard University Information Technology, DAS offers training, consultation, and resources on accessibility for content creators and developers. DAS also maintains this website (accessibility.huit.harvard.edu). Meet the DAS team Upcoming trainings and office hours Digital Accessibility Liaisons (DAL) The network of DALs coordinates local efforts, facilitates training, and monitors progress. At least one DAL has been appointed to represent each school and administrative unit. View the list of DALs Browse the DAL Portal User Research Center (URC) The URC lab offers consultation in user-centered design and technology demonstrations, and hosts events on topics relating to user experience and accessibility. Learn more about the URC University Disability Resources (UDR) UDR provides leadership and guidance on university best practices, employee disability accommodations, planning accessible events, finding accessibility vendors, and consultation on physical access or renovations, while ensuring compliance with federal and state regulations. Learn more about UDR Siteimprove Usability script Custom JS jquery section expander Site-wide CSS Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement