Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Accessible IT Toggle the sub-menu Assistive Listening Systems Assistive Technology Sensus Access Web Accessibility Toggle the sub-menu On-Campus Web Accessibility Resources WCAG 2.0 Checklist Web Accessibility Testing Tools Campus Access Toggle the sub-menu Dining on Campus Inclement Weather Information for Faculty and Staff Information for Students Information for Visitors Library Resources Report a Physical Barrier Request an Emergency Evacuation Plan Campus Events Disability Inclusion Toggle the sub-menu Inclusion Campaign Profiles Be An Ally Event Planning Toggle the sub-menu Accessible Meeting and Event Checklist CART & Interpreter Resources Emergency Procedures Event Publicity and Pre-registration Presentation of Content Room Selection and Set-up Staff Awareness and Sensitivity Strategic Plan Contact Us Accessibility Information Accessible IT Toggle the sub-menu Assistive Listening Systems Assistive Technology Sensus Access Web Accessibility Toggle the sub-menu On-Campus Web Accessibility Resources WCAG 2.0 Checklist Web Accessibility Testing Tools Campus Access Toggle the sub-menu Dining on Campus Inclement Weather Information for Faculty and Staff Information for Students Information for Visitors Library Resources Report a Physical Barrier Request an Emergency Evacuation Plan Campus Events Disability Inclusion Toggle the sub-menu Inclusion Campaign Profiles Be An Ally Event Planning Toggle the sub-menu Accessible Meeting and Event Checklist CART & Interpreter Resources Emergency Procedures Event Publicity and Pre-registration Presentation of Content Room Selection and Set-up Staff Awareness and Sensitivity Strategic Plan Contact Us Campus Access HomeCampus AccessInclement Weather Inclement Weather Inclement weather often disrupts and delays travel to and around campus. Clearing the snow and ice from the 15 miles of roads, 61 miles of walkways and 114 acres of parking lots on the Cornell campus is a big and difficult job for the Grounds Department. They work diligently to make travel safe for our community during the winter months. The university assists persons with disabilities that affect mobility who may experience difficulty getting to their worksite or class during inclement weather. Inclement Weather Plans are a method used by the ADA Coordinator for Maintenance Management to inform the Grounds Department of the times and paths of travel of persons with disabilities and to prioritize snow and ice removal in these locations and times to the greatest extent possible. For more information about Inclement Weather Plans, please direct questions to the appropriate office. Employees: Please take this survey and submit it to the Office of Workforce Policy and Labor Relations at equalopportunity@cornell.edu Students: Please complete this form and submit it to Student Disability Services at sds_cu@cornell.edu Additional suggestions in handling the challenges of inclement weather. Understand the university’s flextime policy and have a discussion with your supervisor prior to needing to use it. Identify parameters in which you would like to use your ‘time away from work’ for inclement weather reasons. Know who your facility coordinator is and let them know what your access needs are to your building, your path of travel to the bus stop, or walkway to your car during inclement weather. Identify a person in your workplace who can assist you if you need help to walk to the bus stop/your car or help you clear your car of snow and/or ice. In an emergency when you aren’t able to remove the snow that is around your vehicle, contact the Cornell University Grounds Department at (607) 254-1657 and ask for assistance. Callers may have to wait until a staff person is available. Faculty, staff and students with disabilities can use the following websites to assist them knowing the weather and any special condition information about closing and cancellation information. CUInfo: lists university closings, special events that impact traffic and parking, and links to other resources, such as current weather information. IthacaNet: maintains a closing and cancellations page for the Ithaca area. SpecialConditions-L: For notification of road closures, construction delays, or other unusual events on campus. To subscribe, send an e-mail message to: SpecialConditions-L-request@cornell.edu. The body of the message should read, “join” (without the quotes). SchoolClosings-L: If a school is closing, you’ll receive an e-mail with the name of that school in the subject line. To subscribe, send an e-mail message to: School-Closing-L-request@cornell.edu. The body of the message should read, “join” (without the quotes). Visit Next: Request an Emergency Evacuation Plan Dining on Campus Information for Faculty and Staff COVID-19 Accessibility Information for Employees Information for Students COVID-19 Accessibility Information for Students Inclement Weather Information for Visitors Library Resources Report a Physical Barrier Resources Cornell's Commitment to Diversity Emergency Evacuation Procedures Responding to Bias and Discrimination Sensus Access for Accessible Documents Workplace Accommodations and FAQ Find accessible routes, entrances and parking Cornell University©2022University PrivacyWeb Accessibility Assistance Hosted by CampusPress