Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU > Campus Access Committee Campus Access Committee ACCESSIBILITY @ TU CONTACT US The mission of the Campus Access Committee is to advocate for accessibility, inclusion, and non-discrimination across all campus areas related specifically to disability. The CAC shares responsibility for helping to identify challenges to TU’s compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Rehabilitation Act (Section 504), supporting the implementation of TU’s disability access and inclusion strategic planning process, and providing leadership and advocacy about disability access and inclusion. The Campus Access Committee reviews and makes recommendations for policies, plans, practices, and programming. The CAC may engage in drafting and recommending policies and documents, conducting surveys to evaluate accessibility and disability inclusion, sponsoring or promoting education and activities about disability inclusion, and other activities that raise awareness and address issues about accessibility. The Campus Access Committee is an advisory committee comprised of members from across campus areas: Student Access, Counseling Center, Health Center, Academic Colleges and Faculty, Student Affairs, Human Resources, Facilities, Security, Parking and Transportation, Athletics, Housing and Dining, Veterans Affairs, Academic and Learning Technology, Student Success, Campus Recreation, Environmental Health and Safety, Information Technology, Admissions, Marketing and Communication, and University Compliance. Student members and students from D-CARES (Disability Connections, Advocacy, Resources, Education and Support) also serve on the Campus Access Committee. For information or to volunteer for Subcommittees, please contact: Student Programming: Abby Boehning, Chair Physical Spaces: Amy Culwell and Anita O’Daniel, Chairs Awareness Campaigning: Abby Boehning and David Kobel, Chairs Faculty and Staff Training: Tawny Rigsby, Chair Accessibility Web Content: Trisha Salas, Chair Strategic Planning: Tawny Rigsby, Chair If anyone is aware of an issue related to access on campus, please contact University Compliance at access@utulsa.edu. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT