Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Digital Accessibility Search Training Accessibility Trainings On-Demand Training Videos Resources For Content Creators For Developers For Managers Accessibility Testing Multimedia Accessibility Documents Technology Procurement Accessibility Services and Labs Techniques Disabilities Assistive Technologies Elements Technologies Principles Policies Digital Accessibility Policy Procurement and Development Settlement Caption Requirements FAQs About DAS HOME / RESOURCES / Accessibility Services and Labs at Harvard As a member of the Harvard community, you have access to offices, labs, and services that can assist you throughout every step of the accessibility process. Whether you're working to create accessible digital content, test products with real users, find information about accessible events, or if you have general questions about accessibility, reach out to one of these offices to find the support you need. Digital Accessibility Services (DAS) As part of Harvard University Information Technology, DAS supports the Harvard community in making sure that everyone has the opportunity to access the university’s knowledge, ideas, and resources. DAS offers training, consultation, and resources on accessibility for content creators and developers. DAS also maintains this website (accessibility.huit.harvard.edu). Email digitalaccessibility@harvard.edu for questions regarding digital accessibility, Harvard's Digital Accessibility Policy, trainings, consultations, and resources. Meet the DAS team Upcoming Trainings and Office Hours User Research Center (URC) The URC at Harvard Library offers equipment and space to conduct usability testing, user interviews, focus groups, and digital accessibility reviews. The URC lab space is available by appointment only for in-person testing and consulting services, and remote services are offered by email and Zoom. Visit the URC’s website to learn more about services available, attend workshops and events, and find additional resources for UX and digital accessibility. Contact Main Phone: (617) 496-5272 Email: libraryux@harvard.edu University Disability Resources (UDR) UDR provides leadership and guidance on university best practices, employee disability accommodations, planning accessible events, finding accessibility vendors, and consultation on physical access or renovations, while ensuring compliance with federal and state regulations. Visit UDR Digital Accessibility Liaisons (DAL) The network of DALs coordinates local efforts, facilitates training, and monitors progress. At least one DAL has been appointed to represent each school and administrative unit. View the list of DALs Browse the DAL Portal Siteimprove Usability script Custom JS jquery section expander Site-wide CSS Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement