Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Digital Accessibility Report Report a Web Accessibility Concern ➜ Search Training Accessibility Trainings On-Demand Training Videos Resources For Content Creators For Developers For Managers Accessibility Testing Multimedia Accessibility Documents Technology Procurement Accessibility Services and Labs Techniques Disabilities Assistive Technologies Elements Technologies Principles Policies Digital Accessibility Policy Procurement and Development Settlement Caption Requirements FAQs About DAS HOME / About Digital Accessibility Services Harvard is committed to making its digital information and resources more easily available to those who need them. Digital Accessibility Services (DAS) supports the Harvard community in making sure that everyone has the opportunity to access the university’s knowledge, ideas, and resources. DAS offers training, consultation, and resources on accessibility for content creators and developers. Email digitalaccessibility@harvard.edu for questions regarding digital accessibility, Harvard's Digital Accessibility Policy, trainings, consultations, and resources. Kenton Doyle Director, Harvard Web Publishing I have been working on the web at Harvard since 2004. My experience includes web/UX strategy and consulting, service delivery, operations, project and program management. In my early days, I did a lot of project and support work - building things, inventorying, tracking and migrating things, getting to know different types of clients, technologies and working across functional teams. I love, love, love being a practitioner. Now, I help set the direction and align our offerings with HUIT's strategy and Harvard's needs. Our newest team members are focused on making Harvard's content more accessible and breaking down barriers to digital entry. One of the best parts of my job is promoting our terrific team and showing off the amazing things that we produce and help make accessible. When not working I enjoy spending time with my family, sports and biking. Contact Information kenton_doyle@harvard.edu Kyle Shachmut Assistant Director, Digital Accessibility Services I have been advancing digital inclusion at Harvard University since 2015, providing strategic direction to digital accessibility efforts across central administration and the schools. One of the best parts of working on accessibility at Harvard is collaborating with amazingly talented colleagues and partnering to make sure that the teaching and research mission of the university are available to everyone, including people with disabilities. Before joining DAS upon its founding in summer 2019, I worked on integrating accessibility into online learning experiences through a universal design approach at HarvardX and later on digital access from within University Disability Resources. I enjoy the intersection of innovative technology, digital inclusion, higher education policy, and related research. Beyond Harvard, I find it valuable to learn from and share with others who undertake similar work and enjoy facilitating such conversations as Co-chair of the EDUCAUSE IT Accessibility Community Group. Contact Information kyle_shachmut@harvard.edu Rubaiyet Alam Digital Accessibility Developer Before joining Harvard University I worked as a Web and Mobile Accessibility tester in several companies for the past 5 years. I’m very dedicated to creating awareness for Web Accessibility. At Harvard University my goal is to improve the usability of digital content while putting accessibility guidelines front and center. I graduated from Temple University in Philadelphia, and I am planning to finish my MBA soon. I’m excited and honored to join the Harvard University Digital Accessibility Services (DAS) team which is filled with a lot of talented people with massive experience. I’m looking forward to being challenged and growing into my new role as a Digital Accessibility Developer. Contact Information rubaiyet_alam@harvard.edu Andy Hollenhorst Digital Accessibility Consultant I came to Harvard from Sallie Mae bank, where I worked as a user experience researcher and accessibility lead. Before that I worked in a content strategy role at TripAdvisor. I hold a M.S. in Experiential Education from Minnesota State University, Mankato, and a dual MBA/M.S. in Human Factors in Info Design from Bentley University. Contact Information andy_hollenhorst@harvard.edu Derek Jackson Digital Accessibility Developer Before becoming a Digital Accessibility Developer I worked at Harvard Business Publishing as the Associate Director of Content Production where I supervised the production of Higher Ed content. As the AD of Content Production I infused accessibility into our production process and worked hard to spread this mindset across Higher Ed through policy, guidelines, outreach and advocacy. I have an M.S. in Library and Information Science and an M.A. in Liberal Studies from City University New York. I am very excited to join the Digital Accessibility Services team and contribute to the continued improvement of digital accessibility at Harvard and to learn from my colleagues. Contact Information derek_jackson@harvard.edu Erich Manser Digital Accessibility Consultant As an accessibility professional and disability rights advocate, I believe in a user-focused approach to ensuring access-for-all in technology. When we understand the different barriers people face, it makes accessibility real, and allows us to get beyond just the standards or simple compliance. With 17 years working in accessibility at global corporations, it is my honor to join Harvard in leading by accessible example, as a member of the talented new Digital Accessibility Services (DAS) team. Contact Information erich_manser@harvard.edu Janell Sims Digital Accessibility Consultant During my time at Harvard, I’ve guided diverse teams through digital transformations and advocated for user-focused, accessible experiences in everything we do - in every communication and on every platform. I’ve built long-lasting communities of support and driven engagement and collaboration at every level, from administration to stakeholders to leadership. I’m excited to be a part of an important new initiative to incorporate the principles of accessibility and inclusive design into all aspects of the digital experience at Harvard. Contact Information janell_sims@harvard.edu Jamie Spear Digital Accessibility Consultant I joined the Digital Accessibility Services team after working for several years with Harvard University Disability Resources. My background is in teaching and training around accessibility concepts and best practices to foster an inclusive community experience at Harvard. Contact Information jamie_spear@harvard.edu Curtis Wilcox Digital Accessibility Developer Before Digital Accessibility Services (DAS) was created, I represented FAS in the HUIT Accessibility Working Group and the Digital Accessibility Working Group for the University Accessibility Committee. My IT career started over twenty years ago at the Eastman School of Music and has continued at Harvard since 2005. While working, I earned a Master's degree in IT from Rochester Institute of Technology and have continued my studies in Computer Science and Digital Media at the Harvard Extension School. My other interests include cinema, theater, international travel, and cats. Contact Information curtis_wilcox@harvard.edu Hunter Wright Digital Accessibility Support Analyst Originally from Myrtle Beach, SC, I have lived near Boston, MA for the last 20 years. I have 10+ years of Supply Chain Management experience ranging from logistics to procurement to contract negotiation, mainly in the Health Care setting. In entering my third year at Harvard University and the Digital Accessibility realm, I look forward to furthering my knowledge and skills in providing accessible training and technology to all of those I come in contact with. My other interests consist of spending time with my fiance, Ilene, and 5-year-old Australian Cattle Dog, Asher, travelling, fishing, and collecting sneakers and tattoos. Contact Information hunter_wright@harvard.edu Report Report a Web Accessibility Concern ➜ Upcoming DAS Events 2022 Jun 06 Digital Accessibility Level II: Orientation 11:00am to 11:50am 2022 Jun 07 Creating Accessible PDFs 10:00am to 12:00pm 2022 Jun 09 Web Accessibility for Developers 10:00am All DAS events Digital Accessibility Digest - Issue Archive February 2022 - Create Accessible Media December 2021 - Check if your content is accessible October 2021 - Hosting Accessible Meetings August 2021 - Creating Accessible Documents June 2021 - Welcome to the Digital Accessibility Newsletter Siteimprove Usability script Custom JS jquery section expander Site-wide CSS Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement