Digital Accessibility at Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Initiatives Policies & Guidelines Submenu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Quality Assurance Submenu Testing & Consultations Website Quality Assurance Tools Training Submenu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants How To... Submenu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility News Accommodations Get Help Search Search Section Menu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility PDF Documents Ask yourself: "must this content be in the PDF format?" Desktop users who are not blind and do not have low vision are often fond of PDFs because they provide a fixed, print-like design and are slightly more difficult to edit than other formats...but they usually provide a poor experience for all other users: If the visual layout has not been annotated with structure tags, screen reader users often hear fragments of columns and tables read out of order, and cannot locate topic headings and bookmarks. If the field labels, reading order and tab order have not been manually configured on PDF forms, keyboard and screen reader users often find them difficult or impossible to fill out. Mobile and screen magnifier users must zoom in and then repeatedly scroll horizontally/diagonally in a Z pattern to read long lines or follow columns. The PDF-on-a-Phone Dilemma Zoom out and Squint? Zoom In and Z-scroll? Alternatives to PDFs Remediating PDFs to be compatible with assistive devices is difficult, time-consuming and often expensive. There are three ways to avoid this expense. In descending order of preference: Delete the PDF: convert the content into Web pages or editable documents. Only provide the PDF as the "printable" download to a Web pages or editable document. Provide a Web page or editable document as an "accessible" alternative to the PDF. Note that the content of accessible version must be truly equivalent to satisfy ADA requirements, including reproductions or text equivalents for images, charts and graphs. For complex documents, this may cost more than remediating the PDF. If you must provide the content exclusively as a PDF... Follow the content accessibility checklist when creating the document. Send the document to one of the University's document remediation vendors (login required) to be professionally tagged for screen readers. Related links Accessible PDF Authoring Guides (Section 508) Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University