Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Accessible KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About ADA RCEA Select to follow link People Our Mission Contact Accessibility Resources Select to follow link Planning Accessible Events Emergency Evacuation Procedures Content Accessibility ADA Compliance Select to follow link Architectural Barriers Committee Transition Plan Training & Events Select to follow link ADA 30 - Nothing About Us Without Us - A Virtual Celebration With Judith Heumann Select to follow link Event schedule Panelists and Moderators Event media Mentoring Circles for Disability Inclusion Program Training Materials National Disability Employment Awareness Month Events #DisabilityArt Council for Disability Inclusion Panel Intro to Audio Description Accommodations Select to follow link Academic Accommodations Employment Accommodations Housing Resources Parking Special Diets Emotional Support Animal Jaylift Content Accessibility Select to follow link Ally for LMS and Web Documents Select to follow link Scanned Documents Word Documents Excel Documents PowerPoint Presentations PDF Documents Email Video Select to follow link Captioning General Process for Captioning Approved Captioning Vendors YouTube Videos Transcripts Audio Description Web Pages Select to follow link Alt Text for Images Correct use of Headers Links Tables Focus Lists Color Considerations Accessible Forms Resources Select to follow link Campus Resources Community Resources Edwards Campus Resources Local Employment Resources Statewide Resources Parent & Visitor Resources Maps ADA RCEA Best Practice Guidelines for Planning an Accessible Event ADA RCEA Mental Health Resource Guide Videos Select to follow link ADA Impact Videos Hawk Route Videos Past Videos Community Mental Health Supports Select to follow link Campus Resources Community Resources Faculty Resources Mental Health Information Mental Health On Campus Resources for Times of Crisis Policies Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Accessible KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Community Mental Health Supports Mental Health Information "A mental illness is a medical condition that disrupts a person's thinking, feeling, mood, ability to relate to others and daily functioning. Just as diabetes is a disorder of the pancreas, mental illnesses are medical conditions that often result in a diminished capacity for coping with the ordinary demands of life. Serious mental illnesses include major depression, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), panic disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and borderline personality disorder. The good news about mental illness is that recovery is possible. Mental illnesses can affect persons of any age, race, religion or income. Mental illnesses are not the result of personal weakness, lack of character or poor upbringing. Mental illnesses are treatable. Most people diagnosed with a serious mental illness can experience relief from their symptoms by actively participating in an individual treatment plan." About Mental Illness - National Alliance on Mental Illness Douglas County Behavioral Health Website Creating a Self-Care Plan Self-Care is the action made to preserve and improve one one's own mental health as defined by the Mental Health First Aid Program Offered through Bert Nash. The following information is taught in this program and shared here. It is time to focus on self-care when an individual experiences negative feelings or thoughts related to their own personal experiences. Self-care is comprised of any combination of actions focused in the following eight areas - Emotional - activities that involve the senses. Spiritual - creating a quiet place for introspection, solitude, and contemplation. Intellectual - entertaining the mind through reading, logic games, or relaxation. Physical - engage the body through exercise, healthy eating habits, and movement. Environmental - interact with the outside world in some way, take a walk in the park or grow a plant. Financial - budget expenses to ensure financial security. Occupational - manage work/ life balance and make friends with your co-workers. Community/ Social - engage with the community you have, talk with a partner, friend, or coworker when feeling overwhelmed. A healthy well-balanced self-care plan will include multiple of the above areas, but it is important to work with what you specifically can handle in the moment. If that means only using one, that is fine, work to a place where you can care for yourself more holistically, but don't expect to start there. How to Find a Therapist Finding a therapist is one of the most widely recognized treatments of mental health changes. However, finding the best therapist for you can be challenging. Here are some helpful tips to find a good fit. Do you have health insurance that covers therapy? If yes, check which providers in your area accept your insurance and then research those therapists to find out which therapist is the best for you. If no, please know that therapy ranges in price and there are multiple different options for all budgets. What identities do you hold that are important for your therapist to understand? Many therapists have specialties regarding mental health condition, experience, or treatment type, but the most important specialty therapists have are their understanding of identities held by their patients. When searching for therapists check to make sure they are identity friendly for any identities you hold that are important for your therapist to understand. How do you know it's time to go see a therapist? There is never a wrong time to see a therapist, if it is something that interests you and something that you can budget, try it out. If you are noticing more experiences in line with mental health changes than you've previously experienced that might be a sign that it could be more important to seek some sort of treatment plan to prevent a future crisis. The COVID-19 pandemic has placed lots of unexpected stress on everyone, Counseling and Psychological Services created this webpage for tips on coping with the added stress. Where do I search for therapists - is there a list? One of the easiest and most recommended source for all therapists is Psychology Today. On this website you can filter therapists through multiple different needs for each person. Filters include: location, in-person or virtual meetings, insurance, identity, mental health condition, and treatment type. Remember that not every therapist will be a perfect fit, it takes time to build a trusting relationship between patient and therapist, the therapist works for the patient so make sure you are being supported as you need in every therapy situation. If you meet with a therapist that isn't working for you, it is okay to find another. Identity Specific Resources on finding a Therapist Inclusive Therapists Inclusive Therapists offers a safer, simpler way to find a culturally responsive, social justice-oriented therapist. We center the needs of marginalized populations, including Black, Indigenous, and People of Color, the LGBTQ+ community, neurodivergent folx, and people with disabilities. Black Emotional and Mental Health (BEAM) Virtual Therapist Network BEAM is now offering an online directory of licensed Black therapists who are certified to provide telemental health services. The National Queer and Trans Therapists of Color The National Queer and Trans Therapists of Color Network (NQTTCN) is a healing justice organization that actively works to transform mental health for queer and trans people of color in North America. They also offer a directory that helps queer and trans people of color locate queer and trans people of color mental health practitioners as well as offering a scholarship fund. Melanin & Mental Health Melanin & Mental Health was born out of a desire to connect individuals with culturally competent clinicians committed to serving the mental health needs of Black & Latinx/Hispanic communities. They are committed to promoting the growth and healing of our communities through our website, online directory, and monthly events. Common Diagnoses There are many different mental health conditions, these are listed as the most prominent by the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) Anxiety Disorders Autism Spectrum Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADD/ADHD) Bipolar Disorder Borderline Personality Disorder Depression Dissociative Disorders Dual Diagnosis: Substance Abuse and Mental Illness Eating Disorders Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) Panic Disorder Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Schizoaffective Disorder Schizophrenia Seasonal Affective Disorder Employees and Mental Health The Office of Disability Employment Policy keeps informational statistics and information on mental health in the workplace. "Nearly 1 in 5 Americans may experience some form of mental illness each year. For many of these individuals (and many without mental health conditions as well), work is key to their health, contributing to a sense of purpose and well-being. Thus, it's important that employers understand how to foster a mental health-friendly work culture." Visit the Office of Disability Employment Policy website to learn more about employment and mental health. Report Barriers Report Barriers Carruth-O'Leary Hall 1246 W Campus Rd Lawrence, KS 66045 accessibility@ku.edu 785-864-4946 instagram twitter Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.