Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU Inclusive Design 8 Workshop Your Course Content and Environment for Inclusion and Student Success Universal Design: Designing an Inclusive Classroom Top 10 Strategies for Designing an Inclusive Classroom Tips and Examples From TU faculty on Universal Design Strategies for Supporting Students with Autism Spectrum Disorders Promoting Inclusion in Communication and Interaction Poster: Be an Ally 63 steps faculty can take to improve students retention Universal Design 8 Workshop Your Course Content and Environment for Inclusion and Student Success Universal Design: Quick Links Universal Design: Online Resources Universal Design: Designing an Inclusive Classroom Universal Design: Core Competencies Poster: Be an Ally Harvey Content Structure and Standards Accessibility in Harvey/Blackboard Faculty Guides 18 Workshop Your Course Content and Environment for Inclusion and Student Success Universal Design: Quick Links Universal Design: Online Resources Universal Design: Designing an Inclusive Classroom Universal Design: Core Competencies Top 10 Strategies for Designing an Inclusive Classroom Tips for Faculty for Transitioning to In-Person Classes Tips and Examples From TU faculty on Universal Design Strategies for Supporting Students with Autism Spectrum Disorders Harvey Content Structure and Standards FAQ’S for Faculty Faculty Top 10 Strategies for Supporting Students with Accommodations Faculty Strategies for Student Success COVID-19 Resources from NCCSD Clearinghouse COVID-19 and managing mental health Checking Online Classes for Accessibility Accessibility in Harvey/Blackboard 63 steps faculty can take to improve students retention Digital Accessibility 5 Writing Accessible Content in MS Word Tips for Creating Accessible Digital Content Checking Online Classes for Accessibility Accessibility Tools for Users Accessibility From Home During COVID-19 Tips for Allies 5 Poster: Be an Ally People-First Language Disability Language Style Guide Disability Etiquette Tips Accessibility Tips and Awareness Student Resources 24 Using the Syllabus Using Study Groups Top 10 Test Prep Strategies Top 10 Strategies for Test Days Top 10 Academic Strategies Tips for Students in Transitioning to In-Person Classes Tips for Online Class Task Management Tips for Online Learning Stay Connected: Self-Advocacy Online Progressive Muscle Relaxation Learning Styles How to work with your professors successfully How to Use a Planner How to Detect Important Information During Lectures Five Notetaking Methods Exam Preparation Timeline Deep-Breathing Exercises Creating a Schedule for Success COVID-19 Resources from NCCSD Clearinghouse Calculating Your GPA Becoming a “planner person” ADHD Notetaking Tips 5-Day Test Prep Plan 3 Reasons to Get a Tutor COVID-19 5 Tips for Students in Transitioning to In-Person Classes Tips for Faculty for Transitioning to In-Person Classes COVID-19 Resources from NCCSD Clearinghouse COVID-19 and managing mental health Accessibility From Home During COVID-19 Home Accessibility Resources Student Resources Using the Syllabus Using the Syllabus The syllabus is one of the most important documents you will receive in class. This sample syllabus handout walks you through the key components and how to use the syllabus. Course Name ENGLISH 1033.15 Exposition and Argumentation Fall 2019 Tuesday/Thursday 8:00-9:15 a.m. Instructor: Professor Name, Ph.D. Office: 210 Lorton Phone: xxx-xxx-xxxx E-Mail: professor@utulsa.edu Office Hours: Available by appointment or M 2-3, W 3-5, F 9-11 The first portion contains course and instructor info, and office hours when you can (and should) go talk with the instructor. Required Texts and Materials Madden, Frank. Exploring Literature: Writing and Arguing About Fiction, Poetry, Drama, and the Essay. 5th ed. New York: Pearson/Longman, 2012. Print. Hacker, Diana. Rules for Writers. 6th ed. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s, 2004. Print. A portfolio folder. This portion tells you what textbooks you will need, and any other materials you need to get to succeed. Course Description and Learning Outcomes This course is meant to prepare you to read, interpret, and write at a college level. In this course, we will focus on reading and analyzing literature, as well as on writing essays using formal, academic English. Throughout the course, you will practice the entire writing process, which includes free-writing, formulating a thesis, researching, writing, revising, documenting, and editing. We will focus in particular on analyzing materials within given parameters and on MLA documentation and citation. You will participate as both a reader and a writer. Course Learning Outcomes At the end of English 1033, students should be able to: Read analytically; Critically interpret texts and their related contexts; Argue logically and persuasively; Organize information effectively; Present results of research concisely, Avoid academic misconduct; Present an oral argument effectively; Demonstrate an understanding of the writing process; Appropriately use, evaluate, and cite research sources; Demonstrate facility with the English language This part tells you what the course is about, and what you will learn. Course Requirements 1) Attendance: Attendance is essential for this course. Unexcused absences for 10% of the scheduled class meetings (3 classes) constitute grounds for lowering the final grade by one letter; unexcused absences for 15% of the scheduled class meetings (4 classes) are grounds for lowering the grade by two letters; unexcused absences for 20% of the scheduled class meetings (6 classes) are grounds for failure of the course. 2) Participation: Active participation is required. A large portion of this class will include active discussion, reading in class, and writing for your papers in class. Bring your books to every class. Participation constitutes 10% of your final grade. 3) In-Class Essays: There will be two in-class essays. The average of these grades will constitute 15% of the final grade. If you miss an in-class essay, it must be made up within one week (missed in-class essays must be taken at my office); otherwise, you will receive a zero for that essay. 4) Essays: There will be four assigned essays that will be written out of class. Two of the essays will be 4 pages in length. The other two essays will be 6-7 pages in length and will require research. 5) Oral Presentation: Each student must give an oral presentation in order to complete the course. The presentation will be 3-5 minutes in length and constitutes 5% of the final grade. Course Requirements or Policies let you know class rules and procedures, as well as things like grading rubrics and major course tasks. Course Grades Grade Distribution: Essay Grade: 85% Participation: 10% Oral Presentation: 5% Grade Scale: 90-100% = A 80-89% = B 70-79% = C 60-69% = D 0-59% = F Here you find a quick snapshot of the grading scale and how much certain assignments, exams, etc. are worth. Use this to track your grade in the class and figure out points you need to make the grade you want. Course Schedule Please note that I reserve the right to modify the course schedule as needed. Any changes will be discussed in class. All reading assignments should be completed prior to the class period in which we will discuss them. Aug. 21: Review syllabus and course expectations. Aug. 23: In-class Diagnostic Essay. Aug. 28: Discussion of Hacker, p. 2-20 and Madden, p. 38-44. Introduction to College Writing, lecture on Argumentation and in-class writing. Aug. 30: Discussion of Hacker, p. 20-40 and Madden, p. 57-69. The Writing Process, lecture on Outlining and in-class writing. Sept. 4: Discussion of Hacker, p. 40-57, p. 346-358. Academic Writing. Sign Plagiarism Forms. Work on drafting a thesis. Lecture on Citation and Exercise. Sept. 6: Discussion of Hacker, p. 358-371, Discussion of Madden, p. 71-73 (“The Story of an Hour”). Essay #1 Assigned. The schedule lets you know when things are due, when exams will happen, and gives you the outline of what will occur in the course. Plug these important dates into your planner. Academic Strategies Share This Article : Still stuck? How can we help? How can we help? Name: * Email: * Message: * Updated on August 19, 2020 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT