Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU University Disability Resources COVID-19 Resources LDC Portal FAQs Accommodation Statement About Search General Inquiries Student Accommodations Workplace Accommodations Effective Communication Ergonomics Housing Service and Assistance Animals Parking & Transportation Grievance Procedure Digital Access Academic Alternative Format Assistive Tech Lending Captioning Inclusive Content Creation and Delivery Innovation Pilot Projects Usability Testing Campus Access Campus Map Getting Around Construction and Renovation Event Planning At the Event Emergency Planning Publicity Materials Space Selection Tools & Resources Newsletter Student Coordinators Vendors & Service Providers Ombuds Professional Organizations Frequently Asked Questions HOME / GENERAL INQUIRIES / Effective Communication Requests may include, but are not limited to: Sign Language interpreting, Communication Access Realtime Translation (CART), Text-to-Speech, Braille, Large print – 18pt font, Audio Description, and/or ensuring adaptive equipment is available when necessary. Please note that the university will make every effort to offer effective communication accommodations. Services for Interpreting and CART are subject to availability. As service providers are in great demand in the Boston metropolitan area and often fill their schedules quickly, it is recommended to make requests at least two weeks in advance, if possible. RESIDENTIAL STUDENT HOUSING - STUDENTS Students who wish to request accommodations should contact their school's Local Student Disability Coordinator (LDC) to initiate the reasonable accommodation exploration process. Many LDCs have resources and forms posted on their website to begin the process. Please see the LDC List to find your School’s contact person or office. FACULTY AND STAFF Faculty and Staff who wish to request effective communication reasonable accommodations for hearing impairments should contact their local accommodation coordinator (Human Resources Representative or University Disability Resources). For more information on this process please see the Workplace Accommodations section. VISITORS Visitors to Harvard University who wish to request effective communication reasonable accommodation should contact the local department that they are visiting or sponsor of the event that they are attending. If you are unsure of the event sponsor, please call 617-495-1859 or email our office and we will do our best to assist you in locating the contact person for the event. General Inquiries Student Accommodations Workplace Accommodations Effective Communication Ergonomics Housing Service and Assistance Animals Parking & Transportation Grievance Procedure Contact Us Harvard University Disability Resources Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Suite 900. | 617-495-1859 | TTY: 617-496-0466 | Fax: 617-495-8520 | disabilityresources@harvard.edu| Directions to our office Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement