Digital Accessibility at Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Initiatives Policies & Guidelines Submenu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Quality Assurance Submenu Testing & Consultations Website Quality Assurance Tools Training Submenu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants How To... Submenu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility News Accommodations Get Help Search Search Section Menu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility Tables Provide Headings and Summaries for Tables Tables are formatted visually in a grid of data and that formatting provides context to the data. Through visual formatting a sighted user can quickly determine the purpose of the table and which rows/columns are the headers for the data. Assigning headers to the table also provides a layer of understanding of the data cells in the table. All of the attributes of the visual formatting of a table must have programmatic code equivalents for the non-sighted user. Luckily, Princeton's instance of the Drupal CMS will create WCAG AA compliant results if used correctly. Best Practices Define column and row headers to add semantic understanding to the table structure Add a summary of the table's content and purpose for the non-sighted user that will be read aloud by their screen reader Avoid using tables as layout devices as the experience for the non-sighted user will be confusing Don't do This Inaccessible Data Table This table was created from a sample on W3C's accessible table tutorial. Date Event Venue 12 February Waltz with Strauss Main Hall 24 March The Obelisks West Wing 12 February The What Main Hall Why is This Wrong? The table has no column or row headers defined in Drupal, even though we have created headers visually. In addition, there is no table summary. A sighted user can understand that data cells in this table relate to the topic in row and column headings. In addition, the a sighted user can understand the nature of the content as a listing of concert information with a quick visual scan, but the non-sighted user would have to start listening to the cells to determine if the information is useful because there is no table summary. Do This Accessible Data Table This table was created from a sample on W3C's accessible table tutorial. Date Event Venue 12 February Waltz with Strauss Main Hall 24 March The Obelisks West Wing 14 April The What Main Hall Why is This Right? The table is fully compliant with WCAG AA standards and meets the success criteria 1.3.1 as it provides an programmatic equivalent level of access to the non-sighted user via a screen reader. There are row and column headers identified and a summary to describe the purpose of the data table. Testing for Accessibility Best Practice The most important aspect of table accessibility is to define the column headers. We should also add row headers when they are present. In addition, we should add a summary of the table's content and purpose for the non-sighted user that will be read aloud to their screen reader. And lastly, we should avoid using tables as layout devices as the experience for the non-sighted user will be confusing. Test Use this tables bookmarklet or automated testing tool like WAVE to discover lists on a page. Do all visually formatted tables have <th> for appropriate columns and rows? Do all tables have an accurately defined summary? Have we avoided using tables as layout devices? Exceptions None. Applicable WCAG Success Criteria SC 1.3.1 Info and Relationships Resources WebAim's entry on data tables and layout tables W3C's entry on accessible tables Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University