Digital Accessibility at Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Initiatives Policies & Guidelines Submenu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Quality Assurance Submenu Testing & Consultations Website Quality Assurance Tools Training Submenu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants How To... Submenu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility News Accommodations Get Help Search Search Section Menu Classes Certifications Meetups & Channels Certificants Classes Open for Registration No upcoming events found. Instructor-Led Classes Introduction to Digital Accessibility Offered several times a year, this class provides an introduction to digital accessibility and associated standards, practices, and resources. Topics include: Overviews of disability and digital accessibility Creating accessible content on the Web Creating accessible documents University resources Demonstrations of assistive technology Register in the Employee Learning Center Accessible Meetings and Events Learn how to plan and present inclusive, disability-friendly meetings and events. This course includes an overview of accessibility and provides best practices for both live and online formats. Learn how to ensure that attendees have less fatigue, can engage with presented materials, and can fully participate. Register in the Employee Learning Center Custom Training Accessibility is very broad field, and often people have specific questions or training needs. Custom classes are designed for small groups and departmental staff upon request. Examples of topics previously taught include: Overviews of disability and how to improve the accessibility of your IT Best practices for entering accessible content using your website editing environment How to test your website or application Checking responsive designs for phones and screen magnification Using automated tools Accessible meetings and events Request a custom training class Recorded Classes Writing for the Web Clear and effective writing is an essential component of universal design and ensuring that what you communicate is accessible to people with disabilities. This training course introduces a 6-step method for writing for the web, based on cognitive psychology and writing best practices, for getting your message across. Accessible Online Meetings and Events Learn how to plan and present inclusive meetings and events. This course includes an overview of accessibility and provides best practices to help ensure that everyone who participates has less videoconferencing fatigue and more engagement with the session. Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University