Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU University Disability Resources COVID-19 Resources LDC Portal FAQs Accommodation Statement About Search General Inquiries Student Accommodations Workplace Accommodations Effective Communication Ergonomics Housing Service and Assistance Animals Parking & Transportation Grievance Procedure Digital Access Academic Alternative Format Assistive Tech Lending Captioning Inclusive Content Creation and Delivery Innovation Pilot Projects Usability Testing Campus Access Campus Map Getting Around Construction and Renovation Event Planning At the Event Emergency Planning Publicity Materials Space Selection Tools & Resources Newsletter Student Coordinators Vendors & Service Providers Ombuds Professional Organizations Frequently Asked Questions HOME / TOOLS & RESOURCES / Vendors & Service Providers Harvard University explores requests for reasonable accommodations from individuals with disabilities. We encourage that you build accessibility in on the front-end, in both practice and budget planning, as you would catering, AV or other event needs. Please find below a listing of vendors that may be useful in your office’s exploration of an individual’s reasonable accommodation request. Note that it is the responsibility of each individual school, department or event sponsor to be responsive to all requests as well as to cover the cost of accommodations provided to an individual/general audience at their event or program. No cost is passed onto the requesting individual and cost should not be a factor when exploring accommodation. For further questions or consultation during this process, our office may be reached at disabilityresources@harvard.edu. ASL and CART In order to streamline the process to request services, the following referral agencies can respond to interpreter and CART requests for Harvard affiliates and guests who are Deaf and/or Hard of Hearing. The two agencies identified below offer remote services for ASL or CART. Remote may be a helpful option to consider for the implementation of last minute requests. UDR has a model contract available for university partners who are hiring effective communication service providers. Please contact our office to obtain this information or if additional assistance is needed to explore these resources. Hands in Motion jmann@himservice.com (877) 310-8389 http://himservice.com/ ASL Services: nwscheduling@aslservices.com (prescheduled in-person interpreter requests) vrischeduling@aslservices.com (prescheduled video interpreting services) Via telephone: (407) 518-7900 ext. 334 (all prescheduled requests) (407) 931-8050 (pager for same day/next day service) (877) HAVE-VRI (same day/next day video interpreting requests) https://aslservices.com/ Contact the agency to request service. They will guide you through the request process and answer any questions you may have. Be prepared to answer whether parking, mileage or transportation will be paid for the service provider, by your office. Please ensure that you are aware of the details of the cancellation policy of the agency. After services are provided, the agency will send the invoice directly to you or your designee. Kindly look over all invoices for accuracy and forward to the appropriate office within your school for payment processing. Should you have any questions about an invoice please feel free to contact the agency directly. Audio Description Audio description, also referred to as a video description is an additional narration track intended primarily for blind and visually impaired consumers of visual media (including television and film, dance, opera, and visual art). For an internal listing of providers with Harvard experience, please contact disabilityresources@harvard.edu Please note: there is an associated cost for hiring service providers. Braille While Harvard does not have a preferred vendor for Braille services, any of the three vendors below listed below can create braille materials such as programs, brochures, or business cards: National Braille Press – Downtown Boston The Alternative Media Access Center (part of Georgia Tech) Access-USA in New York We’d be happy to consult if you have any questions during this process. Captioning HUIT and UDR offer guidance to schools and departments looking to add captioning to video resources. While there are numerous captioning vendors available, the following have been evaluated by the University. Below are selected available vendors. More information on exploring and hiring service providers may be found on the Digital Accessibility website. Vendor Cost Accuracy Turn-around time Suitable use cases How to 3Play Media (High) Harvard negotiated pricing very high (99%+) Standard: 48 hours Premium: 24 hours Preferred Vendor. Use for videos that need high degree of accuracy, such as for a student who needs captioning for a course lecture or videos to be made public. Offers a wide range of services and formats. Instructions: 3Play Rev $1/min Very high (99%+) 24 hour turnaround if video is 20 minutes or less. Used for videos that need high accuracy, such as for a student who needs captioning for a course lecture or videos to be made public. Instructions: Rev Cielo24 On per minute basis Very high (99%+) 24 or 48 hours Combination. Can be integrated with video platforms. Instructions: Cielo24 Live Captioning Live Captioning or Realtime captioning may be provided at a live event and is displayed as lines of text across the event video screen and/or via the event livestream. There are several vendors that may be contacted for Live Captioning Services: WGBH - http://main.wgbh.org/wgbh/pages/mag/ Caption First - www.captionfirst.com Coast2Coast Captioning - www.c2ccaptioning.com Hardeman Realtime, Inc. - www.hricart.com Karasch & Associates - www.karasch.com The National Captioning Institute, NCI, Inc. - www.ncicap.org Please note: there is an associated cost for hiring service providers. Equipment Loan or Rental Equipment Loan Our office has two wheelchairs available for loan to the Harvard Community. Additional equipment and software may be available for loan through the UDR Lab. Harvard Art Museums, HMNH, and the Harvard Information Center also have wheelchairs available for visitor use on-site, on a first-come first-served basis. Equipment Rental There are a number of equipment rental companies in the local area. Wheelchairs, walkers, scooters, and other equipment may be rented from local vendors that provide short term loans for a cost. Belmont Medical Supply http://www.belmontmedical.com/ 185 Belmont Street, Belmont, MA 02478 617-484-3888 Boston Orthopedic & Respiratory Equipment http://www.bostonorthoresp.com/ 175 Main Street, Charlestown, MA 617-337-5133 or (800) 854-6370 Tools & Resources Student Coordinators Vendors & Service Providers Harvard Ombuds Office Professional Organizations Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Harvard University Disability Resources Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Suite 900. | 617-495-1859 | TTY: 617-496-0466 | Fax: 617-495-8520 | disabilityresources@harvard.edu| Directions to our office Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement