Digital Accessibility at Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Submenu People Initiatives Policies & Guidelines Submenu Web Video and Audio Social Media Events IT Procurement Email Quality Assurance Submenu Testing & Consultations Website Quality Assurance Tools Training Submenu Classes Certifications Submenu Certificant Resources Meetups & Channels Certificants How To... Submenu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility News Accommodations Get Help Search Search Section Menu Create Accessible Content Submenu Images of Text Alternative Text Color Contrast Headings Lists Tables Layout Tables Meaningful Links Identify Languages Color Alone Sensory Characteristics PDF Documents Design Accessibly Develop Accessibly Test For Accessibility Do Not Use Images of Text "Pictures are for puppies, not for paragraphs" Mobile users struggle with images of text: the lines cannot reflow, so the browser just makes it smaller and smaller and smaller... Users with low vision struggle with images of text: JPG and PNG images of text cannot be scaled up by users with low vision without becoming blurry. Screen reader users struggle with images of text: all text in the image must be placed in the alternative text, in which all the text is read as a single run-on sentence: line breaks, headings, table structure and lists are lost, and if any words are missed the user cannot go back a line -- they have to start over at the beginning! Best Practices Use "real" text as all page content you expect everybody to be able to read. Use CSS to visually style it to achieve dynamic visual designs. When images of text are absolutely necessary (e.g., logos): Always provide alternative text for words in a picture meant to be read. Upload vector images (SVG) or images with enough extra resolution to stay sharp when enlarged (e.g., a 1000px wide file for a 500px wide placement). If the text in the image is longer than a sentence, also reproduce its contents on the page as regular text: e.g., describe key points from a chart in its caption, or provide the event information from a poster designed for print next to the image of the poster. Don't do This Expect a User to Read a Picture of a Poster Why Is This Wrong? This image cannot reflow for mobile. This image cannot be enlarged without becoming blurry. All formatting is lost for assistive devices; the alt text will be one run-on sentence. Do This Convert Poster to Text Program of the Department Open House All interested or curious sophomores are cordially invited. 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. Tuesday, February 21st 209 Prospect House Food will be served. Download open House Flyer (.pdf) Why Is This Better? The text can reflow for mobile. The text can be enlarged without becoming blurry. A screen reader user can jump between lines, skipping parts to skim or re-reading individual parts of interest. Even better, the header has been "pulled out" into the page structure to make it easier for them to find the event listing in the first place. Users who want to view the poster as a poster can click to enlarge it, and then view it full screen rather than crammed into a column. Testing for Accessibility Test Use this image bookmarklet or automated testing tool like WAVE to discover images on a page Are there images of text? If yes, can you set as live text or provide alternative format? Exceptions Things like logos, charts, and graphs can have text set as part of the image as long as alternative text is authored to provide equivalent access. Applicable WCAG Success Criteria SC 1.4.5 Images of Text Resources WebAim's article on issues with enlarged text Footer Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University