Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU > FAQ’s FAQ’s General FAQ’s a What if I have a disability? Students with diagnosed disabilities (or who think they may have a disability and want to find out) work with Student Access to receive accommodations that will provide access to all opportunities. Student Access provides ongoing support and assistance to students with all disabilities, including ADHD, learning disabilities, psychological disabilities, and physical disabilities. In order to receive accommodations best suited and approved for their needs, students provide documentation of their disability to Student Access. Students can schedule an appointment with Student Access staff to discuss documentation and requested accommodations. After accommodations are approved, each student works with Student Access staff to set up arrangements for their accommodations. a Where can I find information about scholarships for students with disabilities? You may locate this information online: Undergraduate Scholarships. a I have had to miss a lot of class due to my disability or other concerns. What are my options? Students in this situation should schedule an appointment with Student Access to discuss available options. Student Access will work with the student as well as faculty and staff members to try to help a student recover academically. Students should contact Student Access as soon as this becomes an issue to have the best chance of turning the semester around. In the event a student will not be able to return to class, Student Access staff will discuss options with the student and work to get the student on a path where they could eventually return. Accommodations a I’m having issues logging into the Accessibility Services Portal. Please feel free to reach out to Student Access (studentaccess@utulsa.edu) and we’d be happy to follow up with you. Here are a few quick resolutions to some common issues. Your account must be active for you to log in. For alumni, prospective, and those students that are returning from time away you most likely will not be able to log into the system. Using the appropriate web address. Double check and make sure the web address you are using is the following: https://sierra.accessiblelearning.com/utulsa. On the login screen you will see you the TU logo and it will prompt you to enter your TU email address and password. Don’t forget to bookmark the web address listed! a Making An Accommodation Request To make a request for accommodations, at a minimum, students should submit the Application for Accessibility Services and have their health care provider submit supporting documentation and/or fill out the Accommodation Verification Form as stipulated in the appropriate policy (ADHD Guidelines or Learning Disability Guidelines). These forms can be found on our Forms & Policies page. Students will then speak with a Student Access staff member regarding their needs. Once a decision is made regarding accommodations, students meet with a Student Access staff member to review their accommodations, discuss how to utilize them, and sign the Rights and Responsibilities form. a How do I utilize my accommodations? Every semester, students can log on to the Accessibility Services Portal to request which accommodations they would like to notify each of their professors about for each of their classes, submit exam requests, and notetaking requests. Specific procedures and deadlines can be found in the Rights and Responsibilities. Additionally, for specific accommodations that require service providers or materials, students need to submit an Accommodation Request Form before every semester (the earlier the better) to make arrangements for those accommodations (e.g., such as interpreters, CAN/CART providers, alternative textbook formats). a Examples of accommodations offered Extended time on exams Taking exams in a distraction-reduced environment Computer use for exams Notetaking assistance Recording lectures Priority registration for classes Documentation of ongoing medical absences Notifications for allergies Alternative formats ASL interpreting Preferential seating in classes Housing and meal plan accommodations a I think I might have a learning disability. How can I get tested? Student Access can make referrals to do testing to determine if you have a disability of some kind. There are numerous resources available in Tulsa and Student Access staff can help connect students to these resources. a I would like to get accommodations. What do I need to do? Student Access offers a number of accommodations to students with disabilities. Some of the most common include extended time on exams, taking exams in a distraction-reduced environment, priority enrollment for classes, interpreter support for the classroom, and class notetaking assistance. To qualify for accommodations, students provide documentation of their disability to Student Access. Depending on the type of disability, there is different information that will need to be provided by the student’s diagnosing professional. Students can schedule an appointment with Student Access staff to discuss the appropriate documentation needed and accommodations available. Once the documentation has been submitted, the student’s file is sent to the ADA/504 Coordinator. The ADA/504 Coordinator reviews the documentation and makes determinations about appropriate accommodations. The decision is then given to the student in writing and Student Access staff will meet with the student to get the accommodations set up. a I am receiving accommodations. How are my instructors notified of the accommodations I receive? Every semester, students can log on to the Accessibility Services Portal to request which accommodations they would like to notify each of their professors about for each of their classes. After the student submits the request, Student Access staff will send the Notification of Required Accommodations letter to the course professor via email (students also receive a copy of each letter). a Should I be concerned about the impact my record with Student Access may have on future school and employment opportunities? Because a student’s record is private and protected by federal law, information contained in the student’s record may not be released to anyone besides the student without permission given, in writing, by the student to release that information. If a student would like information shared with someone (e.g., a faculty member, a physician, a family member), the student may sign a release form that would give permission to release information. Even University staff are not entitled to the information in a student’s record unless they have a legitimate educational need to know the information, as defined by federal law. Prospective employers would not have access to the student’s record without a signed release form. For more information about exceptions to the privacy of a student’s record, please contact Student Access or visit the FERPA website. Physical Spaces a Building and Campus Access View, download, and print the ADA Accessibility Campus Map. a Where can I find locations for ADA accessible seating at sporting events? You can find information under “Ticketing” online at www.tulsahurricane.com. The seating charts indicating ADA accessible seating can also be found online. Please contact Student Access or the Ticketing Office for other questions. a How do I get an ADA placard for my car to park on campus? If you have a disability, your doctor can provide verification for you to submit to the Oklahoma Department of Public Safety to get an ADA placard to display on your car. This will allow you to park in any ADA parking spot in any lot on campus. You must still display a valid TU parking permit as well, but the ADA placard from DPS will enable parking in any of the lots in the ADA parking spots. Should you find no ADA parking spots available in the lot you need, contact Parking & Card Services or Campus Security. For information about accessible parking and temporary accessible parking on campus, please visit Parking & Card Services. a I have a physical disability and am concerned about inclement weather. What can I do? Students can register their disability with Student Access. Student Access will notify Campus Security that the student may occasionally experience transportation difficulty in inclement weather and these resources can assist. Visitors may contact Campus Security at 918-631-5555 for transportation difficulties in inclement weather and assistance will be provided as available when officers are not responding to other calls. Additionally, if snow or other weather presents barriers in pedestrian travel paths, please contact Physical Plant for assistance (918-631-2287). As a student, if inclement weather presents problems getting to class, contact your professor to discuss what to do. Pathfinders Program a What is Pathfinders? In Pathfinders, students will participate in skills-building groups, social events, and Student Success Coaching, all with their sensory needs in mind. Our skills-building groups include topics such as building and maintaining relationships, talking with professors, and practicing self-care. a Pathfinders Skills Building Topics Transition to college Academic and study skills improvement Social skills and problems Health and wellness Positive recreation Housing and living with roommates Independent living Enhancing speech patterns Communication and presentation skills Self-confidence Involvement and volunteering Time management and organization Goal-setting and self-advocacy Stress management and anxiety Interacting with professors Work and career preparation 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT