Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU University Disability Resources COVID-19 Resources LDC Portal FAQs Accommodation Statement About Search General Inquiries Student Accommodations Workplace Accommodations Effective Communication Ergonomics Housing Service and Assistance Animals Parking & Transportation Grievance Procedure Digital Access Academic Alternative Format Assistive Tech Lending Captioning Inclusive Content Creation and Delivery Innovation Pilot Projects Usability Testing Campus Access Campus Map Getting Around Construction and Renovation Event Planning At the Event Emergency Planning Publicity Materials Space Selection Tools & Resources Newsletter Student Coordinators Vendors & Service Providers Ombuds Professional Organizations Frequently Asked Questions HOME / EVENT PLANNING / Publicity Materials Providing details about an event in publicity materials can help participants determine what accommodations may be needed, if any. Information that may be helpful to know includes location, availability of assistive listening devices and wheelchairs and what the food options are for persons with food allergies and sensitivities. Reasonable Accommodation Statement We recommend using an accommodation statement to let individuals know that they may request accommodations for your event or program, if needed. The standard statement we use is: Harvard University welcomes individuals with disabilities to participate in its programs and activities. If you would like to request accommodations or have questions about the physical access provided, please contact [insert email and telephone number of the program/event sponsor] in advance of your participation or visit. Requests for Sign Language interpreters and/or CART providers should be made at least two weeks in advance, if possible. Please note that the university will make every effort to secure services, but that services are subject to availability. Abbreviated Reasonable Accommodation Statement To be used when space is limited: Persons with disabilities who would like to request accommodations or have questions about physical access may contact [insert email and telephone number of the program/event sponsor] in advance of the program or visit. Making Digital and Print documents accessible When designing publicity materials, such as email flyers, word documents, or PDFs, we encourage making them accessible from the start. Resources on ensuring your web and print content is accessible are available on the Digital Accessibility website. Responding to Requests for Accommodations An accommodation is a change, alteration or modification to the way things are customarily done that provides an equal opportunity. Examples of accommodations include but are not limited to: Sign Language Interpreter Materials in alternative formats, such as providing a digital version of a hand-out, braille material or changing fronts sizes. Preferential Seating Assistive Listening Devices At larger events or events offering accommodations, designate someone to be responsible for exploring accommodations as well as help with seating, ensuring captioning and other technology is working, maintaining clear pathways or responding to other needs. Requests should be responded to in a timely manner and any cost associated is covered by the sponsoring entity. The accommodation preferred by the participant should be given primary consideration, however, in some circumstances, several accommodation options may be available. In addition, UDR offers contact information for several effective communication service providers and vendors. For further questions or consultation during this process, UDR may be reached at disabilityresources@harvard.edu. Planning Accessible Meetings and Events Publicity Materials Space Selection At the Event Event Emergency Planning Vendors/Service Providers Contact Us Harvard University Disability Resources Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Suite 900. | 617-495-1859 | TTY: 617-496-0466 | Fax: 617-495-8520 | disabilityresources@harvard.edu| Directions to our office Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement