Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU > Arts & Sciences > Student filmmaker Sydney Alison explores Italian cinema abroad Student filmmaker Sydney Alison explores Italian cinema abroad July 17, 2019 Film studies senior Sydney Alison completed The University of Tulsa’s Music and Italian Cinema course last semester where she explored the history of Italian film every week through class discussions and papers. The experience was very rewarding, and at the end of the spring semester she and her classmates traveled to Italy as members of a faculty-led program on the continued study of Italian cinema. However, Sydney’s journey was a little different from that of a typical TU student. Her trip brought up some meaningful challenges surrounding accessibility. “I use a wheelchair to get around and I had many worries about accessibility in hotels, restaurants, museums and transportation,” Sydney said. “My mom needed to go on the trip as well, so the cost doubled for us.” Sydney and her mother, Lori, in Florence, Italy. Initially, Sydney was so worried that she decided it would be easier to not go. She sent Candice Chinsethagid, assistant director of Short-Term Global Programs at the Center for Global Education (CGE) an email with her decision. Candice immediately emailed her back with solutions to all of her worries. Candice booked all of the necessary transportation for Sydney and her mom and found accessible hotels and restaurants. In the end, Candice found Sydney a scholarship that also made the trip financially possible. “It is exciting that study abroad has matured over the years to where we can explore options for students who have unique situations,” said Jane Kucko, vice provost for Global Education. “It was rewarding to watch Candice and Sydney work together to make her dream come true. CGE encourages all students, regardless of their academic, financial and other unique goals to visit with our advisers about study abroad. Studying in another culture is life-changing and it is our pleasure to work with students in order to make this opportunity happen.” Thanks to the dedication of the TU CGE staff, Sydney had the experience of a lifetime and was able to participate in all aspects of the trip. Soaking up the sun in Siena, Italy. “I had the opportunity to eat real Italian food, learn about the history of Italian cinema and see Italy up close and personal! I realized that it is more than possible for students with disabilities to travel abroad. Planning every detail so that I could fully participate in the trip was very new for the Center for Global Education and myself, but I’m extremely thankful they did not give up on me. I know that they will continue to give TU students with unique needs the opportunity and confidence to study abroad,” Sydney said. The study abroad options are as unique as each TU student. TU offers semester, year-long, summer and faculty-led programs. Semester and year-long study abroad sessions are designed to provide a wider view of the world and a richer understanding of the global community. Both are offered through carefully selected partnerships with international institutions, specific partner programs and exchange programs in various parts of the world. Summer study abroad programs provide intensive, compressed study in another country. Students with heavily structured academic programs or situations that prevent them from being away for longer than three to five weeks often enroll in summer programs. Sydney and her mom in Milan, Italy. “There are many options for students of all majors and backgrounds, so we encourage everyone to explore the possibility of studying abroad,” Jane commented. Sydney did just that with her faculty-led program. Faculty-led programs are organized by TU professors where learning is facilitated through the faculty’s expertise and connections in a global context. Professors utilize the international location of the trip to augment the academic component in the context of local culture and site-enhanced activities. “Over the span of nine days, our group went to Milan, Turin, Siena, Arezzo, Florence, and Rome,” Sydney said. “We took walking tours in each city where we visited famous film sites and magnificent cathedrals that are hundreds of years old. We indulged in incredible food everywhere we went – focaccia, pasta al dente and fresh seafood were a few of my favorites.” Slices in Siena! While abroad, she picked up some basic Italian and had a few small conversations with tour guides, waiters and train passengers. Sydney and her classmates visited Cinecittà in Rome, which is Europe’s largest film studio. They saw the original costumes, props and sets from famous Italian and American films. She even saw material from one of her favorite directors, Martin Scorsese, whose parents are Italian. “I was exhausted every night and I completely messed up my sleep schedule by taking naps at 6 p.m., getting up to eat dinner, then going back to sleep for the night. It was such an enriching experience that expanded my curiosity and knowledge of Italian filmmakers, composers and Italy itself,” Sydney said. Experimenting with cameras at the National Museum of Cinema in Turin, Italy. In an increasingly digitally connected world, study abroad has become a key piece of the American college experience. College graduates who have the personal, academic and professional skills that are gained through international experiences are at the forefront of their fields. TU provides many options to study abroad including a program occurring before the start of freshman year. JumpstartTU Abroad is a short-term intensive experience designed to prepare new students for the challenges and opportunities that distinguish a TU education. You can read about Walli Zaman’s JumpstartTU experience here. Arts & Sciences, Commitment: Accepted, Commitment: Empowered, Commitment: Engaged, Commitment: Self-Discovery, Diversity, Experiential Learning, Global Education, Life Abroad, Short-Term, Stories, study abroad 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT