Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU University Disability Resources COVID-19 Resources LDC Portal FAQs Accommodation Statement About Search General Inquiries Student Accommodations Workplace Accommodations Effective Communication Ergonomics Housing Service and Assistance Animals Parking & Transportation Grievance Procedure Digital Access Academic Alternative Format Assistive Tech Lending Captioning Inclusive Content Creation and Delivery Innovation Pilot Projects Usability Testing Campus Access Campus Map Getting Around Construction and Renovation Event Planning At the Event Emergency Planning Publicity Materials Space Selection Tools & Resources Newsletter Student Coordinators Vendors & Service Providers Ombuds Professional Organizations Frequently Asked Questions HOME / TOOLS & RESOURCES / Professional Organizations Blind Low Vision Perkins Solutions & Perkins School for the Blind: Perkins is a progressive, multi-faceted organization committed to improving the lives of people with blindness and deafblindness all around the world. The organization is driven by a proven team of experts and supported by a community that's committed to upholding our core values. The Perkins mission is to prepare children and young adults who are blind with the education, confidence and skills they need to realize their potential. Massachusetts Commission for the Blind: The Massachusetts Commission for the Blind is a state agency, established in 1906, to provide a wide range of social and rehabilitation services to Massachusetts residents of all ages who are legally blind. The Massachusetts Commission for the Blind (MCB) provides the highest quality rehabilitation and social services to individuals who are blind, leading to independence and full community participation. MCB accomplishes this critical mission by working in partnership with consumers who are legally blind, families, community agencies, health care providers, and employers. The Carroll Center for the Blind: The Carroll Center serves the needs of blind and visually-impaired persons by providing rehabilitation, skills training, and educational opportunities to achieve independence, self-sufficiency, and self-fulfillment and by educating the public regarding the potential of persons who are blind and visually-impaired. Our services for the blind include vision rehabilitation services, vocational and transition programs, assistive technology training, educational support, and recreation opportunities for individuals who are visually impaired of all ages. The National Federation for the Blind: The National Federation for the Blind (NFB) has developed a comprehensive listing of current assistive technologies which can be accessed at https://nfb.org/technology-resource-list. Deaf and Hard of Hearing Massachusetts Commission for the Deaf & Hard of Hearing: The Massachusetts Commission for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing is the principal agency in the Commonwealth on behalf of people of all ages who are deaf and hard of hearing. The Mission of MCDHH is to provide accessible communication, education and advocacy to consumers and private and public entities so that programs, services and opportunities throughout Massachusetts are fully accessible to persons who are Deaf and hard of hearing. Assistive Technology Resources Easter Seals Assistive Technology Regional Center (ATRC) The Assistive Technology Regional Center (ATRC) helps people with disabilities in Eastern Massachusetts make informed decisions about assistive technology they can use to increase their independence at home, on the job or in school. At the center, individuals and groups can explore hundreds of high- and low-tech devices that can meet a variety of needs. The ATRC encourages you to visit during our drop-in hours (available the first Thursday of every month), participate in a free workshop, or reserve a time to host your staff meeting or in-service training onsite at the ATRC. It’s like a lending library, only instead of books, you can take home the equipment and try it out for up to four weeks. Accessible Website and Design The Paciello Group: We help achieve end-to-end accessibility in your organization’s websites, applications and processes. Our consulting services include accessibility testing and evaluation, WCAG/Section 508 compliance audits, VPAT analysis and production, training, user testing and research, design reviews and strategic planning to embed accessible user experience into all aspects of your product development lifecycle. Higher Ed Organizations National Association of ADA Coordinators:The National Association of ADA Coordinators was founded by a group of public and private sector employment and accessibility professionals in 1992. They saw the need to educate public and private entities in all aspects of the American with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). The goal was to recognize and to demonstrate that it is much more valuable to educate about the ADA than to bear the costs of noncompliance litigation. The Association works with the senior attorneys and representatives from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the U.S. Department of Education (DOE) and the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to develop conferences dealing with all aspects of the ADA including the Americans with Disabilities Amendment Act of 2008 (ADAAA). AHEAD (Association on Higher Ed and Disability): AHEAD is a professional membership organization for individuals involved in the development of policy and in the provision of quality services to meet the needs of persons with disabilities involved in all areas of higher education. NEHEAD (New England Ahead): is the New England branch of AHEAD. The mission of AHEAD-NE is to strengthen the professionalism, knowledge and expertise of personnel working with postsecondary students through the design and growth of a regional communications network. AHEAD-NE will facilitate the collection and dissemination of information and will provide an arena for networking, discussion and training for its members. Facilities Access Institute for Human Centered Design: The Institute for Human Centered Design (IHCD), founded in Boston in 1978 as Adaptive Environments, is an international non-governmental educational organization (NGO) committed to advancing the role of design in expanding opportunity and enhancing experience for people of all ages and abilities through excellence in design. IHCD’s work balances expertise in legally required accessibility with promotion of best practices in human-centered or universal design. CORADA: Evan Terry Associates has created the Comprehensive Online Resource for the Americans with Disabilities Act, or CORADA, for the purpose of helping people to identify, to understand, and to meet their obligations under the ADA and other access requirements. Accessibility Online Webinars: AccessibilityOnline represents a collaborative training program between the ADA National Network and the US Access Board. The AccessibilityOnline Webinar Series is free and offers real-time captioning in all sessions. Sessions are held on a monthly basis and cover a variety of topics concerning accessibility to the built environment, information and communication technologies, and transportation. Tools & Resources Student Coordinators Vendors & Service Providers Harvard Ombuds Office Professional Organizations Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Harvard University Disability Resources Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Suite 900. | 617-495-1859 | TTY: 617-496-0466 | Fax: 617-495-8520 | disabilityresources@harvard.edu| Directions to our office Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement