Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Digital Accessibility Search Training Accessibility Trainings On-Demand Training Videos Resources For Content Creators For Developers For Managers Accessibility Testing Multimedia Accessibility Documents Technology Procurement Accessibility Services and Labs Techniques Disabilities Assistive Technologies Elements Technologies Principles Policies Digital Accessibility Policy Procurement and Development Settlement Caption Requirements FAQs About DAS HOME / CALENDAR / CALENDAR / All Accessibility Trainings Month Week Day Year Upcoming(active tab) Past Events Export subscribe iCal rss Google 2022 Jun 06 Digital Accessibility Level II: Orientation 11:00am to 11:50am Location: Virtual - Zoom Course Description In Digital Accessibility Foundations Level I, you were introduced to the types of disabilities people experience, assistive technologies commonly used, and the University’s commitment to accessibility and its related policies. You learned how to... Read more about Digital Accessibility Level II: Orientation 2022 Jun 07 Creating Accessible PDFs 10:00am to 12:00pm Location: Virtual - Zoom This course provides an overview of the concepts and concrete steps to create accessible PDFs in Adobe Acrobat Pro. Designing with accessibility in mind improves ease of use and access to your content for everyone. ... Read more about Creating Accessible PDFs 2022 Jun 09 Web Accessibility for Developers 10:00am Location: Virtual - Zoom Web Accessibility for Developers is a training based on 10 Essentials for Developers. Meant as a follow-up to "Digital Accessibility for Content Creators" or another introduction to accessibility, we survey some essentials for developers with code examples, demonstrations, and an emphasis on testing. This training will be held virtually via Zoom in two sessions: 10 am - 12 pm, and 2 pm - 4 pm. ... Read more about Web Accessibility for Developers 2022 Jun 15 Testing for Digital Accessibility 9:30am to 12:00pm Location: Virtual - Zoom Learn how to conduct a complete assessment of your website’s accessibility using both automated and manual testing tools. The course will include a deep dive into Siteimprove, the Harvard-licensed accessibility testing platform, where we’ll demystify the many features and functionality that allow users to filter, sort, and remediate issues. We’ll also look at manual testing approaches, with interactive demonstrations of various methods and techniques. ... Read more about Testing for Digital Accessibility 2022 Jun 22 Digital Accessibility Foundations (IT Academy 2-day course) 9:00am Location: Virtual - Zoom This training will be held virtually via Zoom on June 22 and 23 from 9 am - 11 am, and 1 pm - 3 pm each day. This course is part of the IT Academy, but is open to all and recommended for anyone and everyone at Harvard. This course provides an overview of digital accessibility and includes a number of activities for which your laptop will be required.... Read more about Digital Accessibility Foundations (IT Academy 2-day course) 2022 Jun 29 Digital Accessibility for Content Creators 2:00pm to 4:30pm Location: Virtual - Zoom This training will introduce learners to digital accessibility, demonstrate its importance, and provide guidance about Harvard’s Digital Accessibility Policy. We will discuss best practices for creating accessible web content, and also for updating existing content to make it accessible to all users. ... Read more about Digital Accessibility for Content Creators 2022 Jul 12 Introduction to Digital Accessibility & Harvard's Policies 1:00pm to 2:30pm Location: Virtual - Zoom This training introduces and explores basic concepts of digital accessibility and relevant university policies including the Digital Accessibility Policy and the Accessible Technology Procurement and Development Policy. ... Read more about Introduction to Digital Accessibility & Harvard's Policies 2022 Jul 13 Creating Accessible Documents 10:00am to 12:00pm Location: Virtual - Zoom This course provides an overview of the concepts and concrete steps to create accessible documents in Microsoft Word and Google Docs. It also introduces how to convert documents into accessible PDFs. ... Read more about Creating Accessible Documents 2022 Jul 21 Creating Accessible Slide Decks 1:00pm to 3:00pm Location: Virtual - Zoom This course provides an overview of the concepts and concrete steps to create accessible documents in Microsoft PowerPoint and Google Slides. It also introduces how to convert accessible slideshows into accessible PDFs. ... Read more about Creating Accessible Slide Decks 2022 Aug 04 Digital Accessibility for Content Creators 1:00pm to 3:30pm Location: Virtual - Zoom This training will introduce learners to digital accessibility, demonstrate its importance, and provide guidance about Harvard’s Digital Accessibility Policy. We will discuss best practices for creating accessible web content, and also for updating existing content to make it accessible to all users. ... Read more about Digital Accessibility for Content Creators Pages 1 2 » last About DAS Digital Accessibility Services (DAS) offers training, consultation, and resources on accessibility for content creators and developers. Meet the DAS team ➜ Filter trainings by topic Intro and Policy Trainings Content Creator Trainings Developer Trainings Documents Trainings Testing Trainings Digital Accessibility Foundations All Accessibility Trainings HWP OpenScholar and UX Trainings - iframe Siteimprove Usability script Custom JS jquery section expander Site-wide CSS Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement