Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU > Students > Pathfinders Program > Welcome to Pathfinders Welcome to Pathfinders ACCESS FOR STUDENTS Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program FAQ’s CONTACT US Pathfinders is uniquely designed for our TU students living with Autism, Social Anxiety, or other uniquenesses. In Student Access, we welcome our students living with these differences, as well as their friends, families, and allies! Our program is specially tailored to meet our students’ needs. In Pathfinders, students will participate in skills-building groups, social events, and Success Coaching, all with their sensory needs in mind. Our skills-building groups include topics such as interpersonal relationships, talking with professors, and practicing self-care. Furthermore, our social events use specific tools like sensory-friendly games and service dogs to create a social atmosphere comfortable for all students. Finally, our Success Coaches guide students through academic topics and skills-building sessions, and help students grow as collegians and future professionals. We welcome you, your friends, and allies to take part! Contact List Anyone in Student Access can help you get connected! Specifically, Abby Boehning, LMSW; MSW U/S, is your point-person for Pathfinders. Calendar of Events In a pandemic-free world, we would have face-to-face interactions and events; however, as 2020 and 2021 have taken a turn, we have pivoted to an online model. Check out our events! All events are scheduled for Thursdays at 4:00 pm. Thursday, January 21st Chill & Chat A regularly scheduled event where we will play games, build skills, and connect! Details to follow. Thursday, January 28th Thursday, February 4th Thursday, February 11th Thursday, February 18th Thursday, February 25th Thursday, March 4th Thursday, March 11th Thursday, March 18th Thursday, March 25th Thursday, April 1st Thursday, April 8th Thursday, April 15th Thursday, April 29th Abby Boehning Pathfinders Program CoordinatorBio Student Access OfficeBio × Abby Boehning Pathfinders Program Coordinator lab2352@utulsa.edu Close Window × Student Access Office 918-631-2315 studentaccess@utulsa.edu accessibility.utulsa.edu Close Window 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT