Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU Inclusive Design 8 Workshop Your Course Content and Environment for Inclusion and Student Success Universal Design: Designing an Inclusive Classroom Top 10 Strategies for Designing an Inclusive Classroom Tips and Examples From TU faculty on Universal Design Strategies for Supporting Students with Autism Spectrum Disorders Promoting Inclusion in Communication and Interaction Poster: Be an Ally 63 steps faculty can take to improve students retention Universal Design 8 Workshop Your Course Content and Environment for Inclusion and Student Success Universal Design: Quick Links Universal Design: Online Resources Universal Design: Designing an Inclusive Classroom Universal Design: Core Competencies Poster: Be an Ally Harvey Content Structure and Standards Accessibility in Harvey/Blackboard Faculty Guides 18 Workshop Your Course Content and Environment for Inclusion and Student Success Universal Design: Quick Links Universal Design: Online Resources Universal Design: Designing an Inclusive Classroom Universal Design: Core Competencies Top 10 Strategies for Designing an Inclusive Classroom Tips for Faculty for Transitioning to In-Person Classes Tips and Examples From TU faculty on Universal Design Strategies for Supporting Students with Autism Spectrum Disorders Harvey Content Structure and Standards FAQ’S for Faculty Faculty Top 10 Strategies for Supporting Students with Accommodations Faculty Strategies for Student Success COVID-19 Resources from NCCSD Clearinghouse COVID-19 and managing mental health Checking Online Classes for Accessibility Accessibility in Harvey/Blackboard 63 steps faculty can take to improve students retention Digital Accessibility 5 Writing Accessible Content in MS Word Tips for Creating Accessible Digital Content Checking Online Classes for Accessibility Accessibility Tools for Users Accessibility From Home During COVID-19 Tips for Allies 5 Poster: Be an Ally People-First Language Disability Language Style Guide Disability Etiquette Tips Accessibility Tips and Awareness Student Resources 24 Using the Syllabus Using Study Groups Top 10 Test Prep Strategies Top 10 Strategies for Test Days Top 10 Academic Strategies Tips for Students in Transitioning to In-Person Classes Tips for Online Class Task Management Tips for Online Learning Stay Connected: Self-Advocacy Online Progressive Muscle Relaxation Learning Styles How to work with your professors successfully How to Use a Planner How to Detect Important Information During Lectures Five Notetaking Methods Exam Preparation Timeline Deep-Breathing Exercises Creating a Schedule for Success COVID-19 Resources from NCCSD Clearinghouse Calculating Your GPA Becoming a “planner person” ADHD Notetaking Tips 5-Day Test Prep Plan 3 Reasons to Get a Tutor COVID-19 5 Tips for Students in Transitioning to In-Person Classes Tips for Faculty for Transitioning to In-Person Classes COVID-19 Resources from NCCSD Clearinghouse COVID-19 and managing mental health Accessibility From Home During COVID-19 Home Accessibility Resources Student Resources Top 10 Test Prep Strategies Top 10 Test Prep Strategies Start studying for exams at least 5 days ahead of time. This allows time for the information to sink in and become memorized, as well as gives you time to get extra help if you get stuck. Use the 5-Day Test Prep Method (a classic). Don’t procrastinate your test prep! Proactively do tutoring. Set it up (it’s free through CSAS) in advance and use it to your advantage to maximize your preparation. Use a planner and stick to your schedule. Get organized and set aside blocks of time every day for studying—that will help hold you accountable and make sure you put in the test prep time. Practice makes permanent. Work problems, rewrite notes, review the textbook: repetition will help you learn. Find a place to study that works well for you. Do you need it quiet? Do you like some ambient noise? How tidy does the area need to be? Find a good location—here are some places on campus to try. Recreate the test environment and practice. Time yourself and make yourself work sample problems or answer questions in that time frame. Go to a classroom if you can. The more you can mimic the actual test environment and desensitize yourself to anxiety about it, the less stressed you will be on Test Day. Identify your peak performance time of day and capitalize on this. Are you more alert and focused in the morning, evening, afternoon? Put in your study time during this time of day. Take a 10-15 minute break for each 45 minutes of study time. Do something active during this time (take a quick walk, stretch, jog)—don’t get on your phone or computer and get distracted. Your brain needs time to reset after studying hard, so give it this time and then get back to it. Break your studying into chunks. Thinking about studying the whole textbook can be overwhelming and lead to avoidance. Break your studying into manageable chunks that you will do. Talk to your professor. Go to office hours and ask questions about the exam and structure, and find out how they recommend you best prepare. They are the best source for helping you get ready. Test Preparation Share This Article : Still stuck? How can we help? How can we help? Name: * Email: * Message: * Updated on August 19, 2020 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT