Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Accessible KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About ADA RCEA Select to follow link People Our Mission Contact Accessibility Resources Select to follow link Planning Accessible Events Emergency Evacuation Procedures Content Accessibility ADA Compliance Select to follow link Architectural Barriers Committee Transition Plan Training & Events Select to follow link ADA 30 - Nothing About Us Without Us - A Virtual Celebration With Judith Heumann Select to follow link Event schedule Panelists and Moderators Event media Mentoring Circles for Disability Inclusion Program Training Materials National Disability Employment Awareness Month Events #DisabilityArt Council for Disability Inclusion Panel Intro to Audio Description Accommodations Select to follow link Academic Accommodations Employment Accommodations Housing Resources Parking Special Diets Emotional Support Animal Jaylift Content Accessibility Select to follow link Ally for LMS and Web Documents Select to follow link Scanned Documents Word Documents Excel Documents PowerPoint Presentations PDF Documents Email Video Select to follow link Captioning General Process for Captioning Approved Captioning Vendors YouTube Videos Transcripts Audio Description Web Pages Select to follow link Alt Text for Images Correct use of Headers Links Tables Focus Lists Color Considerations Accessible Forms Resources Select to follow link Campus Resources Community Resources Edwards Campus Resources Local Employment Resources Statewide Resources Parent & Visitor Resources Maps ADA RCEA Best Practice Guidelines for Planning an Accessible Event ADA RCEA Mental Health Resource Guide Videos Select to follow link ADA Impact Videos Hawk Route Videos Past Videos Community Mental Health Supports Select to follow link Campus Resources Community Resources Faculty Resources Mental Health Information Mental Health On Campus Resources for Times of Crisis Policies Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Accessible KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Community Mental Health Supports Campus Resources Campus Resources are places you as a member of the Jayhawk Community can utilize. Discounts are available for students, these resources are located on campus. The resources are listed in alphabetical order. As a reminder, if you or someone you know is in a life threatening crisis please call 9-1-1, if you or someone you know are in a non-life-threatening crisis situation, please call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-8255 or chat with them online. National Suicide Prevention Lifeline Chat Accomodations Accommodations can be requested by individuals with disabilities on campus as both students and employees. Student accommodations are processed through the Student Access Center and employee accommodations are processed through the ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility. Accommodations can be requested for mental health disabilities like anxiety, depression, schizophrenia, borderline personality disorder, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, and more. Accommodations Employee Accommodations Click to expand Review information about the process for seeking a reasonable employee accommodation Our office facilitates reasonable accommodation needs for employees with disabilities. If you are interested in pursuing an accommodation/ adjustment, we will ask you to complete some brief registration forms. Please note, our office does not handle academic accommodations for students with disabilities. If you are a student requiring assistance with making an academic accommodation request, please visit Student Access Services. If you would like to self identity please go to the KU HR website then go to Self Service-->Personal Information-->Disability Academic Accommodations Click to expand The Student Access Center (SAC) coordinates accommodations for students university-wide. It is an individual's choice whether to self-identify, submit documentation, and make the decision about using accommodations. The SAC provides academic accommodations such as in-class accommodations, auxiliary aides, and services (e.g., alternative texts or sign language interpreters). Para-transit is available to students with temporary or permanent mobility impairments who are unable to use the standard buses. The services listed are the ones commonly provided. Accommodations are tailored to a student's need on a case-by-case, course-by-course basis. It is the student's responsibility to self-identify, provide appropriate documentation, and request services in a timely manner. Service Animals and Emotional Support Animals Click to expand Service Animals are protected under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and are not considered accommodations. Emotional Service Animals, however, are protected under the Fair Housing Act (FHA) and are considered accommodations. To reside with your Emotional Support Animal (ESA) on campus, you will need to request an accommodation through the Student Access Center (SAC) or through the ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility (RCEA). For further information on the animals allowed on campus and in buildings, please look at the Animals in Buildings Policy. Campus Resources Campus Resources are places you as a member of the Jayhawk Community can utilize. Discounts are available for students, these resources are located on campus. The resources are listed in alphabetical order. As a reminder, if you or someone you know is in a life-threatening condition, please call 9-1-1. ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility Our mission is to ensure current and prospective students, faculty, staff, and campus visitors with disabilities feel welcomed, supported and fully included in all campus activities, programs, events, and services. We provide individuals with disabilities access to a wealth of campus and community resources, expertise on accessibility, employment accommodations and offer a sense of community. The ADA Resource Center hosts regularly scheduled campus-wide social, educational, and cultural activities on issues of importance to students, faculty, and staff with and without disabilities, and community members with and without disabilities. ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility 1246 West Campus Road, Room #117 Lawrence, KS 66045 Email: accessibility@ku.edu Phone: 785-864-7416 Twitter/Instagram: @KuAccessible Campus Connect Suicide Prevention Training raining for Faculty/Staff Campus Connect is a three-hour interactive training program designed specifically for university community “gatekeepers.” Gatekeepers are campus faculty and staff who are in regular contact with students and as a result of that contact, are in position to recognize students who may be in crisis and refer them to appropriate mental health resources. Identified by the National Suicide Prevention Resource Center and American Foundation for Suicide Prevention as a “best practice” for suicide prevention, in the last decade, Campus Connect has been provided on nearly 200 campuses throughout the U.S. A Campus Connect training session includes discussion of: suicide warning signs, how to talk with students who may be thinking suicide, and how to refer students to mental health services and other resources available to KU students. Contact Campus Connect: Suicide Prevention Training Email:mvm1@ku.edu or visit Watkins Health Services 1200 Schwegler Dr., Room 2100 Lawrence, KS 66045-7538 Phone: 785-864-2277 Office Hours: 8am-5pm M-F Counseling And Psychological Services (CAPS) Students The mission of Counseling and Psychological Services is to aid in the emotional and psychological development of students in the university environment for the purpose of enhancing performance; assist in the evaluation of student academic progress for the purpose of improving student and faculty functioning and; contribute to the professional education of graduate students in mental health and counseling professions. Caps aims to assist students in improving decision-making; identifying and using resources; and achieving academic, social and personal success. Contact Counseling and Psychological Services Watkins Health Services 1200 Schwegler Dr., Room 2100 Lawrence, KS 66045-7538 Phone: 785-864-2277 Office Hours: 8am-5pm M-F Care Coordinator Students The CARE Coordinator offers individualized support for students, education, and advocacy. The Coordinator will assist students in navigating KU and community resources and supports students during reporting for both KU and criminal acts. The CARE Coordinator will also arrange interim measures in academic/housing needs. Merrill Evans Email: care@ku.edu Phone: 785-864-9255 Fraser Clinic – Psychological Clinic Students, Faculty/Staff, Community The KU Psychological Clinic provides a setting for clinical psychology graduate students to receive supervised training in the application, development, and refinement of psychotherapy and assessment skills. In doing so, the Clinic serves the University of Kansas and the greater Lawrence area community by providing an array of high quality, affordable mental health services. The services provided are evidence-based and are routinely reviewed to insure their quality. The Clinic also affords opportunities for psychology faculty and students to conduct research on matters related to the populations it serves. Contact Psychological Clinic Psychological Clinic Department of Psychology 1415 Jayhawk Blvd. Fraser Hall, Room 340 Lawrence, KS 66045-7556 Email: psycl@ku.edu Phone: 785-864-4121 Institutional Opportunity & Access (IOA) Students, Faculty/Staff The Office of Institutional Opportunity and Access (IOA) is responsible for administering the University of Kansas equal opportunity and non-discrimination policies and procedures, as well as, encouraging a campus climate of respect and understanding of all aspects of the human experience. To accomplish these duties, the IOA offers assistance and protective measures to students, faculty, and staff who report acts of harassment, discrimination, sexual misconduct, sexual violence, and retaliation; provides information about health, safety, advocacy, and support resources for members of the Lawrence and Edwards campuses; performs formal investigations to detect, discontinue, and prevent violations of the Non-Discrimination Policy and Sexual Harassment Policy; and ensures University compliance with state and federal civil rights laws. Contact Institutional Opportunity & Access 1082 Dole Human Development Center Lawrence, KS 66045 Email: ioa@ku.edu Phone: 785-864-6414 Legal Services for Students Students The University of Kansas Student Senate provides students enrolled at the Lawrence campus with assistance on commonly occurring legal issues. Through a portion of the campus fees, Student Senate funds a law office on campus - Legal Services for Students. The purpose of the program, which has been on campus since 1979, is to encourage students to seek the advice of an attorney in order to prevent legal difficulties and to provide assistance when students anticipate or encounter legal problems. Legal Services for Students attorneys (or law students working under the supervision of an attorney) interview and advise students regarding legal matters. The office provides three major services: advice, representation and educational programs. Contact Legal Services for Students 2030 Burge Union 1565 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, Kansas 66045-4074 Email: legals@ku.edu Phone: 785-864-5665 Mental Health First for Higher Education Students, Faculty/Staff Mental Health First Aid for Higher Education teaches individuals how to identify, understand and respond to signs of mental illnesses and substance use disorders. This 8-hour training — which focuses on the unique experiences and needs of college students — provides individuals with the skills to provide initial support to individuals that may be experiencing mental health symptoms and/or a substance use issues, and provides help to connect them to appropriate care. If you would like to request a Mental Health First Aid for Higher Education training please email Dr. Michael Maestas. Contact Mental Health First Aid for Higher Education Email:mvm1@ku.edu or visit Watkins Health Services 1200 Schwegler Dr., Room 2100 Lawrence, KS 66045-7538 Email: whs-services@ku.edu Phone: 785-864-2277 Office Hours: 8am-5pm M-F Ombuds Office Students, Faculty/Staff University Ombuds office is a safe place where members of the University of Kansas community can seek informal, independent, confidential and impartial assistance in addressing conflicts, disputes, or complaints on an informal basis without fear of retaliation or judgment. The University Ombuds office adheres to the International Ombudsman Association (IOA) Standards of Practice and Code of Ethics. The original word "ombudsman" has Scandinavian origins and was first used as a public office in Sweden. According to one scholar, the term refers to "a person who has an ear to the people." In American colleges and universities, the office is often referred to as an "agent for justice" within the complex institutional systems of higher education. Contact Ombuds Office Carruth O'Leary hall 1246 W. Campus Road, Rm. 36 Lawrence, KS 66045 Email: ombuds@ku.edu Phone: 785-864-7261 Public Safety KU Public Safety has a goal of having all officers Crisis Intervention Team certified. Officers are also being trained with the Mental Health First Aid Training as well. This is done to ensure that should a crisis occur, any officer would be able to respond. The KU Public Safety Office is also able to contact and request the assistance of the Lawrence Police Department Integrated Crisis Team if needed. The Public Safety Office is the campus security and police department. The Public Safety Office is open Monday through Friday, 8:30 am – 11:30 am and 1:30 pm – 4:30 pm, excluding State of Kansas holidays. Hours are subject to availability of appropriate staff. Contact Us 1501 Crestline Drive Suite 120 l Lawrence, KS 66045 Email:kupso@ku.edu Emergency: 911 Non-Emergency: 785-864-5900 Records Request: 785-864-5900 KU Crime Stoppers: 785-864-8888 Lost and Found: 785-864-5910 Self Help Library Students The Jayhawk Self-Help Library is a conglomeration of resources that can be found around campus or regarding specific topics from culture shock and homesickness to suicide and test anxiety. This resource page is hosted by CAPS in Watkins Health Center. Contact Counseling and Psychological Services Watkins Health Services 1200 Schwegler Dr., Room 2100 Lawrence, KS 66045-7538 Phone: 785-864-2277 Office Hours: 8am-5pm M-F Student Access Center Students Academic Achievement and Access Center documented disabilities to ensure equitable access to educational programs and services. Components of SAS include staff members with expertise in the areas of Learning Disorders/Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorders, Physical Disabilities, Psychological, Chronic Medical or Health disabilities, Deafness & Hard of Hearing and Blindness & Visual Impairment. Student Access Center Open Monday through Friday, 8:00AM-5:00PM 1450 Jayhawk Boulevard Strong Hall, Room 22 Lawrence, KS 66045 Phone: 785-864-4064 Fax: 785-864-2817 Email: achieve@ku.edu2 Student Care Referral Team Students Student Care Referral Team (SCRT), formerly known as Student of Concern Review Team is an interdisciplinary, administrative team that through referrals identifies students who may be experiencing difficulty coping with their environment and/or life circumstance, assesses those referrals for needs and risk, and develops intervention and outreach plans in collaboration with Student Support and Case Management. Contact Student Affairs 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Strong Hall, Room 132 Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Email: studentaffairs@ku.edu Phone: 785-864-4060 Student Conduct & Community Standards Students The Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards addresses incidents of non-academic misconduct on campus and educates students about the Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities. The office seeks to foster a holistic learning environment through education focused on community membership and standards. Contact Student Conduct & Community Standards 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Strong Hall, Room 134 Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Email: kusccs@ku.edu Phone: 785-864-4060 Student Support and Case Management Faculty/Staff to assist Students Student Support and Case Management empowers students to address and overcome barriers in order to achieve their educational and life goals while at the University of Kansas. Using a holistic and strengths-based approach, and in collaboration with campus and community partners, SSCM seeks to provide individuals support to connect students to each other and their communities to create a safer, healthier, and more caring environment. Contact Student Affairs 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Strong Hall, Room 132 Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Email: studentaffairs@ku.edu Phone: 785-864-4060 Student Money Management Students Student Money Management Services (SMMS) is committed to improving KU students' financial situations by empowering them to analyze their finances, make sound decisions, and commit to controlling their financial lives while at the University of Kansas and into the future. Contact Student Money Management Services Summerfield Hall 1300 Sunnyside Ave Suite 350G Lawrence, KS 66045 Email: money@ku.edu Phone: 785-864-1182 Watkins Students, Faculty/Staff Located in Watkins Memorial Health Center, WHS provides comprehensive medical care and outreach programs through a team of dedicated professionals. As a student-focused, student-friendly center, our mission is to advance the quality of life for university students, improving academic performance and increasing retention. The WHS clinicians and staff recognize the importance of personal care and individualized attention and stay current with the ever-changing discipline of collegiate medical services. WHS is a unit within the Office of the Vice Provost for Student Affairs and works with many university departments to maintain our focus on serving students. Watkins Health Services 1200 Schwegler Dr., Room 2100 Lawrence, KS 66045-7538 Email:whs-services@ku.edu33 Phone:785-864-2277 Office Hours: 8am-5pm M-F KU Writing Center Students, Faculty The Writing Center offers a variety of ways for students and members of the community to get feedback on their writing. The Writing Center offers Face-to-Face Consultations (an in person one-on-one meeting with a consultant), Online Consultations (a one-on-one meeting with a consultant done via video chat), and eTutoring (email exchange/feedback with a consultant.) Please let your consultant know if you need an accommodation due to a disability. The University of Kansas KU Writing Center Anschutz Library 1301 Hoch Auditoria Drive, Room 424 Lawrence, KS 66045-7575 Email:writing@ku.edu Phone:785-864-2399 Report Barriers Report Barriers Carruth-O'Leary Hall 1246 W Campus Rd Lawrence, KS 66045 accessibility@ku.edu 785-864-4946 instagram twitter Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.