Skip to main content Web Accessibility at Penn Overview Digital Accessibility Policy News and Updates Testing and Evaluation Testing for Accessibility Automated Testing Manual Testing Design and Usability Testing Resources Resources FAQ Captioning For Developers For Faculty For Content Creators For Designers Working with Vendors Accessible Documents Training and Events Calendar Past Events Need Help? Get Help Report issues or Give Feedback Schedule Training or Consultation Resources Accessible Documents Accessible Documents Checking for PDF Accessibility Document requirements Is the file name free of spaces and/or special characters? Does the document have the Title and Language set in its properties? Was the Table of Contents (TOC) created using the TOC Command? Are page numbering codes being used, instead of adding page numbers manually? Were the Footnotes created using the Insert Footnotes tool? Are links descriptive and free of terms like “Click here” and “Read more”? Do all the links work? Is any information that is conveyed through the use of color available without color? Are scanned pages included as plain text within the same PDF? Are all comments, sticky notes, and review comments removed? Does the tab order match the order in which the document is read in? If the document has multi-column text, tables, or call-out boxes, has it been checked for correct reading order using the Acrobat Pro/Acrobat Reader “Read Aloud” function? Text formatting Does the document use standard system fonts (Times New Roman, Arial, Calibri, Verdana, Georgia)? Does the text have proper color contrast against its background (required ratio is 4.5:1)? Are texts that look like headings tagged as headings? Are headings presented hierarchically (no skipped heading levels)? Were tables made using the Insert Table option? Are tables free of blank and/or merged cells? Do data tables have the first row set as “Header Row” within the Table Properties? Are data cells associated with the Row/Column Header elements? Is “Allow row to break across pages” unchecked under Table Properties? Are all tables labeled and/or described as necessary? Is the document free of layout tables? Are lists created using built-in bullet and list tools instead of manually? Are all table cells, except those associated with the Header Row, designated as data cells? Images and media Is the document free of background images, watermarks, and scanned images of text? Do all images and non-text elements have alternative text? Do all complex images have long descriptions? Are multilayered objects, such as graphs, flattened? Were the Footnotes created using the Insert Footnotes tool? Are links descriptive and free of terms like “Click here” and “Read more”? Do all the links work? Is any information that is conveyed through the use of color available without color? Are scanned pages included as plain text within the same PDF? Are multiple associated images on the same page, like boxes in an organization chart or a timeline, grouped as one object? PDF Resources Accessible PDF Hub US Dept. of Health Section 508 PDF Guide The PDF Accessibility Guide Cornell’s Guide to PDF Accessibility Georgetown University’s PDF Accessibility Guide Using Adobe InDesign to Create Accessibility PDF Documents Adobe InDesign Accessibility Page Did you find this content useful? Yes No How can we improve this content? Can we contact you about your feedback? If so, please enter your email address. CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Resources FAQ Captioning Accessible Multimedia Captioning Vendors Captioning on Live Events Enabling Auto-captions Zoom: Live Transcripts For Developers For Faculty For Content Creators Alternative Text for Complex Images Alternative Text For Designers Working with Vendors Accessible Documents Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help ©2021 University of Pennsylvania