Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Student Accessibility Services Main Menu In this section Register for accommodations Faculty Corner Student Corner Scholarships Home Faculty Corner Faculty Corner Welcome to the Faculty Corner! We compiled this information with professors in mind, as partnership and clear communication between SAS and faculty is essential for the provision of student accommodations. Our desire is to ensure you receive the necessary support as you work with students for their academic and future success. If the information here does not answer your questions or you would like clarification in a specific case, please contact our office. Further information Types of disabilities and common accommodations Large print Information about making documents more accessible. Deaf and hard of hearing ADA seating and testing accommodations The Process Students needing accommodations are responsible for self-identifying and registering with SAS by first completing an application form on AIM, our secure online accommodation management system. Documentation of disability must then be submitted to and verified by SAS. Following submission of documentation, students complete an intake meeting with SAS staff to discuss the limitations resulting from their disability and needed accommodations. After completing the intake, it is the student’s responsibility to request their accommodation letter. Once they have requested, students and faculty receive an accommodation letter via email from AIM. Students are responsible to arrange a time to discuss their accommodations with you. Disclosure of the nature of disability is not required in this conversation; a student’s diagnosed disability is legally protected information under HIPAA and FERPA. The accommodation letter serves as verification that the student has a disability and requires reasonable accommodations. Frequently asked questions What is a syllabus statement and what do I do with it? Each semester Academic Affairs creates a syllabus attachment that includes information about SAS for students with disabilities. We highly encourage you to include the attachment with your syllabi and to make a verbal announcement at the beginning of the semester. For questions regarding the syllabus attachment, contact Academic Affairs at 405-744-5627. If I have a student who seems nervous to disclose a disability, what do you recommend I do? The student does not have to disclose their disability to you, but they must meet with you to discuss their accommodations. The best bet is to approach the student via email and ask if they would like to meet with you to discuss their accommodations. The meeting should preferably be in your office during office hours. If I receive an accommodation letter and I don’t quite understand what it means, who should I contact? Please call us at 405-744-7116 or email the office at accessibility@okstate.edu if you are confused about the meaning of the accommodation listed on the accommodation letter. If I receive an accommodation letter about one of my students, should I wait for the student to approach me? Should I ask for a meeting with the student so we can come up with a plan to make accommodations? It is the student’s responsibility to contact you and arrange a time to discuss the student’s accommodations. The meeting should preferably be in your office during office hours. We recommend a follow-up email to reiterate your meeting and confirm any accommodation arrangements made with the student. This provides you with a paper trail should there be any future questions. If a student asks me for accommodations but I have not received their letter, what do you recommend I do? Ask the student if they are registered and active with our office. If they have not registered with SAS or requested their accommodation letter for the semester, refer them to our office. Accommodations are effective from the date the accommodation letter is sent to you and are not retroactive. Students are advised to request their accommodations at the beginning of the semester or upon registering with SAS. If a student does not submit an accommodation request in a timely manner, you are not obligated to provide retroactive accommodations, though you may do so at your discretion. Home Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©