Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU Inclusive Design 8 Workshop Your Course Content and Environment for Inclusion and Student Success Universal Design: Designing an Inclusive Classroom Top 10 Strategies for Designing an Inclusive Classroom Tips and Examples From TU faculty on Universal Design Strategies for Supporting Students with Autism Spectrum Disorders Promoting Inclusion in Communication and Interaction Poster: Be an Ally 63 steps faculty can take to improve students retention Universal Design 8 Workshop Your Course Content and Environment for Inclusion and Student Success Universal Design: Quick Links Universal Design: Online Resources Universal Design: Designing an Inclusive Classroom Universal Design: Core Competencies Poster: Be an Ally Harvey Content Structure and Standards Accessibility in Harvey/Blackboard Faculty Guides 18 Workshop Your Course Content and Environment for Inclusion and Student Success Universal Design: Quick Links Universal Design: Online Resources Universal Design: Designing an Inclusive Classroom Universal Design: Core Competencies Top 10 Strategies for Designing an Inclusive Classroom Tips for Faculty for Transitioning to In-Person Classes Tips and Examples From TU faculty on Universal Design Strategies for Supporting Students with Autism Spectrum Disorders Harvey Content Structure and Standards FAQ’S for Faculty Faculty Top 10 Strategies for Supporting Students with Accommodations Faculty Strategies for Student Success COVID-19 Resources from NCCSD Clearinghouse COVID-19 and managing mental health Checking Online Classes for Accessibility Accessibility in Harvey/Blackboard 63 steps faculty can take to improve students retention Digital Accessibility 5 Writing Accessible Content in MS Word Tips for Creating Accessible Digital Content Checking Online Classes for Accessibility Accessibility Tools for Users Accessibility From Home During COVID-19 Tips for Allies 5 Poster: Be an Ally People-First Language Disability Language Style Guide Disability Etiquette Tips Accessibility Tips and Awareness Student Resources 24 Using the Syllabus Using Study Groups Top 10 Test Prep Strategies Top 10 Strategies for Test Days Top 10 Academic Strategies Tips for Students in Transitioning to In-Person Classes Tips for Online Class Task Management Tips for Online Learning Stay Connected: Self-Advocacy Online Progressive Muscle Relaxation Learning Styles How to work with your professors successfully How to Use a Planner How to Detect Important Information During Lectures Five Notetaking Methods Exam Preparation Timeline Deep-Breathing Exercises Creating a Schedule for Success COVID-19 Resources from NCCSD Clearinghouse Calculating Your GPA Becoming a “planner person” ADHD Notetaking Tips 5-Day Test Prep Plan 3 Reasons to Get a Tutor COVID-19 5 Tips for Students in Transitioning to In-Person Classes Tips for Faculty for Transitioning to In-Person Classes COVID-19 Resources from NCCSD Clearinghouse COVID-19 and managing mental health Accessibility From Home During COVID-19 Home Accessibility Resources COVID-19 Tips for Faculty for Transitioning to In-Person Classes Tips for Faculty for Transitioning to In-Person Classes We surveyed TU students for feedback on how instructors can assist them with the transition back to in-person classes after being virtual during the pandemic. Here are their suggestions (bolded are the most frequently endorsed): Some students really enjoyed aspects of remote learning and thrived during this period. They may need more encouragement and coaching during the transition than usual. Provide explicit explanations in the syllabus about how you plan to teach the course and what you do and do not allow, particularly for policies and practices that are different than last year. For example, if recording is not allowed, let them know and explain why (e.g., for confidentiality). Give exams or quizzes within the same class in the same format and style. Try to align design as well as content for reading consistency. Use the grade book feature in Harvey to post grades and feedback on an ongoing basis, rather than just for midterm and final grading. Record and post lecture audio, video, and/or slides or notes as many students reported that they were able to learn more efficiently when they could watch and re-watch lectures. Alternatively, allow all students to record classes themselves. Permit the use of laptops/tablets for taking notes. Students are more accustomed to note-taking by computer now. Consider how you follow up with students who arrive to class late or seem unprepared. They may have a health reason for being late or unprepared, or may have acclimated to a flexible format during the pandemic. Often, following up in private via email, phone, video-chat, or in person can be more effective. Provide some flexibility with attendance and engagement. Students report that the flexibility has made a huge difference in their performance during the pandemic. As the pandemic continues, more students than usual will miss classes; prepare ahead of time to offer multiple methods of engagement and participation. For example, students who miss discussion could be required to write or record a reading response as a make-up exercise. Allow students to ease back into paper and pencil assessments (e.g., offer low stakes assessments in a format that aligns with higher stakes assessments, offer alternative assessment formats if feasible). Students report a lot of anxiety about changing to this after becoming accustomed to online learning. Tips to Help Faculty with the Transition to In-Person Classes We surveyed TU faculty and staff for tips for faculty to help transition back to in-person classes successfully, summarized below: Be prepared to offer a lot of grace and patience as this is an adjustment period. This does not mean that expectations need to be tempered or rigor watered down, but that the transition will be challenging for everyone. Know that you may get more requests for changes and alternatives than is typical. Teach in a way that is most conducive for your pedagogical style because you are the expert in the way you deliver your content, but try to plan ahead to be ready for students who will need to quarantine and pivot to remote options, for example. Continue offering office hours both virtually and in person if possible. Many students report anxiety about physically coming in to see instructors. In many cases, we have seen attendance go to 100% when virtual participation in classes or meetings was permitted. Regularly remind students of your office hours and that they may send you an email if they have questions. Some students are anxious about asking for help and your encouragement can help them over this hurdle. Be as transparent as possible about student standing in your class. Share feedback early and often. Talk about accessibility and assistance available regularly. There are many services (Student Access, counseling, tutoring, etc.) and the amount of information can overwhelm students to where they don’t remember what is available, especially if they feel they are in a crisis. Here is a sample script you can use and modify, per your classroom policies, to talk about accessibility in class: “I am committed to helping you be successful in this class. If you have any needs or concerns about participation or attendance that arise, such as illness, family emergencies, etc., please contact me as early as practical so I can try to assist you. It is important that you communicate with me so I can best help you. I have attendance and participation policies and expectations in place to help you with accountability and staying on track. I have found that regular participation and attendance is related to success in my class. Additionally, coming on time and prepared will set you up to do well in my class. However, life does happen and sometimes an adjustment is warranted. Please contact me if you need help. Also know that I may privately reach out to you if I am concerned about your participation or attendance because I care and want to see you succeed. I am here for you in office hours, both in person and virtually, and please feel free to call me or email me. I may need up to ___ hours/days to respond to you because of my responsibilities, but this does not mean I am ignoring you. Be assured that I will respond to you. If you know that you work best with certain formats, such as having access to readings electronically or in hard copy, or having captioning, please let me know and I will try to provide alternative formats that will work best for you. If you would benefit from audio recording lectures so that you can go back and check your notes, let me know. If you sign a waiver with me, you can do this.  I want to make sure you are aware that there are many support services available to you for free on campus. The links in your syllabus for more information about tutoring, success coaching, personal counseling, and skills workshops will give you details about how to access this assistance. I strongly encourage all students to utilize these resources early and often. If you set them up now, they will be in place if you do get into a tough spot and they really do make a difference. Learning to utilize resources is an important life skill, so I encourage you to start now.  Finally, I want to touch on how to monitor your grade in this class. Self-monitoring your progress in your classes helps you with accountability and staying on top of things. You should have some awareness of your course grade during the semester. (explain how to do this for your class here).” Be honest and transparent about how quickly students can expect you to respond to their emails. Many students have reported stress if they do not hear back the same day and so letting them know this does not mean you are ignoring them can help reassure them that you will help them, but it may take a little longer than they expect as everyone is stretched thin during the transition. Faculty have discretion over their classes and are allowed to make changes to accommodate student requests and needs if they think this is necessary or helpful. You do not need permission to make modifications to help students, such as giving extensions or excusing absences. Faculty have control over their classes and decisions about making modifications. As always, all instructors may learn about inclusive and universal design strategies and find tips to use in class.   These tips were prepared by the Accessibility Standards Committee, made up of students, faculty, and staff. Academic Strategies Share This Article : Still stuck? How can we help? How can we help? Name: * Email: * Message: * Updated on August 4, 2021 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT