Skip to main content University of Wisconsin–Madison UW Crest Accessibility @ UW-Madison Working to create an accessible university Search Menu open menu close Home Training Guides Your role Services About Report an accessibility barrier Request an accommodation Contact A centralized location for accessibility and disability resources “It takes all of us - faculty, staff, and students - to do our part to design an inclusive and accessible university.” —Ruben Mota, ADA Coordinator Start today! Providing the university community the information they need to design an accessible environment. Ensuring equal access to programs, services, and events for people with disabilities is our shared responsibility towards right-doing and benefits everyone. Information for people with disabilities, whether a student, employee, program participant, or visitor, to request reasonable accommodations. Assistance for students Services, guidance, and assistance for students to independently and robustly participate in the activities they want to at UW-Madison. Students Make my content accessible For your webpages or other digital content. Digital accessibility Assistance for employees Ways faculty and staff can help create a more inclusive university. Accessibility is everyone’s role at UW-Madison. Faculty and staff Plan an accessible event How to make sure everyone can access your event. Physical accessibility Top tasks Training Learn how to create a more accessible UW-Madison. Including training for All UW-Madison employees, faculty, management/supervisors, those interested in making a more accessible university. Training More Guidance Guidance to help understand our shared role of inclusivity through accessibility at UW-Madison, including how to make it happen. Your role, digital accessibility, accessible facilities, and how to get around. Guides More Services Available accessibility services to the UW-Madison community addressing accommodations, facilities, transportation, designing for accessibility, academic research, fitness and recreation. Accessibility Services More Report an accessibility barrier Accessibility is a shared commitment for all Badgers. If you know of a barrier you can make a report to participate in the work to improve our university. Report a barrier More UW-Madison values the contributions of each person and respects the profound ways their identify, culture, background, experience, status, abilities and opinion enrich the university community. It takes all of us to achieve the university’s mission by creating a welcoming and inclusive community for people from every background. Inside UW article - New website provides a central location for campus accessibility answers In conversation with ADA coordinator Ruben Mota This article highlights the inspiration for and work that went into creating this new accessibility resource website for the university. Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Accessibility partners Office of Compliance Center for User Experience McBurney Disability Resource Center Facilites Planning and Management Employee Disability Resources Office More partners Guides Students Faculty & Staff Your role The impact of accessibility How to request an accommodation Report an accessibility barrier Policy Contact Us Office of Compliance 361 Bascom Hall 500 Lincoln Drive Madison, WI 53706 Map map marker Email: ada_coordinator@wisc.edu Phone: (608) 265-4508 Website feedback, questions or accessibility issues: ada_coordinator@wisc.edu. Learn more about accessibility at UW–Madison. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | © 2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.