Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Digital Accessibility Search Training Accessibility Trainings On-Demand Training Videos Resources For Content Creators For Developers For Managers Accessibility Testing Multimedia Accessibility Documents Technology Procurement Accessibility Services and Labs Techniques Disabilities Assistive Technologies Elements Technologies Principles Policies Digital Accessibility Policy Procurement and Development Settlement Caption Requirements FAQs About DAS Home Page Hero Text HTML HUIT Digital Accessibility Get Started Quick start guide ➜ We all have a role to play in making Harvard’s digital information more accessible. Start here, and get going. Content Creators ➜ Guidelines and resources to make your content accessible. Developers ➜ Best Practices and guides for making your applications and tools broadly accessible. DIGITAL ACCESSIBILITY SERVICES Digital Accessibility Services (DAS) supports the Harvard community in making sure that everyone has the opportunity to access the university’s knowledge, ideas, and resources. Meet the DAS team ➜ University Disability Resources For access to all other disability-related resources and guidance for students, faculty, staff, visitors and guests, please visit University Disability Resources ➜ Upcoming Event DAS Summer Open House! Friday, June 10, 2022 10:00am to 12:00pm Virtual - Zoom Looking to explore digital accessibility, but unsure where to begin? Want to learn along with others who have similar questions, but in a casual, fun, and non-judgemental way? Our (virtual) doors are open! Stop by the Digital Accessibility Services (DAS) Summer Open House on June 10 from 10am-12pm to meet the DAS team and learn more about the services and resources we provide. There will also be a “Choose your own adventure” breakout session, where you’ll be able to join a discussion on a particular topic that interests you: Documents, Multimedia, or General Accessibility Questions. Learn more and find the Zoom link Digital Accessibility Services Office Hours Got accessibility questions? Not sure where to start? We're here to help! The Digital Accessibility Services (DAS) team is available to answer your questions and provide guidance and support to the Harvard community. We will be holding open office hours in a Zoom meeting room on the 2nd and 4th Fridays of each month from 10am-12pm. 2022 Jun 10 DAS Summer Open House 10:00am to 12:00pm 2022 Jun 24 DAS Office Hours 10:00am to 12:00pm 2022 Jul 08 DAS Office Hours 10:00am to 12:00pm All Upcoming DAS Office Hours<embed> Iframe Embed code <script type="text/javascript" src="//accessibility.huit.harvard.edu/profiles/openscholar/modules/os/modules/os_boxes/misc/os_boxes.resize_parent.js"></script>
<iframe class="web-widgets-iframe" src="//accessibility.huit.harvard.edu/widget/embed/1585845283/iframe" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" width="100%"></iframe>
 Copy and paste this code to your website. Instructor-Led Trainings and On-Demand Videos 2022 Jun 06 Digital Accessibility Level II: Orientation 11:00am to 11:50am 2022 Jun 07 Creating Accessible PDFs 10:00am to 12:00pm 2022 Jun 09 Web Accessibility for Developers 10:00am All Training Events On-Demand Training Videos by Topic A curated series of on-demand training videos that provide quick overviews of popular accessibility topics. Introduction to Accessibility Digital Content Documents Design and Development Policy Testing All Training Videos ➜ How to check a website's accessibility Automated Tools Automated tools evaluate a website’s code and content, flag accessibility issues, and often provide guidance on how to fix the issues. These tools save time for both developers and content creators, and they often catch errors that might not be obvious. Harvard-Licensed Tool: Siteimprove Free Automated tools Manual Testing After you’ve done a first pass with automated tools, you’ll need to follow up with manual testing to make sure your website is inclusive and accessible. Content Review Keyboard Testing Screen Reader Review Harvard Policies Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy ➜ For Harvard’s public-facing websites and web-based applications. Settlement Caption Requirements ➜ Harvard's legal obligation requirements for captions. Accessible Technology Procurement and Development Policy ➜ For technology applications and products we buy and develop. Resources Working with Vendors Procurement Policy Procurement Process and Contract Riders Selecting a Website Vendor Media Accessibility Closed-Captioning Services Captioning Approaches FAQs for Harvard Affiliates Labs, Services, and Contacts Digital Accessibility Services (DAS) Digital Accessibility Liaisons (DALs) User Research Center University Disability Resources View All Accessibility Resources ➜ Digital Accessibility Techniques Library of Accessibility Techniques Browse a comprehensive library of how-to guides with practical examples and code snippets to help you create accessible content and code. Explore Accessibility Techniques ➜ ✎ Technique: Site search ✎ Technique: Status messages ✎ Technique: Reflow ✎ Technique: Orientation News from the Harvard Gazette Increasing digital accessibility University policy to ‘make information and resources more easily available to those who need it’ Harvard has adopted a new, University-wide Digital Accessibility Policy, which will increase the accessibility of Harvard’s public-facing websites and web-based applications, as well as the digital content Harvard creates and posts on those sites. Read article ➜ Siteimprove Usability script Custom JS jquery section expander Site-wide CSS Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement