Skip to main content Web Accessibility at Penn Overview Digital Accessibility Policy News and Updates Testing and Evaluation Testing for Accessibility Automated Testing Manual Testing Design and Usability Testing Resources Resources FAQ Captioning For Developers For Faculty For Content Creators For Designers Working with Vendors Accessible Documents Training and Events Calendar Past Events Need Help? Get Help Report issues or Give Feedback Schedule Training or Consultation Resources For Faculty For Faculty All students must be able to obtain information fully, equally, and independently, regardless of disability. Faculty are key to ensuring this is possible. When creating electronic instructional materials, such as slides, documents, or videos, implement these standards to ensure an inclusive learning environment. Review the Universal Design for Learning Guidelines for a great foundation on how to make your classroom accessible to all learners. Electronic Documents Text appearance: Use standard, non-decorative fonts. Use at least 12 point font size. Use at least 1.4 line-spacing. Avoid use of light color text. Content: Avoid using color as a way of coding information. For example, "See the highlighted text at the bottom of this page." Include alternative text for all images, or mark images as decorative if they do not provide additional context. Be descriptive with links and avoid titling links "click here." Structure: Use headings in your word processor's formatting pane to structure your content. Do this instead of making your text larger and bolder from the styling pane. Break up large paragraphs of text with bullet lists and headings. Go to Accessible Documents for more information and resources. Canvas Resources Accessibility within Canvas General Accessibility Design Guidelines How do I use the Accessibility Checker in the Rich Content Editor as an instructor? How do I view captions in a video as an instructor? How do I add captions to new or uploaded videos in Canvas as an instructor? Creating Accessible Tables in the Rich Content Editor How do I use the HTML view in the Rich Content Editor as an instructor? Did you find this content useful? Yes No How can we improve this content? Can we contact you about your feedback? If so, please enter your email address. CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. Resources FAQ Captioning Accessible Multimedia Captioning Vendors Captioning on Live Events Enabling Auto-captions Zoom: Live Transcripts For Developers For Faculty For Content Creators Alternative Text for Complex Images Alternative Text For Designers Working with Vendors Accessible Documents Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help ©2021 University of Pennsylvania