Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Accessible KU myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About ADA RCEA Select to follow link People Our Mission Contact Accessibility Resources Select to follow link Planning Accessible Events Emergency Evacuation Procedures Content Accessibility ADA Compliance Select to follow link Architectural Barriers Committee Transition Plan Training & Events Select to follow link ADA 30 - Nothing About Us Without Us - A Virtual Celebration With Judith Heumann Select to follow link Event schedule Panelists and Moderators Event media Mentoring Circles for Disability Inclusion Program Training Materials National Disability Employment Awareness Month Events #DisabilityArt Council for Disability Inclusion Panel Intro to Audio Description Accommodations Select to follow link Academic Accommodations Employment Accommodations Housing Resources Parking Special Diets Emotional Support Animal Jaylift Content Accessibility Select to follow link Ally for LMS and Web Documents Select to follow link Scanned Documents Word Documents Excel Documents PowerPoint Presentations PDF Documents Email Video Select to follow link Captioning General Process for Captioning Approved Captioning Vendors YouTube Videos Transcripts Audio Description Web Pages Select to follow link Alt Text for Images Correct use of Headers Links Tables Focus Lists Color Considerations Accessible Forms Resources Select to follow link Campus Resources Community Resources Edwards Campus Resources Local Employment Resources Statewide Resources Parent & Visitor Resources Maps ADA RCEA Best Practice Guidelines for Planning an Accessible Event ADA RCEA Mental Health Resource Guide Videos Select to follow link ADA Impact Videos Hawk Route Videos Past Videos Community Mental Health Supports Select to follow link Campus Resources Community Resources Faculty Resources Mental Health Information Mental Health On Campus Resources for Times of Crisis Policies Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Accessible KU Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Training & Events Mentoring Circles for Disability Inclusion Program 2019-2020 Mentoring Circles for Disability Inclusion will broaden mentees’ perspectives on disability inclusion, provide knowledge, technical assistance, and expertise on disability inclusion, and provide opportunities for mentees to use this new perspective to change and improve disability inclusion within their own workplace and campus. The mentoring circles for disability inclusion program brings together University of Kansas employees who have an interest in growing their knowledge of disability inclusion with a mentor. The program presumes that individual participants will have varying levels of knowledge and experience of inclusion. All interested are encouraged to participate in the program. Please submit your application as soon as possible, enrollment is limited to twenty-four mentees. The application deadline is October 4th, 2019. Mentees will be group into one of four mentoring circles, with six individuals in each circle. Catherine E. Johnson, Director of the ADA Resource Center for Equity and Accessibility will serve as the primary mentor to all mentees, mentees will also serve as peer mentors for each other within their mentoring circle. The mentoring circle gives participants the opportunity to network with and learn from not only the mentor, but their peers as well. Each Mentoring Circle will also be paired with a coach. The coach will provide assistance and support their circle throughout the seven week training period. Mentees will meet weekly for disability inclusion trainings, discussions, technical assistance, and professional support and development. Disability inclusion projects will be provided to each mentoring circle, to complete and report back to the full group at the start of the next class. Topics covered will include an overview of the history of the disability rights movement, the Americans with Disabilities Act, employment accommodations, microaggressions, and proactively creating an accessible workplace. Time Commitment Participants in MCDI 2020 should expect to spend four hours in each class, anywhere from 15 minutes to two hours in prep work before each class. Classes will be held from 1-5pm on; January 31, 2020 February 7, 2020 February 14, 2020 February 21, 2020 February 28, 2020 March 6, 2020 March 20, 2020. Requirements In order to receive certification as an Ambassador for Proactive Disability Inclusion participants must do the following; Attend 6/7 classes Complete in class trainings and any outside projects Attend at least one Lunchtime Conversation hosted by the ADA RCEA or the October National Disability Employment Awareness Celebration, date TBD. September 26, co-sponsored with KU School of Law - Issues of the Character and Fitness Exam and Mental Health in Law School October 17th, hosted in the OMA – Mental Health in College Students and Information gained through the CARE Referral Team November 21, co-sponsored with KU Med Center – Autism and Mental Health Spring Lunchtime conversation dates and topics to be released at a later date. Create and implement a Capstone Project Attend “Meet your Coach Day” on November 21st from 10-11 Recommend two people to be members in the program in 2021. Attend annual Mentoring Circles for Disability Inclusion Summit Topics What is Disability? Intersectionality of Disability as Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion History of the Treatment of Individuals with disabilities in the U.S. History of the Disability Rights Movement Microaggressions People First Language Accommodations in an Academic and Employment setting Service Animals and the Accommodation process Creating accessible; physical spaces, digital content, social media posts, and events Accessible technology Creating proactive and inclusive environments Certification During the last training, participants will be recognized as Ambassadors for Proactive Disability Inclusion. Ambassadors will receive a certificate, door sign, and brailed business cards which identifies their proactive focus on disability inclusion in their workplace and on campus. This program is also available on MyTalent as a learning development module. Report Barriers Report Barriers Carruth-O'Leary Hall 1246 W Campus Rd Lawrence, KS 66045 accessibility@ku.edu 785-864-4946 instagram twitter Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.