Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU University Disability Resources COVID-19 Resources LDC Portal FAQs Accommodation Statement About Search General Inquiries Student Accommodations Workplace Accommodations Effective Communication Ergonomics Housing Service and Assistance Animals Parking & Transportation Grievance Procedure Digital Access Academic Alternative Format Assistive Tech Lending Captioning Inclusive Content Creation and Delivery Innovation Pilot Projects Usability Testing Campus Access Campus Map Getting Around Construction and Renovation Event Planning At the Event Emergency Planning Publicity Materials Space Selection Tools & Resources Newsletter Student Coordinators Vendors & Service Providers Ombuds Professional Organizations Frequently Asked Questions HOME / DIGITAL ACCESS / Assistive Tech Lending University Disability Resources (UDR) manages the Assistive Technology Lending Library and Lab (ATLLL) in the Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Suite 900. The ATLLL is a community resource technology and learning lab. The lab provides short term and long term equipment loans, software licenses* and user testing. To schedule an appointment, please email disabilityresources@harvard.edu or call 617-495-1859. Full-time degree seeking students that need academic reasonable accommodations must first register with their school’s Local Disability Coordinator (LDC). Local Disability Coordinators will facilitate the reasonable accommodation exploration process and make referrals, as needed. Partial Inventory Selection: The ATLLL has a variety of software and equipment. Some items listed below are available for extended loans or licenses while others are specified for in-lab use. To inquire about a loan or license, please email disabilityresources@harvard.edu. Software SensusAccess Kurzweil 1000 Kurzweil 3000 Otter.ai JAWS ZoomText *Software licenses are available to Harvard students specifically related to limitations or barriers they encounter in the format or delivery of the educational experience, as determined with their Local Disability Coordinator (LDC), or staff on behalf of the LDC, including the Academic Technology Center (ATC) staff. LDCs can access the software request process on the LDC Portal. Equipment Optelec ClearView+ CCTV Assistive Listening Devices Standard and Bariatric Wheelchair RollerBar Mouse Wireless Mic and Headset Freestyle 2 Convertible Keyboard Portable Sound System Digital Access Captioning Academic Alternative Format Assistive Tech Lending Usability Testing Innovation Pilot Projects Accessible Documents Inclusive Content Creation and Delivery Contact Us Harvard University Disability Resources Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Suite 900. | 617-495-1859 | TTY: 617-496-0466 | Fax: 617-495-8520 | disabilityresources@harvard.edu| Directions to our office Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement