Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Accessibility Resources at Yale Campus Access Accommodations Instruction Digital Access Affinity Groups Contacts Welcome We strive to provide full accessibility to all Yale community members and visitors with disabilities. Yale University is committed to providing equal access to and full participation in its programs and activities to people with disabilities. This website serves as a central landing page to access related websites at Yale. Many links on this page will bring you to another site with relevant accessibility information. Report a Disability-Related Accessibility Barrier For Fire/Security/Medical Emergencies or Environmental Health/Safety Emergencies, please call 911 or 203-432-4400. Yale strives to provide accessibility to its programs and activities for persons with disabilities. Any accessibility concerns may be submitted via the Report a Disability-Related Accessibility Barrier Form. If you have encountered a disability-related accessibility barrier on any Yale campus location, you may use this form to report it. Your submission will be sent to the appropriate office, which will follow up to confirm receipt of the form and gather additional information as necessary. If you are having any difficulty completing the form, need assistance, or wish to submit information by alternate means, please contact the Office of Institutional Equity and Access at 203-432-0849 or equity@yale.edu. If you want to report a problem related to a Yale website, please use the Web Accessibility Comments Form. Upcoming Events June 2, 2022 - 12:00pm DAY Monthly Meeting June 14, 2022 - 12:00pm Myths and Facts about Mental Illness June 18, 2022 - 12:00pm Juneteenth New Haven 2022 Submit an Event Yale Accessibility Policies Web Accessibility Policy Service Animals and Emotional Support Animals Policy Yale Facilities Access Guidelines Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved