Princeton University Twitter LinkedIn Facebook YouTube Mobile Menu Andlinger Center for Energy + the Environment About Learn about the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment and its mission, hear from our director, read the latest in news from the center, explore our building and its facilities, check out our events calendar, and discover other programs and activities happening within the center. Director’s Message Related Programs Building Opportunities Contact Newsletter Videos Annual Reports News News Archive Andlinger Center Speaks Events Events Archive Highlight Seminar Series Annual Meeting People Meet our leadership team, staff, jointly appointed faculty members, research scholars, visiting faculty, and postdoctoral research associates. Other key constituents at the center include members of our External Advisory Committee and Executive Committee, as well as associated faculty members. Leadership Team and Staff Faculty and Scholars Associated Faculty and Research Scholars Gerhard R. Andlinger Visiting Fellows & Non-Resident Fellows Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Executive Committee External Advisory Council Research Browse our research directory to learn about the expertise of our faculty. View abstracts of Andlinger-funded research. Learn about funding opportunities for research projects. Core Built Environment, Transportation + Infrastructure Electricity Production, Transmission + Storage Fuels + Chemicals Environmental Sensing + Remediation In Partnership Decision + Behavioral Science, Policy + Economics Environmental + Climate Science Research Directory Call for Proposals for Innovative Research in Energy and the Environment Gerhard R. Andlinger Visiting Fellows Program Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Energy Systems Analysis Group Education Discover the many courses on energy and environmental issues that Princeton University and the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment have to offer. Enroll in our certificate programs and apply for special student opportunities, such as internships, fellowships, and research funding. Education homepage Undergraduate Courses in Energy and the Environment Fall 2022 ENE Course Offerings Graduate Courses in Energy and the Environment Maeder Graduate Fellowship Internship Opportunities and Student Research Funding Certificate Programs Program in Sustainable Energy Program of Study Application Form Faculty Program in Technology and Society: Energy Track Program of Study Application Form Faculty Rapid Switch Rapid Switch is a solutions-focused, international research effort led by the Andlinger Center for the Energy and the Environment that aims to identify a realistic pace and pathways for decarbonizing the world, sector by sector, and region by region. Rapid Switch Home About People News + Resources In the News Rapid Switch Projects Rapid Switch Australia Rapid Switch China Rapid Switch India Rapid Switch United States Distillates Energy Technology Distillates is a series of publications that provide succinct yet substantive information about emerging topics in energy and the environment. Geared for policymakers, educators, students, and interested citizens, the briefings combine technological, economic, and policy considerations. Wind Power Sunlight to Electricity Fusion Energy via Magnetic Confinement Small Modular Reactors Grid-scale Electricity Storage Downloads E-ffiliates Princeton E-ffiliates Partnership, a membership-based program, offers corporations a unique opportunity to engage in big-picture thinking and to find innovative solutions in energy and the environment. Member companies engage in close collaborations with academic experts to pursue transformational innovations. E-ffiliates news About E-ffiliates Members Become a member E-ffiliates Activities Annual Meeting Close Menu undergraduate certificate programs in energy and the environment Education homepage Undergraduate Courses Fall 2022 ENE Course Offerings Internship Opportunities and Student Research Funding Graduate Courses Maeder Graduate Fellowship Certificate Programs Program in Sustainable Energy Program in Technology and Society: Energy Track Program in Sustainable Energy Overview The Program in Sustainable Energy is designed for Princeton undergraduate students who are interested in pursuing careers or graduate education in the area of Sustainable Energy Science and Technology. Students completing the program can expect to achieve: An understanding of current energy resources, carriers, end users, technologies, and their impact on climate and environment. The ability to quantitatively analyze, design, and develop innovative energy systems and technologies that support sustainable economic growth, energy security, biological diversity, and environmental harmony for life on Earth. An understanding of Earth, global climate, and environmental change from the perspective of engineering, technology, economics, and policy. The future of societies, the global economy, and the global environment depend on collaborative research into renewable energy, alternative fuels, advanced energy conversion and storage systems, technology transfer to developing countries, and prudent judgment on policies to support sustainable energy technology. Innovations and inventions require multi-disciplinary approaches and entrepreneurship, as well as grounding in theory and practice, in topics that are not covered by a single department. This certificate program offers an integrated set of core and elective courses, introducing students to fundamental concepts, providing depth in specific fields of interest, gaining laboratory and site visit experiences, and setting the stage for further work in the field. Students are encouraged to expand their experience through summer internships with companies, government agencies, national and university laboratories, and Princeton faculty. Admission to the Program The program is open to sophomores, juniors and seniors at Princeton University who have a satisfactory background in engineering and science. Normally, students should have successfully completed MAT103, MAT104, PHY103, PHY104 (or their equivalents, including AP equivalents). Students who have slightly different preparation should consult with the Program Director to discuss eligibility. A student planning to earn the program certificate should complete the Program Enrollment Form as early as possible, but no later than the mid-point of the fall term of his or her junior year. Application for admission is made to the Program Committee. Upon acceptance to the program, the Program Director will recommend a program advisor to the student to assist in planning a program of study, research, and off-campus internship. Program of Study Application Form Faculty Education homepage Undergraduate Courses Fall 2022 ENE Course Offerings Internship Opportunities and Student Research Funding Graduate Courses Maeder Graduate Fellowship Certificate Programs Program in Sustainable Energy Program in Technology and Society: Energy Track Address: Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment 86 Olden Street Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Andlinger Center Newsletter Signup Enter your email address to be added to our monthly newsletter. Leave this field empty if you're human: Princeton University School of Engineering & Applied Science © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University and the School of Engineering and Applied Science