Princeton University Twitter LinkedIn Facebook YouTube Mobile Menu Andlinger Center for Energy + the Environment About Learn about the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment and its mission, hear from our director, read the latest in news from the center, explore our building and its facilities, check out our events calendar, and discover other programs and activities happening within the center. Director’s Message Related Programs Building Opportunities Contact Newsletter Videos Annual Reports News News Archive Andlinger Center Speaks Events Events Archive Highlight Seminar Series Annual Meeting People Meet our leadership team, staff, jointly appointed faculty members, research scholars, visiting faculty, and postdoctoral research associates. Other key constituents at the center include members of our External Advisory Committee and Executive Committee, as well as associated faculty members. Leadership Team and Staff Faculty and Scholars Associated Faculty and Research Scholars Gerhard R. Andlinger Visiting Fellows & Non-Resident Fellows Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Executive Committee External Advisory Council Research Browse our research directory to learn about the expertise of our faculty. View abstracts of Andlinger-funded research. Learn about funding opportunities for research projects. Core Built Environment, Transportation + Infrastructure Electricity Production, Transmission + Storage Fuels + Chemicals Environmental Sensing + Remediation In Partnership Decision + Behavioral Science, Policy + Economics Environmental + Climate Science Research Directory Call for Proposals for Innovative Research in Energy and the Environment Gerhard R. Andlinger Visiting Fellows Program Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Energy Systems Analysis Group Education Discover the many courses on energy and environmental issues that Princeton University and the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment have to offer. Enroll in our certificate programs and apply for special student opportunities, such as internships, fellowships, and research funding. Education homepage Undergraduate Courses in Energy and the Environment Fall 2022 ENE Course Offerings Graduate Courses in Energy and the Environment Maeder Graduate Fellowship Internship Opportunities and Student Research Funding Certificate Programs Program in Sustainable Energy Program of Study Application Form Faculty Program in Technology and Society: Energy Track Program of Study Application Form Faculty Rapid Switch Rapid Switch is a solutions-focused, international research effort led by the Andlinger Center for the Energy and the Environment that aims to identify a realistic pace and pathways for decarbonizing the world, sector by sector, and region by region. Rapid Switch Home About People News + Resources In the News Rapid Switch Projects Rapid Switch Australia Rapid Switch China Rapid Switch India Rapid Switch United States Distillates Energy Technology Distillates is a series of publications that provide succinct yet substantive information about emerging topics in energy and the environment. Geared for policymakers, educators, students, and interested citizens, the briefings combine technological, economic, and policy considerations. Wind Power Sunlight to Electricity Fusion Energy via Magnetic Confinement Small Modular Reactors Grid-scale Electricity Storage Downloads E-ffiliates Princeton E-ffiliates Partnership, a membership-based program, offers corporations a unique opportunity to engage in big-picture thinking and to find innovative solutions in energy and the environment. Member companies engage in close collaborations with academic experts to pursue transformational innovations. E-ffiliates news About E-ffiliates Members Become a member E-ffiliates Activities Annual Meeting Close Menu https://acee.princeton.edu/acee-news/google-ge-clearpath-have-joined-new-princeton-research-consortium-focusing-on-low-carbon-technology/ Google, GE, ClearPath have joined new Princeton research consortium focusing on low-carbon technology The consortium, led by Princeton’s ZERO lab, aligns with the corporate membership program Princeton E-ffiliates Partnership, and brings together corporations and researchers focused on scalable clean energy technologies. Learn More https://acee.princeton.edu/acee-news/bioengineer-and-metabolic-engineering-expert-jose-avalos-promoted-to-associate-professor/ Bioengineer and metabolic engineering expert José Avalos promoted to associate professor Avalos, a pioneer of optogenetics, has been promoted to associate professor of chemical and biological engineering and the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment, effective July 1. Learn More https://acee.princeton.edu/acee-news/princeton-research-is-pursuing-a-sustainable-future-for-new-jersey-and-the-world/ Princeton research is pursuing a sustainable future for New Jersey and the world N.J. provides fertile ground for Princeton University researchers. The state’s four geological regions and its mix of urban, rural and suburban communities allow Princeton faculty, staff and students to develop environmental and climate solutions on their home turf that address an array of global concerns. Learn More https://acee.princeton.edu/acee-news/princeton-startup-aims-to-fast-track-lithium-battery-recycling/ Princeton startup aims to fast-track lithium battery recycling Currently, there is no cost-effective process to revive the billions of cellphone and laptop batteries that are discarded. Now Princeton researchers have developed an inexpensive, sustainable way to make new batteries from used ones and have spun off a company to scale up the innovation. Learn More https://acee.princeton.edu/acee-news/net-zero-america-how-state-policymakers-can-use-data-from-princetons-pioneering-study-to-meet-climate-goals/ Net-Zero America: How state policymakers can use data from Princeton’s pioneering study to meet climate goals How many electric vehicles should be on the road in each state, and across the country, in 2030, 2040 and 2050 to meet climate goals? How much land will be needed for solar or wind farms? How large will the energy-sector workforce need to be? Learn More http://acee.princeton.edu/about/ Learn about our mission The Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment at Princeton University is a multidisciplinary research and education center, whose singular mission is to develop technologies and solutions to better our energy and environmental future. Learn More http://acee.princeton.edu/research/ Collaborate with us on research From the next generation of solar photovoltaics to fuels generated using artificial photosynthesis, the researchers at the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment are working on many promising technologies and solutions that will pave the way for a world less reliant on fossil fuels. Learn More http://acee.princeton.edu/education/ Explore our education programs Through courses, certificate programs, and lectures, students are able to learn about sustainable energy technologies, renewable energy sources, and their complex, intertwining connections to policies, economics, and human behavior. And there are many opportunities for hands-on learning through field work and classes where students can fabricate and investigate materials and devices. Learn More https://acee.princeton.edu/e-ffiliates/benefits/ Become an E-ffiliates member To foster transformational changes in energy and the environment, the world needs academic and industry experts working together on innovative research that become practical, market-ready solutions. Our corporate affiliates program, the Princeton E-ffiliates Partnership, answers this call. Learn More http://acee.princeton.edu/distillates/ Read our Distillates To educate beyond Princeton Universtiy, the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment offers the Energy Technology Distillates. Designed to provide succinct yet substantive information to policymakers, corporate leaders, educators, students, and other interested citizens, these publications cover emerging topics in energy and the environment that combine technological, economic, and policy considerations. Learn More http://acee.princeton.edu/opportunities/ Join our team The Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment fosters a vibrant atmosphere where deep collaboration, engagement, passion, and curiosity among faculty, researchers, students, and staff are highly valued. The Andlinger Center is continuously looking for talented and dedicated individuals who want to join our team and help fulfill the center’s mission: to provide clean energy for a rapidly growing world population while preserving our natural resources. Learn More research Built Environment, Transportation + Infrastructure Electricity Production, Transmission + Storage Fuels + Chemicals Environmental Sensing + Remediation Decision + Behavioral Science, Policy + Economics Environmental + Climate Science News Google, GE, ClearPath have joined new Princeton research consortium focusing on low-carbon technology Google, GE, ClearPath have joined new Princeton research consortium focusing on low-carbon technology May 31, 2022 Read Andlinger Center’s May newsletter Read Andlinger Center’s May newsletter May 17, 2022 Bioengineer and metabolic engineering expert José Avalos promoted to associate professor Bioengineer and metabolic engineering expert José Avalos promoted to associate professor May 16, 2022 Minjie Chen receives junior faculty award for outstanding teaching and research Minjie Chen receives junior faculty award for outstanding teaching and research May 16, 2022 Craig B. Arnold appointed vice dean for innovation Craig B. Arnold appointed vice dean for innovation May 11, 2022 Vertical thinking broke the bottleneck in powering high-performance computers Vertical thinking broke the bottleneck in powering high-performance computers May 2, 2022 News News Archive Address: Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment 86 Olden Street Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Andlinger Center Newsletter Signup Enter your email address to be added to our monthly newsletter. Leave this field empty if you're human: Princeton University School of Engineering & Applied Science © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University and the School of Engineering and Applied Science