Skip to main content College of Agricultural, Consumer & Environmental Sciences Search Menu Apply to ACES Make a Gift About About Overview of ACES Programs of Study Diversity Contact Us Visit Academics Academics Programs of Study Future Students Admissions Student Life Current Students Study Abroad Career Services Pre-College Programs Student Diversity and Inclusion Contact Us Staff Research Research Research Areas Research History Facilities Resources Safety Civil Rights Staff Extension Extension About Staff Programs International International About International Engagements Resources Newsletter & Publications Study Abroad Contact Us Events Staff News News ACES Social Media Events #askACES Podcast Voices of ACES Blog Subscribe ACES Seminars COVID-19 People People College Leadership Academic Department Heads Academic Units Administrative Units Giving Giving With ACES Priorities Ways to Give Give Now Alumni Association Student Committee 4-H Foundation Staff Welcome to ACES Help make the world a better place by growing and sharing affordable food to keep people and communities healthy, and preserving and restoring our natural resources. Whether you’re into math or marketing, machinery or medicine, the College of ACES gives you the power to change the world. SCHEDULE A VISIT DEGREE PROGRAMS ACES in Action ACE Consumer Economics Wine as scapegoat in trade disputes means consumers pay the price By Marianne Stein ACE Environment Research Producers and consumers must share burden of global plastic packaging waste By Marianne Stein May 23, 2022 Innovative course develops, trains leaders in the era of virtual meetings By Stephanie Henry May 20, 2022 Rethinking Agronomy Day at U of I means pop-up events and more By Lauren Quinn May 20, 2022 ACE student receives Udall award recognition By ACES staff READ MORE COVID-19 latest updates and campus resources Learn More More Than Meets The I More Than Meets The I ACES culture is more than just agriculture. It is made up of a diverse group of students, researchers and faculty working across disciplines toward a common goal of improving daily life. Overview of ACES Global Leaders The College of ACES is a global leader in the most promising areas of scholarship in the agricultural, consumer, and environmental sciences. We are known for our globally competitive students, our first-class discovery research, and the innovative knowledge we share. Meet our college leadership Education With a variety of degree options and an emphasis on hands-on learning, we give our graduates the opportunity to follow their passion and the skill set needed to serve as leaders in their field. Programs of Study Academics Research Knowledge is increased all over the world by ACES scientists, students, and partners, searching for solutions to some of the world’s most critical challenges. Our Research ACES Experts Outreach Our outreach efforts provide innovative yet practical information to help people, businesses, and communities solve problems, develop skills, and build a better future. Extension Community Programs What we do and why it matters Our Faculty Our college is a leader in discovering sustainable solutions and directing change to meet the demands of a growing global society. ACES faculty are working to advance their fields and create positive change on local and global scales. Learn more about what we do and why it matters Have Questions? Get More Information If you're interested in learning more about getting a degree in ACES, fill out our request form. Request Information College of Agricultural, Consumer & Environmental Sciences 227 Mumford Hall MC 710, 1301 W Gregory Dr. Urbana, IL 61801 email: aces@illinois.edu College Resources Contact us Future Students Current Students Alumni Visit University Resources Admissions Giving About Illinois Coronavirus (COVID-19) Cookie Settings Copyright Privacy Policy Bylaws Login Inside ACES (Fac/Staff)