Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Department of Applied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics College of Science People Research Undergraduate Graduate News Events About Home Search Menu Home › People Molly Walsh Teaching Professor Applied Statistics Ph.D., Statistics, Northwestern University M.S. Applied Probability and Statistics, Northern Illinois University B.S. Mathematics, University of Notre Dame Dr. Walsh is a statistics educator who has more than thirty years of research and teaching experience in the fields of Biostatistics and Applied Statistics. She joined the ACMS faculty in 2016, where she has taught and mentored over 500 graduate and undergraduate students each year. Prior to her position at Notre Dame, Dr. Walsh taught mathematics and statistics courses at Loyola University Chicago and Northwestern University, engaged in collaborative research with physicians at Northwestern University Medical School along with scientists at Argonne National Laboratory, and headed the Biostatistics Department at the College of American Pathologists to support physicians on numerous research studies. She has co-authored 36 peer-reviewed publications, all in the areas of Biostatistics and Epidemiology. At Notre Dame, she is the Chair of the Faculty Senate Student Affairs Committee, the Chair of the Quantitative Reasoning Subcommittee of the Core Curriculum Committee, a member of the Academic Council, a member of the University Well-Being Committee, a member of the Sara Bea Advisory Council, a member of the ACMS Committee on Teaching Assignments, and a teaching mentor for ACMS PhD students. Outside of ACMS, Dr. Walsh has taught for Notre Dame’s ESTEEM graduate program, and she was featured as an Academic Panelist at the Spring 2019 Leadership in Science and Medicine Course at Notre Dame. A proud alumna, she likes to spend her free time with her husband and two sons, who are also all Notre Dame graduates. Email: mwalsh36@nd.edu Phone: (574) 631-6477 Office: 203B Crowley Hall Home People Faculty Postdocs Visiting & Adjunct Faculty Concurrent Faculty Emeriti Faculty Graduate Students Research Undergraduate Graduate News Events About Faculty Postdocs Visiting & Adjunct Faculty Concurrent Faculty Emeriti Faculty Graduate Students Job Opportunities Resources College of Science Department of Applied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics 102G Crowley Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-8630 © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn