Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Department of Chemistry Adams Institute myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About Adams Institute Ralph N. Adams Institute News & Events Select to follow link Recent News Select to follow link News Archive Adams Lectureship at KU Adams Award at Pittcon Contact Us Select to follow link Driving Directions Academics Select to follow link Graduate Research Opportunities Research Select to follow link Faculty Research Groups Collaborators Select to follow link U.S. Collaborators International Collaborators Institute Facilities Select to follow link MRB Photos KUNF Photos COBRE CMADP People Select to follow link Faculty Select to follow link Chemistry Engineering Molecular Biosciences Pharmaceutical Chemistry Affiliated Scientists Staff Alumni & Friends Select to follow link Adams Group Alumni Ted Kuwana Contributors Giving Resources Select to follow link Ralph N. Adams Nanofabrication Facility Core Labs, Centers and Institutes Professional Organizations External Links Ralph N. Adams Nanofabrication Facility COBRE Center for Molecular Analysis of Disease Pathways KU Department of Chemistry myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Department of Chemistry Adams Institute Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Ralph N. Adams Institute of Bioanalytical Chemistry The Ralph N. Adams Institute for Bioanalytical Chemistry is an interdisciplinary consortium of researchers dedicated to achieving international leadership in bioanalytical science by fostering the highest quality research and education in the field of bioanalytical chemistry. Registration OPEN for Short Course on Neurogenerative Disorders at KU (June 9 & 16, 2022) State-of-the-Art Techniques and Enabling Technologies Institute researchers develop and use state-of-the-art sampling, separation, detection and characterization techniques to promote our understanding of fundamental life processes and to increase our knowledge of how to intervene in those processes to regulate biological function and restore health. These include: microdialysis, mass spectrometry, single molecule imaging and spectroscopy, microchip analytical devices, and electroanalytical techniques. In addition, the Institute is focused on developing the enabling technologies necessary for expanding the capabilities of high throughput screening, development of whole cell assays for drug discovery, and working on new approaches for the study and early detection of diseases including cancer, stroke, AIDS and neurodegenerative diseases. In Memory Ted Kuwana (1931 - 2022) Multidisciplinary Research Building 2030 Becker Drive, Room 220 Lawrence, KS 66047 Bus Route: 41 adamsinstitute@ku.edu 785-864-2342 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Department of Chemistry Ralph N. Adams Nanofabrication Facility COBRE Center for Molecular Analysis of Disease Pathways Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.