Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu Finding a Focus The Jackson School helped Kendall Yates discover her passion If Kendall Yates could give her freshman self one piece of advice, she says it’d be that “college is going to be what you make of it.” Beyond the Forty Acres The learning opportunities available at The University of Texas aren't limited to campus –– we're committed to working to make study abroad accessible for all students. With 400 programs in 80 countries, it's just a matter of finding the right fit. Yates, now a senior environmental sciences (EVS) major weighing job offers, wasn’t always so confident about college, or even what she was interested in. “My first year I was really just trying to figure out what was going on,” she jokes. She’d applied to the Jackson School of Geosciences’ EVS major based on her love of the environment and some good advice from her family and teachers. As she gained experience at UT Austin, her interests and her place on campus started to come into focus. “It was in my sophomore year, doing a research project, when I got introduced to the professor-student dynamic you can have here,” Yates says. “You can be friends with your professors, especially in a school like Jackson where we all know each other.” Yates and her classmates worked closely with faculty in the field, studying the dynamics of groundwater in times of flood and drought. After building strong connections with her professors and fellow students through research close to campus, during her junior year Yates went even further to explore her interests in the environment and sustainability. She spent the spring at the University of Queensland in Brisbane, Australia, taking classes and completing fieldwork that counted towards her Jackson School degree, and working as a research analyst intern for Sustainable Salons Australia. Right after returning from Australia, Yates started her current internship as a sustainability analyst for Dell’s corporate social responsibility team. “That’s been an awesome experience because I get substantial work to do,” she says. “I’m talking to Dell’s suppliers to get them to improve their sustainable practices and their reporting techniques.” Yates’ position at Dell, which she secured through Jackson School connections, has allowed her to imagine a future “dedicating my life to conservation and helping reduce consumption,” she says. She’s particularly interested in the invisible work of experts who contribute behind the scenes to make sure consumers can make more eco-friendly choices. “If you want to make a difference, it’s so easy to do here,” she says — about Austin, the Jackson School and The University of Texas at Austin. “I just got involved in one professor’s lab and started reaching out to more people. UT is a great place to be empowered.” admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022