Jump to content Apply Visit Give Navigation Admissions Search form Search Main menu Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Communication disorders and sciences Undergraduate degrees: BA or BS About the major The communication disorders and sciences program prepares you to understand, assess, and treat individuals who are experiencing challenges in speech, language, literacy, communication, cognition, and swallowing. Students learn to address these challenges across diverse ethnic, cultural, linguistic, social and economic backgrounds. We emphasize the ability to apply empirical evidence, logic, and a scientific perspective to the process of enhancing communication skills in meaningful and ecologically valid contexts. The goals of the communication disorders and sciences program are based on the belief that the ability to communicate effectively is a fundamental right of all human beings. When this right is compromised, society suffers along with the individual. A little more info The large majority of courses in the major are upper division and focus in the following areas: the anatomic-physiological bases of speech, language, and hearing the physical properties of speech (acoustics and phonetics) the role of biology, cognition, environment, and culture in language acquisition the development of speech and language speech, language, and hearing disorders across the lifespan assessment and treatment procedures for individuals with speech, language, and hearing disorders professional issues in speech-language pathology and audiology Career opportunities Students pursuing a degree in communication disorders and sciences are typically interested in pursuing graduate work in speech pathology or audiology. Some students pursue a graduate degree in areas like special education and early intervention, or work as a speech pathology assistant or in an allied field. Learn More Resources Find Your Counselor UO Facts Campus Safety Residency En Español RESOURCES Campus Safety En Español Find Your Counselor Forms Regional Accreditation Request Info Status Portal Admissions 1217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Oregon Hall P: 800-BE-A-DUCK F: 541-346-5815 P: 541-346-3201 - Text Contact Us admissions@uoregon.edu Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Visit us on Instagram Accessibility Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination. Site Navigation Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Take Action Apply Visit Give