Skip to main content Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Connect Visit Apply Search Search Menu Menu Search for: Search Clear Search Close Search Our StudentsToggle Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus LifeToggle Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Connect Visit Apply Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Academic Life Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Academic Life EDUCATION IN ACTION At Duke, you’ll be surrounded by some of the world’s brightest minds. But you won’t just be studying among them—you’ll be working with them. After all, the world’s toughest problems won’t be solved by isolated individuals but rather through interdisciplinary exploration, unconventional thinking, and serious collaboration. In and Out of the Classroom Spaces that Inspire At Duke, there’s no shortage of innovative and inspiring places for our students to explore, study, and collaborate. Discover more spaces The Link and the Edge These expansive and flexible campus facilities include collaborative study spaces, classrooms, and seminar rooms equipped with whiteboards and the latest technology to help promote interdisciplinary, team-based, and data-driven research at Duke. Students can easily reserve spaces. The Rubenstein Arts Center The Rubenstein Arts Center is a hub for artistic production at Duke—serving as the arts venue for Home to Dance, the Arts of the Moving Image, and Duke’s student-run radio station, WXDU 88.7 FM. This 70,000-square-foot building includes multipurpose studios, seminar classrooms, a makerspace, lounge, theater, and more. Innovation Co-Lab The Innovation Co-Lab, which houses cutting-edge tools such as 3-D printing, VR, and biometrical analysis, fosters creativity and helps students explore how new and emerging technologies can fundamentally reshape the research, academic, and service missions of the university. Learn More Learning Spaces Duke Link The Edge Rubenstein Arts Center Rubenstein Library Innovation Co-Lab Open Mentorship and Support Where Education Gets Personal With an 8:1 student-to-faculty ratio and countless opportunities to nurture personal connections, Duke faculty often evolve from teachers into mentors, advisors, and friends. learn more about academic support Flunching FACULTY + LUNCH = FLUNCH Every Duke student is allotted $70 per semester to invite a faculty member to dine with them at various locations around campus to help establish lasting relationships that might not have developed in the classroom. For the 2020-2021 school year, FLUNCH has been replaced with VLearn. Read More Duke Conversations A CATALYST FOR MEANINGFUL DIALOGUE This student-led organization connects faculty and students through a series of informal dinners hosted by faculty members in their homes to create a dynamic community characterized by spirited discussion. Read More Collaboration story “ALWAYS SAY YES” How a professor’s advice changed the trajectory of one student’s college experience. Read More Academic Resources THE SUPPORT YOU NEED TO THRIVE Duke’s Academic Resource Center (ARC) offers academic support and guidance for every undergraduate. Programs and services include learning consultations, tutoring and study groups, and LD/ADHD support. Read More Learn More Academic Support Duke Conversations Open Our Students 01 Campus Life 02 Financial Support 03 Join Our Mailing List Sign Up Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support © DUKE.EDU 2022 Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Disable Animations