Skip to main content Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Connect Visit Apply Search Search Menu Menu Search for: Search Clear Search Close Search Our StudentsToggle Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus LifeToggle Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Connect Visit Apply Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Durham, Our Hometown Visiting Durham GET TO KNOW THE BULL CITY Duke and its hometown of Durham, North Carolina, are closely connected. Here’s how to see some of Durham during a short visit to campus. COMMUNITY 150 years of rich history and innovation EAT #1 Tastiest Town of the South & Foodiest Town LIVE #5 Best place for new college grads Overnight Stay TASTE OF THE TOWN If you’re staying overnight in town, you’ll have time to sample one of Durham’s acclaimed restaurants and visit some of our trendy neighborhoods. Dame's Chicken & Waffles Serving breakfast, lunch, and dinner, Dame’s pairings are world-class, comfort food combinations meant to fulfill your appetite’s and heart’s desires. Dame’s culinary creations are truly palate-pleasing pairings that offer something special for all comers. Pompieri Pizza Visit this casual Neapolitan pizza restaurant where everything is handmade, sourced locally. and wood-fired. Whether your tastes are adventurous or not, Pompieri Pizza has a pizza for you. Elmo's Diner Elmo’s Diner has been a local Durham favorite for more than twenty years. Located on Ninth Street, Elmo's serves fresh, delicious food in a family diner atmosphere. Guglhupf Featured in Cooking Light and on the Food Network, this innovative restaurant & cafe features an upscale menu exploring German cuisine with an inventive approach using local, seasonal ingredients. Parker and Otis Parker and Otis is a restaurant and gift shop located in historic downtown Durham, NC. Opened seven days a week, serving breakfast and lunch with an amazing array of gifts, gourmet foods, cheese, wine and candy. Beyú Caffè Beyú Caffè (pronounced be-you) was founded in 2009 by Dorian Bolden to be the ultimate community gathering place. durham visitors bureau Arrow Right Created with Sketch. 300 Great Things about Durham Arrow Right Created with Sketch. Open Weekend Trip CHOOSE YOUR OWN ADVENTURE A weekend in Durham gives you the chance to pick-and-choose the local attractions that most interest you. Whether you’re a foodie, a gamer, a sports fan, or an artist, there’s something in Durham just for you. Durham Visitors Bureau Arrow Right Created with Sketch. Ninth Street Eats, errands, and eclectic gifts – everything you need in a unique, walkable district with a rich history and a friendly neighborhood feel. This colorful West Durham street has roots that go all the way back to Durham’s early days of textiles and tobacco. Today, its modern amenities are matched with a strong tradition of independent business to create a vibrant culture. Duke Forest The Duke Forest comprises 7,060 acres of land in Durham, Orange and Alamance counties and has been managed for research and teaching purposes since 1931. Its mission is to facilitate research that addresses questions concerning forested and aquatic ecosystems and to help students become informed citizens and effective stewards of our natural resources. In addition to supporting education at Duke and other local universities, the Forest participates in outreach through tours and other events. Durham Farmers' Market The Durham Farmers’ Market is a community of farmers, growers and crafters. They are strongly committed to local products: every item at the market was produced by the people selling it, and it all comes from no more than 70 miles away. Durham Performing Arts Center Since its opening in 2008, DPAC (Durham Performing Arts Center) has become the center for live entertainment in North Carolina. Recognized for its contemporary design, DPAC features 2,700 seats, intimate sightlines, and state-of-the-art sound and video. Ranked annually among the top-ten theaters in America by three leading national magazines that cover live entertainment events and venues, DPAC attracts over 500,000 guests per year to its 200+ events. Durham Bulls The Durham Bulls are a professional minor league baseball team who plays at Durham Bulls Athletic Park in downtown Durham. The Bulls are the Triple-A affiliate of the Tampa Bay Rays. Our Students 01 Campus Life 02 Financial Support 03 Join Our Mailing List Sign Up Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support © DUKE.EDU 2022 Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Disable Animations