Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Physical & Life Sciences Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually Professor Erich Osterberg: "Given the urgency to understand and mitigate climate change, training the next generation of polar scientists is as important to us as our research." Forget your image of a classroom. Whether you're drilling ice cores at Occom Pond, using Shattuck Observatory to explore galaxy formation, or scuba diving off the coast of Little Cayman Island, experiential learning will define your studies. Under the mentorship of faculty on the cutting edge of their fields, you'll participate in innovative research that pushes the boundaries of established knowledge. Soon, you'll see every corner of the campus, and the world, as your laboratory. Our Faculty of Physical & Life Sciences Say: See Another Quote Professor Devin Walker “When I was first studying science, I found it really exciting that you could predict certain events. Think of the universe as speaking a language, or making music. There’s always the question of what kind of song is being played. That song is the motion of galaxies, and physicists try to figure out what that song is.” Learn more about Devin Walker, Assistant Professor of Physics and Astronomy Miles Blencowe "I have always found teaching to be inseparable from the research; discussing concepts in class or one-on-one during office hours often leads to new ideas for research projects. The learning goes both ways." Learn more about Miles Blencowe, the Eleanor and A. Kelvin Smith Distinguished Professor in Physics Carl Renshaw "I am constantly incorporating new tools and technology we are developing to monitor river processes into my courses. Advances in technology will enable students to gain more direct insight into hydrologic processes, allowing them to make their own discoveries." Learn more about Carl Renshaw, Professor of Earth Sciences, Adjunct Professor, Thayer School of Engineering, and the Evans Family Distinguished Professor Cool Classes Dartmouth creates a rich academic culture imbued with critical thinking and creativity, one that promotes experimentation, reflection, learning, and leadership. But don't take our word for it. We asked our students to tell us about some of their favorite physical and life sciences courses. Academics at DartmouthDartmouth Science NewsReseach at Dartmouth Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. EARS 1: How the Earth Works A Department of Earth Science Course I originally took this class for my science/lab distributions, but it turned out to be one of my favorites! It was fascinating to learn how the Earth works and about our physical environment. I especially loved labs: we went on local field trips to rock formations or important geological sites, like Quechee Gorge. The professors were engaging and made everything accessible and interesting. I love that I can walk around campus and know how different environmental landmarks happened. ASTR 1: Exploration of the Solar System A Department of Astronomy Course When I think of lab, I don’t normally think of telescopes, but Exploration of the Solar System is an awesome class that allows students to continue their education outside of the classroom by utilizing the observatory on campus! We talked about the formation and evolution of the solar system, different planetary bodies, and recent travels that have taken place through space. And with no light pollution, what better place to look at the stars than in Hanover? Physics 15: Introductory Physics Honors A Department of Physics Course This class was an eye-opening physics experience filled with incredible demonstrations, intriguing apparatuses, mind-blowing lectures, and an awesome professor to tie it all together. One week we were presented with a homemade muon detector, which was visible proof of an example we were evaluating in class. Another week, we were shown a device (which our professor asserted came from Russia, but nobody knows how it got here) used to make different types of waves. COSC 1: Intro to Programming and Computation A Department of Computer-Science Course Intro CS - no programming experience required! But what I liked most about this class was that most of the coding assignments asked students to create tangible products that were applicable to our lives. We created a ping-pong game, and a program that found the best path between different places on campus. So efficient for winter in Hanover…and a great way to learn the basics of an important skill set. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Physical & Life Sciences Alumni Nobel laureates, government leaders, judges, scientists, writers, scholars, journalists, entertainers-Dartmouth alumni have distinguished themselves in all fields. Here are some notable alumni in the arts and performing arts making a difference in the world. Learn More About Our Alumni Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Kathy Fallon Lambert ’90 Major: Sociology, environmental studies certificate Studying sociology and environmental studies at Dartmouth launched Kathy Fallon Lambert’s lifelong passion for understanding how people shape the natural world. Her work uniting science and environmental policy has earned her numerous national awards and fellowships. After running the Hubbard Brook Research Foundation and managing sustainability at Dartmouth, Kathy created and now directs the Science Policy Exchange at Harvard. Sourav Sinha ’12 Major: molecular biology and biochemistry A degree in molecular biology and biochemistry from Dartmouth led Sourav Sinha ’12 to co-found Oncolinx, a company working on developing targeted cancer treatments that will be more effective – and cause less side effects – than traditional therapies. The startup, which is partnering with a number of academic groups and pharmaceutical companies, is currently preparing to enter treatments into clinical trials. Sourav also leads Strategy and Special Projects at Celularity—which launched with more than $250M in financing develop cutting-edge stem cell therapies and regenerative medicines. Allison Lange ’01 Major: Biology Most scientists don’t drive forklifts – but for Allison Lange, it’s just another day at work. With a biology degree from Dartmouth, a Ph.D. in biochemistry from Emory, and a postdoc under her belt, Allison decided to leave her lab coat behind and enter the world of brewery science. She’s now head brewer at Old Ox Brewery in Virginia, where she manages everything from recipe development to yeast management. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Study the Physical & Life Sciences Off Campus Select a Map Click to Open Study the Physical & Life Sciences Off Campus Basecamp to the World At Dartmouth, we have taken the traditional study abroad model, erased its boundaries, and expanded its parameters. Study abroad here is not an isolated semester in another country. Arranged through Dartmouth's Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education, these powerful learning experiences are enhanced through faculty mentorship. The curriculum and structure of the school year allow students to follow their research around the world. Dartmouth's Global Impact Click to stop viewing map. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog Diary of a Dartmouth Pre-Med When I worked in Professor Tse’s Neuroscience lab through the Women in Science Project. I learned how to scan subjects in the fMRI and got to be scanned myself for one of the lab projects. (This is a picture of my brain!) Funny story... Jump To: Major Click to Open Biological Sciences Chemistry Climate Science Computer Science Earth Science Environmental Studies Mathematics Physics and Astronomy Back to top chevrons up Biological Sciences Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Virtual Reality ‘Sees’ Through the Eyes of a Tiny Primate Biology helps us understand the big picture. The study of biology connects us to the world we are living in and reminds us of our interconnectedness with all other life forms. Students studying Biological Sciences at Dartmouth find diverse disciplines, prestigious faculty with a breadth of experience, and next-generation resources. Undergraduates, graduate students, and faculty collaborate on laboratory research, fieldwork, and publications with real-world applications. Faculty are committed to providing students with a broad exposure to biological processes and systems, as well as a deep understanding of biology at environmental, organismal, cellular, and molecular levels. Majors develop an in-depth understanding within an area of concentration, non-majors explore research methods and approaches in the life sciences, and many students enjoy opportunities to pursue research in faculty laboratories. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Chemistry Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Dartmouth Chemist Studies Autophagy, or Cannibalism in Cells Chemistry is the study of energy and matter and the interaction between them. It is sometimes called the "central science" because it connects other sciences—such as biology, physics, geology and environmental science—to each other. Dartmouth’s Chemistry Department combines the personalized instruction and mentoring of a small college with the expertise of a research university. Students majoring in chemistry can choose from five different course options, including biophysical or biological chemistry and the more and less structured plan A and B majors, while modified majors can also be crafted. The chemistry minor can be satisfied with only two courses beyond the standard premed requirements. Many undergraduate research opportunities are available to undergraduate students, and chemistry students are frequent winners of awards and honors for their research and scholarship. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Climate Science Minor Featured Program News Learning Climate Science in Greenland … Virtually Dartmouth's new Climate Science minor bridges the gap between four departments of study: Biology, Earth Sciences, Environmental Studies, and Geography. The Climate Science minor seeks to explore questions concerning the future of our world's climate and the impact of climate change on international society. This minor, through rigorous training in climate science, will prepare students for an interdisciplinary career or graduate program that requires substantive knowledge of the climate system. At Dartmouth, courses within the Climate Science minor will be taught by faculty members from various departments to ensure that students have a comprehensive understanding of the subject. Classes examining the effects of climate change will analyze the future of water resources, floods, climate extremes, and agricultural production. This minor will require students to take introductory, breadth, quantitative, and upper-division culminating courses. By taking a wide array of courses, students will have both breadth and depth of knowledge in climate science upon their graduation from Dartmouth College. Related LinksClick to Open Biology Earth Sciences Environmental Studies Geography Computer Science Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Dartmouth Computer Scientist Wins Sloan Foundation Fellowship Computer science empowers students to recognize that computational techniques apply to diverse problems and also to determine which techniques apply in a given situation. It teaches students to develop models, abstractions, and representations of information, and to design and implement efficient and elegant solutions to computational problems. It instills the fundamentals of computer architectures, programming languages, and operating systems, thereby enabling students to stay abreast of changes in approaches and technology. The undergraduate curriculum in Computer Science at Dartmouth is designed to equip students with the tools necessary not only to fully comprehend modern computational technologies (software and hardware), but also—and more importantly—to innovate in this exciting space, enabling students to develop new technologies that improve the world around them. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Earth Science Bachelor of Arts Earth Science involves the study of physical, chemical, and biological processes of the earth over time. Students who study Earth Science find opportunities in the environmental, engineering, mining, teaching, exploration and geophysics fields, and in hydrology, space science and oceanography. The Department of Earth Sciences (EARS) at Dartmouth is devoted to the study of the natural world in which we live. Working with a tightknit faculty, students take courses and pursue research under the broad category of 'environmental geosciences'. Research in EARS combines field studies with laboratory-based and theoretical studies of fundamental processes affecting the Earth's surface through geologic time. Undergraduate students play a visible and important role in the department, both in departmental research and life. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Environmental Studies Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News ‘COVER Stories’: Building Community by Repairing Homes The field of Environmental Studies views the earth, and humanity’s place in it, as a set of complex, interacting socio-ecological systems. Gaining an understanding of this complexity involves drawing on concepts and methods from the natural sciences, social sciences, and humanities as complementary lenses through which to view these systems. Environmental Studies also seeks to overcome the limitations of any one of these perspectives by applying innovative approaches that integrate traditional disciplines in new and productive ways. The faculty and curriculum of the Department of Environmental Studies (ENVS) at Dartmouth motivate and prepare students to rise to the challenges and opportunities associated with human-environment interactions. Environmental degradation is an escalating problem from local to global scales. Training students to understand and address these environmental problems is the core mission of ENVS, and it is the basis of the belief that environmental studies is an essential component of a modern liberal arts education. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Mathematics Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News New Faculty to Apply Mathematical Thinking to Major Issues Mathematics is an amazing and beautiful intellectual creation, one of the human race's deepest endeavors. The world around us and the future world we are creating is woven through with mathematics—from the symmetry groups of Navajo weavings to the airflow around a flapping bird's wing and to the security of global computer networks. Mathematics is everywhere. The Mathematics Department at Dartmouth is a place to learn about and investigate unsolved problems and mind-bending concepts. The major in mathematics is intended both for students who plan careers in mathematics and related fields and also for those who simply find mathematics interesting. The content of the major is flexible, and courses may be selected to reflect student interests. Students who major in mathematics have the opportunity to work in close collaboration with faculty through small seminars and independent research projects. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Physics and Astronomy Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Dartmouth Physics Gets a ‘Ride’ on NASA Rocket The study of physics gives students the chance to probe the workings of the universe, from the smallest elementary particles to the largest cosmological scales. Astronomy is not a mere subfield of physics, but a truly interdisciplinary quest to understand the universe. The Department of Physics and Astronomy at Dartmouth is a community of over 100 undergraduate and graduate students, postdocs, and faculty conducting world-leading research in a wide range of fields. The physics major quickly takes students from the basic laws of mechanics to advanced and special topics in physics during sophomore or junior year. Problems in modern astronomy require a diversified background in the sciences, thus astronomy courses include high energy astrophysics, general relativity and gravitation, and more. Graduate level courses are likewise open to qualified undergraduates. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback