Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Transfer Advisors Transfer students are essential to NC State’s success. That’s why we work closely with external transfer advisors to make getting here as easy as possible. A Valued Partnership We recognize transfer advisors are instrumental in supporting students as they prepare to transition from community college or another institution. At NC State, we value this commitment to your students’ success and welcome the opportunity to work alongside you. Our goal is to ensure that you have the resources you need to guide your students through this process. Are you a prospective transfer student? Learn more about the transfer admissions process here. The below information is for external transfer advisors. Getting started Join Our Email List We want to make sure you stay up-to-date with NC State and the admissions process. Sign up to receive our update emails. Get connected Visit Requests Learn more about in-person and virtual opportunities for transfer advisors and prospective students. See my options Transfer Class Stats Learn more about application numbers and GPA averages for the fall 2021 class. See the facts Announcements and Events Virtual Advisor Events Register to attend one of our virtual advisor events to learn more about NC State and the transfer admissions process. Pick a session There are a variety of ways to stay up-to-date with the admissions office and NC State’s application process. Check back monthly to see new announcements and events for transfer advisors. Announcements NC State’s Goodnight Scholars Program is expanding to include a cohort of 50 transfer students from NC Community Colleges. Learn more here. GlaxoSmithKline Foundation has partnered with NC State’s Community College Collaboration (C3) to make a four-year degree more accessible and affordable for transfer students with a $600,000 grant. Learn more here. Admissions updates What does it mean to be on the waitlist as a transfer applicant? Admission to NC State is highly selective. Students placed on the waitlist are those we believe could be successful at NC State if space becomes available. Learn more about being on the waitlist here. Information for Transfer Applicants: Request for Current Grades A portion of transfer applicants are asked to submit their current grades before receiving a final decision. Students should submit their current grades from the spring 2022 term within two weeks of being requested to submit current grades. North Carolina Community College Students We’ve provided Baccalaureate Degree Plans for students at NC Community Colleges to help identify college courses that provide pathways leading to associate degree completion, admission into a major and baccalaureate completion. Start planning Additional Resources Use the below resources to assist in guiding your students through the admissions process at NC State. Transfer Application Review Learn what we take into consideration during application review for transfer students. Recommendations for Competitive Applicants There are specific courses we recommend transfer students take prior to applying to NC State. Credit Opportunities Use our transfer credit database to see how transfer students may be awarded for courses completed at other institutions. C3 Program Learn about a dual-admission program between NC State and a select group of our NC Community College partners. Goodnight Scholars Learn more about a scholarship opportunity for NC Community College students who are pursuing a STEM or STEM education-based major. Military Resources Students who are active-duty or veteran military status must apply as transfer students. View resources for military students here. NC State Degree Requirements View course requirements for NC State majors. Contact Our Office View how to contact our office and answers to frequently asked questions. Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.