Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Pause Student life Your Husky Experience doesn’t end when you leave the classroom — your time outside of class is just as vital. MAKER'S FAIR Browse beautiful creations made by members of the UW community or show off your own work. Check it out THE IMA Indoor swimming, running, squash, climbing, weightlifting, cardio, archery, cycling, badminton, volleyball and more: The Intramural Activities Building is your ultimate playground! Check it out DAWG DAZE The UW's oldest tradition, when we welcome students to campus with 250+ events from more than 60 UW departments and student organizations. Check it out ESPORTS The HUB Esports Arena & Gaming Lounge features high-end gaming computers for casual and competitive gaming and virtual reality. Check it out STUDENT CLUBS BTS joined student K-pop dance group THE KOMPANY to perform on Red Square. You never know what fun you'll find in a student club! Check it out GET OUTSIDE Students have access to kayaking, golf, softball and gear for outdoor expeditions. Check it out STUDENT CULTURAL GROUPS No matter who you are or where you’re from, you can find your family away from home. Check it out HOUSING With residence halls and apartments designed to connect you to community and support your success, we'll help you find your Husky home. Check it out W DAY Celebrate the UW's birthday with music, games, giveaways and other treats on Red Square! Check it out GREEK LIFE About 4,400 UW students are part of our 65 fraternities and sororities. Check it out CLASS DAY REGATTA Students line “The Cut” to take part in one of our oldest traditions. Check it out STUDENT CLUBS With this many clubs, you can find your community no matter what you like to do. Check it out Housing & dining You don’t have to live on campus, but most freshmen do. We have rooms and spaces for every price point and lifestyle; take a virtual tour of your options at admit.uw.edu/visit. Housing and food services Student resources The UW offers students a multitude of services to help them thrive. Whether you’re looking for extra tutoring, counseling support, career advice or help finding your community, we have you covered. Student resources Intramural activities The Intramural Sports program has more than 30 leagues, tournaments and events, in Open, Co-Recreational, Women’s and Men’s divisions. With offerings from bowling to badminton, triathlons to tennis and dodgeball to volleyball, plus a range of levels from newbie to expert, everyone can find a way to get their game on. Intramurals Diversity at the UW From President Ana Mari Cauce’s Race & Equity Initiative to the welcoming environment of the Q Center and the many resources of the Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center, the UW is devoted to advancing a culture of diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging for the whole UW community. uw.edu/diversity Husky health and well-being Nothing is more important than the security, health and well-being of our students. Explore campus safety, mental health, medical and recreation resources. wellbeing.uw.edu Student cultural groups We understand the importance of finding your community while attending college. The UW is home to organizations that celebrate the diversity of our student body, including the Black Student Union, wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House, the Q Center, the Latinx Student Union and CIRCLE, (Center for International Relations & Cultural Leadership Exchange) — and many more. Student organizations Husky Union Building The “hub” of student life since 1949, the Husky Union Building is a popular gathering spot with a food court, event spaces, a gaming lounge and a bowling alley. THE HUB SafeCampus Available by phone 24/7, SafeCampus helps the UW community prevent violence and respond to concerns. When you call, a trained, empathetic professional will listen and offer support and guidance. safecampus University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA