Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Apply Ready to think and do with us? Begin your journey to NC State. See dates and deadlines Run With the Wolfpack Getting started on your application to NC State is easy, but how you apply depends on who you are — and where you’re coming from. Once submitting your application, you’ll receive login credentials to wolfPAW, our applicant portal, after two weeks. That’s where you’ll track your application status, manage documents and get your final admissions decision. Dive In Common App Coalition App NC State Transfer Application wolfPAW Portal Find Your Starting Point First-Year Students If you’re graduating from high school or have never enrolled in college, you’re considered a first-year applicant. Take the first step Transfer Students If you’ve already graduated from high school and begun your college education at another institution, you’ll apply as a transfer applicant. Make the switch International Students We proudly welcome scholars from around the world. If you’re not a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, you’ll apply as an international applicant. Get started Early College High school students graduating with an associate degree from a North Carolina early college (known as Cooperative Innovative High Schools) can apply as a first-year or transfer applicant. Know your options More Pathways Everyone’s pathway to the Pack looks a little different — and not every potential student falls neatly into the categories above. Explore other possible routes to NC State, and learn more about their application processes and admissions requirements below. Delve Deeper Agricultural Institute Embarking on a career in agriculture? Our two-year Agricultural Institute allows you to earn an Associate of Applied Science degree in one of six academic areas. Community College Collaboration (C3) Our dual-admission program lets you begin your studies with one of our community college partners, then finish your degree here. Non-Degree Studies You don’t have to get a degree to get an NC State education. Learn about our part-time, non-degree offerings. Readmission If you’ve previously attended NC State, find out if you’re eligible to apply for readmission and pick up where you left off. Apply on Time Your application must be complete before we can process it, so make sure that you apply by the deadline. Mark your calendar Need Help With Your Application? If you’re working to make your way to NC State, we want to do everything we can to support you. Dig into our resources — and uncover tips and tricks from start to finish. Selecting Your Major Your choice of major on your application is a factor in our admission review process. Explore more than 100 options to find your fit. Credit Opportunities Already completed some college courses? See if the courses you’ve taken will transfer to NC State. Frequently Asked Questions Get answers to common questions that may arise as you move through the application process. wolfPAW Portal Once you’ve applied, your wolfPAW account will be your one stop for all information regarding your application. Title IX Statement and Information NC State strives to ensure that applicants, students, faculty, staff and visitors are safe and not subject to further discrimination, harassment or retaliation regarding protected statutes and protected activities. Learn more here. Should you experience or witness discrimination, harassment or retaliation, you have the option to file a report with NC State University’s Equal Opportunity and Equity unit and/or NC State Police. More To Explore Connect Have any questions about admissions? Learn how you can get in touch with our office. Let’s chat Afford An NC State degree pays off. See why we’re a great value — and discover financial aid and scholarship opportunities. Find out more Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.