Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home First-Year What We're Looking For First-Year Toggle navigation First-Year Menu Admissions How to Apply Deadlines & Fees What We're Looking For Decisions Cost & Aid Scholarships Academics Accelerated Credit Gap Year Info for Parents Info for Counselors SSAR What We're Looking For First-Year admission is a holistic and selective process, and no single criterion guarantees admission. Rather, we consider a range of factors. Additional consideration will also be given to applicants applying to the CARE Summer Bridge Program, as well as exceptionally talented visual and performing artists and athletes. Fall 2022 Admitted Student Profile 4.3-4.6 Academic Core GPA * 1300-1430 SAT * 29-32 ACT * Summer 2022 Admitted Student Profile 4.0-4.4 Academic Core GPA * 1210-1310 SAT * 25-29 ACT * * Represents the middle 50% of students admitted ACT/SAT Information Requiring an ACT or SAT test score for admissions consideration is not an institutional choice. FSU, along with Florida's 11 other public universities, is subject to Florida Board of Governors admissions regulation 6.002 which requires first-year students seeking admission to submit an ACT or SAT test score. When evaluating students for admission, we use the highest earned ACT and SAT sub scores to calculate the ACT composite and/or SAT total (a process known as "super scoring"). At least one test score must be submitted before the application deadline, but additional tests may be considered if provided by these dates: Decision Cohort Application & Materials Deadline Last Scores Considered Early Action *Florida Students Only October 15, 2022 November SAT (if scores are provided before December 1, 2022) Regular Decision December 1, 2022 December ACT and SAT (if scores are provided before January 1, 2023) Rolling Decision March 1, 2023 Released on a rolling basis in early April High School Courses The Florida Board of Governors sets the minimum eligibility requirements in the State University System (SUS). Satisfying these minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to Florida State University. Admission is selective, and admitted students typically exceed the minimum requirements. High School Students Earning an AA Degree Applicants who graduate from high school and receive an AA degree at the same time should apply as first-year students, not as transfer students. Applicants should meet the first-year admission requirements and the requirements for their desired major. The Academic Program Guide provides detailed major descriptions and requirements, and a semester-by-semester guide of what courses to take starting as a first-year student until graduation. Students who earned an AA degree while in high school should submit a final official transcript from their AA degree-granting institution showing that the AA degree was earned before attending orientation. The final official transcript must show that the AA degree was earned and the date the degree was earned. Staff in the Graduation Planning and Strategies (GPS) Office are always excited to connect with high school AA students to answer any questions and brainstorm on how to make the most of their time at FSU. Students can learn more about how having the high school AA degree provides unique opportunities available to them here. Essay & Resume The essay and resume provide another opportunity to learn more about you. The essay should be no longer than 650 words, and may be uploaded after the application has been submitted. Please choose a topic from the list below: Application Essay Prompts Some students have a background, identity, interest, or talent that is so meaningful they believe their application would be incomplete without it. If this sounds like you, then please share your story. The lessons we take from obstacles we encounter can be fundamental to later success. Recount a time when you faced a challenge, setback, or failure. How did it affect you, and what did you learn from the experience? Reflect on a time when you questioned or challenged a belief or idea. What prompted your thinking? What was the outcome? Reflect on something that someone has done for you that has made you happy or thankful in a surprising way. How has this gratitude affected or motivated you? Discuss an accomplishment, event, or realization that sparked a period of personal growth and a new understanding of yourself or others. Describe a topic, idea, or concept you find so engaging that it makes you lose all track of time. Why does it captivate you? What or who do you turn to when you want to learn more? Share an essay on any topic of your choice. It can be one you've already written, one that responds to a different prompt, or one of your own design. The resume should be no longer than two pages, and may be uploaded after the application has been submitted. It should include a list of activities such as (but not limited to) service work, employment, family contributions such as caring for siblings or sick relatives, and extracurricular and summer activities. Please allow 3-4 business days for us to pull your essay and resume/activities if you submitted your application through the Common App. Home Education and GED Information Florida State University considers applications from students who participated in a Home-Education program, or who have earned a GED. Home-Education applicants must complete the SSAR, while students earning a GED must submit official GED results along with an official, partial high school transcript. In addition, all applicants must submit at least one ACT and/or SAT test score by the application deadline to be considered for admission. First-Year admission is a holistic and selective process, and no single criterion guarantees admission to our university. Quick Links Seminole Tribe Land Acknowledgement College & Career Planning Tool Career Center Academic Program Guide FSU Highlights Apply Online Visit Us Publications Check Your Application Status Application Changes Form Residency Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Aspire TCC2FSU Program FSU-Panama City Campus The Graduate School Student Veterans Center Office of Accessibility Services Professional Licensure Transfer Student Services Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University.