Jump to content Apply Visit Give Navigation Admissions Search form Search Main menu Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Psychology Undergraduate degrees: BA or BS Undergraduate minor About the major From cognitive and developmental psychology to practices in clinical psychology and psychopathology, the UO’s Department of Psychology immerses you in the study of the human mind and behavior. All students collaborate on research as part of their academic sequence and many gain additional research experience in department labs. You will learn strong critical thinking skills and how to evaluate and convey evidence. Develop your skills in real-world settings with student-run peer programs, internships at local clinics, shelters, hospitals, and justice centers. We are a community of scientists including faculty and postdoctoral scholars engaged in cutting-edge research. The psychology major will expose you to basic concepts, theories, findings, and ethical issues in multiple areas: social, personality and psychopathology, developmental, cognitive and experimental, and biological and physiological psychology. A little more info Undergraduates have opportunities to engage in hands-on research and develop career-related skills at over 25 labs including the UO’s Child and Family Center, the Center for Translational Neuroscience, the Oregon Social Learning Center, and local women’s shelters. Community-wide practicum opportunities are available for students interested in working with high schools, social justice organizations, and even the Lane County juvenile justice system. The Lewis Integrative Science Building houses half of the department’s faculty, labs, and graduate students as well as cutting-edge technologies, such as a new MRI machine. The department’s honors club, Psi Chi, promotes and encourages scholastic achievement in psychology. Career opportunities An undergraduate degree in psychology provides the background for a broad range of careers including social services, education, law, and graduate programs in psychology. Some students major in psychology to prepare for graduate training and careers in related fields such as personal relations, vocational and personal counseling, medicine and dentistry, social and case work, marketing, administration, legal work, and counseling in public schools. Others prepare for careers as academic psychologists (teaching and research), clinical psychologists (mental health centers, institutions, and private practice), industrial and organizational psychologists, and government psychologists (testing, research, and administration). Learn More Resources Find Your Counselor UO Facts Campus Safety Residency En Español RESOURCES Campus Safety En Español Find Your Counselor Forms Regional Accreditation Request Info Status Portal Admissions 1217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Oregon Hall P: 800-BE-A-DUCK F: 541-346-5815 P: 541-346-3201 - Text Contact Us admissions@uoregon.edu Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Visit us on Instagram Accessibility Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination. Site Navigation Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Take Action Apply Visit Give