Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Tulane to Go Test Optional for Another Year (2022-23) custom css-js - global Tulane to Go Test Optional for Another Year (2022-23) Submitting test scores for the SAT or ACT will be an optional — not required — part of the admission process for students applying this fall for a spot in Tulane University's 2023 entering class. With the great uncertainty the world is still facing amid Coronavirus (COVID-19), we understand that high school juniors are feeling additional stress around the college admission process, particularly as it pertains to standardized testing. To respond to the needs of our prospective students in a fair and equitable manner, Tulane University has decided to go test optional again for students applying in the Fall of 2022 for the Fall 2023 entering class (Class of 2027). Whether or not an applicant should submit standardized test scores with their application is a decision that should be entirely left up to the applicant. If the applicant feels that their SAT or ACT score accurately reflects their academic aptitude, we welcome them to submit their scores. If an applicant feels that their score does not reflect their academic aptitude, there will be no penalty for this. Keep in mind that, even as we evaluate your application to determine your readiness for Tulane academics, we put equal weight on the components of your application that speak to your interest, passions, and engagements that may or may not be academically-related. For more questions related to our temporary test optional policy, read our frequently asked questions below or reach out to me at undergraduate.admission@tulane.edu. Frequently Asked Questions 1. Why is Tulane going test optional another year? Tulane responded to the extraordinary circumstances we found ourselves in with Coronavirus (COVID-19). We understood the stress students were feeling due to fewer test options and multiple test cancellations. To accommodate the needs of students applying to Tulane in the Fall 2022 for the Fall 2023 entering class, we feel this measure is appropriate. 2. Is this policy permanent? The policy will only be in effect for students applying in the Fall of 2022 for the entering Fall 2023 class (Class of 2027). 3. How will merit aid be impacted? All applicants will be considered for merit-based financial aid, regardless of whether or not test scores are submitted with the application. 4. How do I submit a test optional application? If you indicate you’re submitting a test optional application, but later decide to submit test scores, you may reach out to the Office of Undergraduate Admission to request to have your application reviewed with test scores. 5. If I do submit a standardized test, how will the scores be evaluated and impact my admission decision? The Office of Undergraduate Admission takes a holistic approach to reviewing applications, meaning several components of an application are evaluated to determine academic fit for Tulane. These components includes grade point average (GPA), academic rigor, essays, letters of recommendations, who you are in and out of the classrooms (i.e. club involvement, employment, etc.), and standardized test scores. 6. I’m an international student. Am I still required to send in TOEFL or IELTS scores? English language proficiency is required for admission to Tulane. TOEFL, IELTS or Duolingo English Test scores are required if you are not a native speaker of English. At home administrations of these tests will be accepted. Successful applicants typically score 95+, 6.5+ or 115+ on TOEFL, IELTS or the Duolingo English Test respectively. For non-native English speakers who have taken the SAT or ACT, a 600+ on the SAT reading/writing or 27+ on the ACT English waives your requirement for a English proficiency score. Did You Know? Bryan Batt of Mad Men, and star of 9 Broadway shows, is a New Orleans native and 1985 Tulane Grad. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University