Skip to main content Utility Navigation Visit Apply Ask COVID-19 Updates Main navigation Learning at Penn Living at Penn Admissions and Financial Aid Search Close Menu Close Search keywords Search Utility Navigation Visit Apply Ask COVID-19 Updates Secondary Navigation Desktop Student Stories Explore Penn Penn Admissions Blog For Parents & Families For Counselors Contact Admissions Main navigation Learning at Penn Major & Minors Specialized Degree Programs Inter-School Minors Submatriculation Undergraduate Schools College of Arts and Sciences Penn Engineering School of Nursing The Wharton School Our Faculty Penn Integrates Knowledge Civic Engagement Civic House Fox Leadership Program Netter Center for Community Partnerships Research and Learning Opportunities Undergraduate Research Scholars After Penn Living at Penn Art & Culture Athletics & Recreation Campus & Philadelphia Diverse Community Housing & Dining Penn Around the World Student Activities Student Support & Services Admissions and Financial Aid Visit Penn Tours and Information Sessions Workshops, Panels, & Events Student Connections Philadelphia Apply For Admission First-Year Admission Student Athletes International Applicants Undocumented Students Homeschool Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Admission International Applicants Student Athletes Costs & Financial Aid What Penn Looks For Comprehensive Review High School Preparation Testing Extracurricular Activities Letters of Recommendation Essays Interviews Supplementary Materials Admitted Student Profile Secondary Navigation Student Stories Explore Penn Penn Admissions Blog For Parents & Families For Counselors Contact Admissions Civic Engagement Navigate Learning at Penn Major & Minors Specialized Degree Programs Inter-School Minors Submatriculation Undergraduate Schools College of Arts and Sciences Penn Engineering School of Nursing The Wharton School Our Faculty Penn Integrates Knowledge Civic Engagement Civic House Fox Leadership Program Netter Center for Community Partnerships Research and Learning Opportunities Undergraduate Research Scholars After Penn Civic engagement is more than philanthropy - it’s central to the intellectual experience at Penn. Whether you choose to design a business model for a nonprofit organization, help improve education at local schools, or lead public health initiatives, you can apply what you learn in the classroom in service of positive change. The impact of Penn’s civic outreach begins in our immediate neighborhoods and extends around the world, wherever our programs will help the most. First, Be a Good Neighbor Every day, we have experiences that show us why Philadelphia is called “the City of Brotherly Love,” and we aspire to do our part to be a good neighbor with appreciation and respect for our hometown. Our landmark programs and initiatives channel our best ideas and human energy into proactive connections with local communities. Our students have helped improve education at local schools, fostered public health, stimulated economic development, and turned parking lots into beautiful green spaces. The generous spirit of our students guides us and helps the entire Penn community grow while working and learning in service to society. Dynamic Community Partnerships Stavros Niarchos Foundation (SNF) Paideia Program The SNF Paideia Program serves as a hub for civic dialogue at Penn that encourages the free exchange of ideas, civil and robust discussion of divergent views, and the integration of students’ academic, personal, and professional interests. Learn More Penn Green Campus Partnership Penn President Amy Gutmann was the first Ivy League President to sign the American College and University Presidents' Climate Commitment. Find out how we’re leading the way in sustainability efforts. Learn More Public Safety Penn Public Safety keeps our community safe while offering safety programs such as RAD, Penn Guardian, bicycle safety and emergency preparedness. Learn More University City District More than just a neighborhood, University City is a destination to explore food and culture. Enjoy the green spaces, outdoor markets, and close-knit community. Learn More Our Global Impact Penn is a leader in recruiting international faculty and is home to one of the largest and most diverse international communities in the Ivy League, so it’s only natural that our civic engagement projects extend far beyond the city limits. We partner with communities, organizations, and governments around the world to build networks, share ideas, and look for innovative, cross-disciplinary solutions to global problems. Our campus is incredibly welcoming to international students, helping them transition to life in Philadelphia and embracing their contributions to the Penn community. The sheer number of nationalities, religions, and points of view represented on Penn’s campus make it the perfect place to prepare for life and leadership in an increasingly diverse world. Landmark Global Initiatives Penn Global Penn Global provides a central location for students, faculty, administrators, and alumni to find information about Penn's global activities on and off campus. Learn More Office of the Provost for Global Initiatives The Office of the Provost for Global Initiatives provides strategic direction for Penn's global endeavors, including support of Penn's academic year study abroad, and international student services. Learn More International Student and Scholars Services ISSS provides core services to international students, visiting scholars, faculty and academic departments. Learn More Perry World House Perry World House is the home to Penn’s global activities, a gathering place for students and scholars to engage on issues of international concern, and an interdisciplinary research center designed to translate academic work into innovative approaches to global challenges. Learn More Continue to Research and Learning Opportunities 1 College Hall, Room 1, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6376 Footer Menu Join the mailing list Contact Us Accessibility Privacy Policy NACAC Partnership Agreement