Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Fees & Payment Options Student Budget The cost of attendance for 2022-23 is $79,540 and includes: Tuition: $57,410 Room charge: $10,960 Board rate: $7,670 Estimated miscellaneous expenses: $3,500 The room charge and board rate are standard for the University dormitories and meal plans. Estimated miscellaneous expenses include the activities fee and class dues. These items, totaling an estimated $250 of the $3,500 estimated for books and personal expenses, are billed by the University along with tuition, room, and board. Financial aid credits are deducted from the University bill of $76,040 for those who qualify, leaving the remainder due as a family payment on either a semester or monthly basis. This estimate does not include the cost of travel, which may range between $300 and $5,000. Students who are not covered by a family health insurance policy must purchase Student Health Plan coverage; the plan's cost for the 2021-22 academic year was $2,780. Payment Options Princeton offers different methods for paying the University bill: One payment each semester: If you choose the semester plan, one-half of Princeton’s charges will be due in the fall and one-half in the spring. Any subsequent miscellaneous charges a student incurs (for example, charging books to the student account) are due in full during the semester the charge is made. Ten monthly payments: The monthly payment plan allows you to spread payments out over the academic year, from August through May. The enrollment fee for this option is $40 per semester. Princeton Parent Loan (PPL): This loan gives families the opportunity to borrow their share of Princeton’s costs at either a variable or a fixed interest rate (currently 1.60 percent variable and 3.99 percent fixed) that is adjusted before the start of each academic year. The PPL is available to families based on their credit history and ability to meet repayment terms. Further information about the PPL may be obtained from the Parent Loan Office. Direct PLUS Loan: PLUS is a federally sponsored direct loan to parents who may borrow up to the cost of attendance less financial aid received. The PLUS interest rate was fixed at 6.28 percent in 2021-22, and program fees of up to 4.228 percent may be charged. Financing Options for students and parents Learn More Full content of http://www.princeton.edu/pr/aid/pdf/2122/PU-financing-options.pdf Federal Parent and Student Loan Information studentaid.gov Visit the site Full content of https://studentaid.gov Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746