Skip to main content Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Connect Visit Apply Search Search Menu Menu Search for: Search Clear Search Close Search Our StudentsToggle Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus LifeToggle Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Connect Visit Apply Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Financial Support Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Financial Support Making Duke Possible At Duke, we do more than offer financial aid. We offer support. Our goal is to ensure that students have the resources to attend and thrive—from application to graduation and all the experiences in between. Financial Support 51% Of Duke undergraduates receive aid Post-Graduation 70% Of Duke students graduate debt-free Quote Created with Sketch. A wealth of exciting opportunities are within reach for all students at Duke. We encourage you to use the cost calculators to learn how affordable Duke can be. Process Overview HOW IT WORKS Applying for financial aid can be daunting—that’s why we’re here to break things down, help you get started, and make Duke a reality. 01 Estimate Determine your approximate cost. Get Started 02 Apply Complete your application. Learn More 03 Review Evaluate your offer with us. Learn More 04 Renew Reapply each year. Learn More Apply for Financial Aid Nov 16 / Early decision deadline For both CSS and FAFSA applications Feb 1 / Regular decision deadline For both CSS and FAFSA applications Apply for Financial Support Arrow Right Created with Sketch. Open Estimate Your Cost TAKE THE FIRST STEP Use our calculators to estimate your overall cost to attend and how much financial aid you may receive. MyinTuition Calculator Get a quick, ballpark estimate of your cost. GET STARTED Net Price Calculator Get an in-depth estimate and information about your costs. GET STARTED Steps to Apply DETERMINE YOUR NEXT STEPS Figure out the steps necessary for you to complete your financial aid application using three factors. I'm a U.S. citizen U.S. resident undocumented international , applying for early regular decision and my parents are married divorced 01 - Prepare Your Application Toggle Ensure that your application for undergraduate admission indicates a “yes” in the financial aid interest box. If you did not initially check this box, you must do so by contacting the Office of Undergraduate Admissions to change your designation. International applicants who indicate interest in financial aid are considered in a separate admission pool, and those admitted with “no financial aid interest” are ineligible to apply for financial aid for any year of undergraduate study. 02 - Submit Your Application Toggle To be considered for institutional aid, submit your 2022-23 CSS Profile Application online by February 1st. 03 - Check Your Email Toggle Submit any additional forms if requested. Some applicants may be required to submit additional documentation to the College Board. If you receive this request, you will receive an email communication from the College Board providing you with instructions on how to submit documents through their online IDOC service. If you are asked to submit additional documentation to the College Board, please provide your family’s current year or most recent foreign tax forms and an English language statement from both parents’ employers stating the amount of their annual income. If your parents are not employed or are self-employed, they can fill out a non-filer form documenting that they do not file taxes and can report their yearly income in the box provided on the form. All documents and earnings statements should be officially translated in English and both the original and translated copy should be provided to the office. Please note: as a part of the translation please provide the exchange of currency as well from the original monetary values into US dollars. If you do not receive a request to submit additional information, the Karsh Office of Undergraduate Financial Support has enough information to provide a financial aid award at the time of admission. 04 - Review Your Aid Award Toggle Review your aid award. When you receive your letter of admission to Duke, you’ll receive your aid award as well. Once you decide to enroll at Duke you will receive instructions in June on how to complete the steps to receive your funding. Note: Duke University issues four-year aid awards for international applicants. Once your aid award is complete, it will be automatically renewed for your subsequent years at Duke. You will be required to attend a financial aid session upon your arrival to Duke in order for your aid to be applied. To learn more about international student aid, the application process, and details regarding this mandatory session, please contact us at finaid@duke.edu. 01 - Prepare Your Application Toggle Ensure your application for undergraduate admission indicates a “yes” in the financial aid interest box. If you did not initially check this box, you must do so by contacting the Office of Undergraduate Admissions to change your designation. International applicants who indicate interest in financial aid are considered in a separate admission pool, and those admitted with “no financial aid interest” are ineligible to apply for financial aid for any year of undergraduate study. 02 - Submit Your Application Toggle To be considered for institutional aid, submit your 2022-23 CSS Profile Application online by Nov. 16. 03 - Check Your Email Toggle Submit any additional forms if requested. Some applicants may be required to submit additional documentation to the College Board. If you receive this request, you will receive an email communication from the College Board providing you with instructions on how to submit documents through their online IDOC service. If you are asked to submit additional documentation to the College Board, please provide your family’s current year or most recent foreign tax forms and an English language statement from both parents’ employers stating the amount of their annual income. If your parents are not employed or are self-employed, they can fill out a non-filer form documenting that they do not file taxes and can report their yearly income in the box provided on the form. All documents and earnings statements should be officially translated in English and both the original and translated copy should be provided to the office. Please note: as a part of the translation please provide the exchange of currency as well from the original monetary values into US dollars. If you do not receive a request to submit additional information, the Karsh Office of Undergraduate Financial Support has enough information to provide a financial aid award at the time of admission. 04 - Review Your Aid Award Toggle Review your aid award. When you receive your letter of admission to Duke, you’ll receive your aid award as well. Once you decide to enroll at Duke you will receive instructions in June on how to complete the steps to receive your funding. Note: Duke University issues four-year aid awards for international applicants. Once your aid award is complete, it will be automatically renewed for your subsequent years at Duke. You will be required to attend a financial aid session upon your arrival to Duke in order for your aid to be applied. To learn more about international student aid, the application process, and details regarding this mandatory session, please contact us at finaid@duke.edu. 01 - Submit CSS Profile Toggle To be considered for institutional aid, submit the CSS Profile online by February 1. 02 - Submit FAFSA Toggle Submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) online by February 1. Please use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool to import your information into the FAFSA. Note: Undocumented students should skip this step. 03 - Submit Additional Forms (if Requested) Toggle Submit any additional forms if requested. Some applicants may be required to submit taxes and/or additional documentation to the College Board. If this is the case, you will receive email communication from the College Board providing you with instructions on how to submit any additional requirements through their online IDOC service. If you do not receive a request to submit additional information, the Karsh Office of Undergraduate Financial Support has enough information to provide an estimated financial aid award at the time of admission. 04 - Review Your Estimate Toggle Review your aid offer. Once you decide to enroll at Duke, you will be emailed instructions in June on how to complete the steps to receive your funding. 01 - Submit CSS Profile Toggle Both parents will need to complete a separate CSS Profile by February 1. We will calculate a separate contribution for each parent and add them together to determine an Expected Family Contribution. If one or both of your parents are remarried, we will remove consideration of income earned by your stepparent. Admitted students with completed financial aid applications received by the deadline will receive financial aid estimates with their Admissions packets by April 1. 02 - Submit FAFSA Toggle Submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) online by February 1. The parent with whom the student lives the most should complete the FAFSA. If the student spends equal time with each parent, the parent who provides the most financial support should complete the FAFSA. Please use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool to import your information into the FAFSA. Note: Undocumented students should skip this step. 03 - Submit Additional Forms (if Requested) Toggle Submit any additional forms if requested. Some applicants may be required to submit taxes and/or additional documentation to the College Board. If this is the case, you will receive an email communication from the College Board providing you with instructions on how to submit any additional requirements through their online IDOC service. If you do not receive a request to submit additional information, the Karsh Office of Undergraduate Financial Support has enough information to provide an estimated financial aid award at the time of admission. 04 - Review Your Estimate Toggle Review your aid offer. Once you decide to enroll at Duke, you will be emailed instructions in June on how to complete the steps to receive your funding. 01 - Submit CSS Profile Toggle Submit the CSS Profile online by the November 16 priority deadline to receive your aid estimate with your Admissions letter and information packet. Completed applications received after November 16 but before November 30 may receive an estimate in January. 02 - Submit FAFSA Toggle Submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) online by November 16. Please use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool to import your information into the FAFSA. Note: Undocumented students should skip this step. 03 - Submit Additional Forms (if Requested) Toggle Submit any additional forms if requested. Some applicants may be required to submit taxes and/or additional documentation to the College Board. If this is the case, you will receive email communication from the College Board providing you with instructions on how to submit any additional requirements through their online IDOC service. If you do not receive a request to submit additional information, the Karsh Office of Undergraduate Financial Support has enough information to provide an estimated financial aid award at the time of admission. 04 - Review Your Estimate Toggle Review your aid estimate. It will be based on the cost of attendance for 2021-2022, and we’ll update it in the spring once the official 2022-2023 cost of attendance is announced. If you qualified for need-based grant aid and the cost of attendance for 2022-2023 is higher than the current year, we’ll increase your grant aid to cover the difference. 01 - Submit CSS Profile Toggle Both parents will need to complete a separate CSS Profile by November 16. We will calculate a separate contribution for each parent and add them together to determine an Expected Family Contribution. If one or both of your parents are remarried, we will remove consideration of income earned by your stepparent. Admitted students with completed financial aid applications received by the deadline will receive financial aid estimates with their Admissions packets in December. Completed applications received after November 16 but before November 30 may receive an estimate in January. 02 - Submit FAFSA Toggle Submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) online by November 16. Only the custodial parent (or the parent with whom the student lives the most) should complete the FAFSA application. Please use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool to import your information into the FAFSA. *Note: Undocumented students should skip this step. 03 - Submit Additional Forms (if Requested) Toggle Submit any additional forms if requested. Some applicants may be required to submit taxes and/or additional documentation to the College Board. If this is the case, you will receive email communication from the College Board providing you with instructions on how to submit any additional requirements through their online IDOC service. If you do not receive a request to submit additional information, the Karsh Office of Undergraduate Financial Support has enough information to provide an estimated financial aid award at the time of admission. 04 - Review Your Estimate Toggle Review your aid estimate. It will be based on the cost of attendance for 2021-2022, and we’ll update it in the spring once the official 2022-2023 cost of attendance is announced. If you qualified for need-based grant aid and the cost of attendance for 2022-2023 is higher than the current year, we’ll increase your grant aid to cover the difference. Learn More The Karsh Office of Undergraduate Financial Support The Office of University Scholars and Fellows Open Annual Costs LET’S BREAK IT DOWN Tuition & Fees $60,594 Room $9,164 Board $8,320 Books, Supplies $3,410 Estimated Cost $81,488* *exclusive of transportation Learn More The Karsh Office of Undergraduate Financial Support The Office of University Scholars and Fellows Open Our Students 01 Campus Life 02 Financial Support 03 Join Our Mailing List Sign Up Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support © DUKE.EDU 2022 Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Disable Animations