Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Love Tsai Class of 2023 back Click to Close Bio Hello there, friend! My name is Love and I am a '23. Aside from being on the pre-med track, I'm currently interested in studying math and public policy. I have a penchant for old things, learning languages, and the arts. I also love personality tests, irrespective of their actual validity—in case you're curious, I'm an INFJ, Scorpio, dragon, and type 2w1. Academic Program Pre-med, math with a minor in public policy Favorite Thing Right Now the food my mom made and froze for me before spring term Hometown Metro Detroit, Michigan Pronouns She/her/hers About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Goodbye, 22S back Click to Close Love's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallOn Campus Favorite Class: Biology 11.07: Major Events in the History of Life and the Human Genome BIOL 11.07 (Major Events in the History of Life and the Human Genome) is a very unique class. We learn topics such as oxidative phosphorylation in conjunction with evolution and paleontology. In other words, where and when did ETC come from, and how can we support our hypothesis? Though not an easy class by far, every day the material I learn amazes me with the wonder of life, which is how biology should be! WinterOn Campus Favorite Class: MES 7.03: Jerusalem: Vision and Reality MES 7.03 (Jerusalem: Vision and Reality) was my First-Year Seminar and such an interesting class to take! We explored Jerusalem through three main viewpoints (Judaism, Christianity, and Islam). The class had a bit of religion, literature, anthropology, sociology, and even geography—all things I love to study but don't necessarily have the space for with our three-class quarters. I often found myself going to office hours just to talk with my professor about questions I had outside of the reading! SpringRemote Learning, At Home Favorite Class: COSC 10: Problem Solving with Object-Oriented Programming COSC 10 (Problem Solving with Object-Oriented Programming) is a data structures course and the last pre-requisite for the computer science major. Though I added it as a fourth class on a whim because of COVID-19 and remote learning, it quickly became my favorite class this term because I loved the problem solving that CS has to offer. It is a difficult class but the emotional and academic rewards make it all worth it! Sophomore Year Click to Open FallRemote Learning, At Home Favorite Class: ENGS 13: Virtual Medicine and Cybercare This was one of four classes I took during fall term and it was super interesting! We learned about healthcare systems and innovations from around 4 guest lecturers per week, and were able to do research on our own and propose a new system at the end of the term. Students came from all over campus and the course was very enlightening for me in terms of understanding how care is dispensed in the U.S. and how we can improve it. WinterRemote Learning, At Home Favorite Class: BIOL 13: Gene Expression and Inheritance Though this was my first "foundation" course in the Biology department and I still found it challenging, I really enjoyed learning the material and found it all super exciting! We learned about DNA replication, mRNA transcription and protein translation, genetics, and had the opportunity to do a literature review at the end of the term. SpringRemote Learning, At Home Favorite Class: CHEM 51: Organic Chemistry I The dreaded Organic Chemistry sequence of my pre-med track came upon me faster than I thought it would, but it surprised me by being one of my favorite classes to date! I found it intellectually interesting (even though it was time-consuming), probably because I treated it like a STEM-and-logic puzzle instead of pure STEM or pure memorization. Am I great at it? Not necessarily. Do I remember everything I've learned? I'm not too sure! Am I mentally ready for Organic Chemistry 2 next term? Not at all! But I had a lot of fun doing this class and surprised even myself with how I tackled it. SummerOn-campus Favorite Class: AAAS 31.10: Dance Theatre of Harlem Workshop: Collaborative Storytelling Through Movement I love dancing, story-telling, and learning about different cultures so I knew going into this course that I would enjoy it. Cross-listed in the theater and AAAS departments, this course let students have the privilege of working with Dance Theatre of Harlem members who were in Hanover for a summer residency. As a group, we analyzed a play ("The Purple Flower" by Marita Bonner) and transformed the text into a physical movement piece. Each student also had complete ownership of a personal final project, and I opted to do a self-choreographed dance. Overall, I loved getting the chance to work creatively in my academics this term and I also was able to broaden my perspective and knowledge of the African-American story in the process! Junior Year Click to Open FallOn-campus Favorite Class: HIST 36: Health Care in American Society: History and Current Issues As a pre-med, I am constantly trying to learn more about the U.S medical system. This course was extremely engaging in all aspects, taking students through all of American history through the lens of healthcare within the span of 10 weeks. I particularly liked having a discussion session that replaced a lecture, since we were able to talk about the issues with the professor and think out loud about our readings. The course was definitely challenging and required a lot of synthesis across different time periods and topics, but I feel like I came out of it with a deeper and more profound understanding of our healthcare system and why it functions the way it does today. WinterOff-campus For my junior winter, I did an internship in clinical research! With COVID affecting so much of my college experience, this practical, in-person work internship was very important for me to not only hone my employable skills but also see what having a 8am - 5pm job looks like and how it could fit into my future. « All Posts by this Blogger Goodbye, 22S Happy last week of classes! We are in the home stretch of spring term, and I (once again) cannot believe that ten weeks flew by so quickly. College itself is a marathon, but Dartmouth terms are definitely sprints. I myself have always liked the fast-paced nature of the quarter system, although I will acknowledge that it is hard to develop a more sustainable lifestyle since things pass by so quickly. I, for example, had wanted to go to the gym more regularly this term since we do pay for membership through our tuition and I think it is important to keep active. It is now Week 10 and I haven't stepped foot in the gym once this term (whoops), because things kept snowballing with four courses, research, extracurriculars, etc. But there is always next term! After I finish my papers and exams on June 6th, I will officially be a rising senior. That in itself is such a crazy (and scary) thing to think about, especially because I don't necessarily feel like I am at that stage of maturity and leadership yet. I do know, however, that growth comes through opportunity and challenges. I am sure that I will rise to the occasion when the time does approach. Come fall, we will welcome the '26s, I'll need to start looking for gap year jobs, and everything will be the beginning of the end. I think I may be a bit sentimental because we have begun saying goodbye to the '22s already, who really had a huge part in shaping my college experience alongside the '20s. Right now, they're finishing up final projects, presenting senior theses, and eagerly anticipating Senior Week, the time between finals and graduation when the entire class just has fun on-campus together before leaving for the last time. I'm so excited for them, even though I'm sad to see them go. All in all, it was a really good term! I got to go to a conference out-of-state, which helped me break out of the Dartmouth bubble for a weekend. I got to go canoeing with my dance group when the weather became nicer. I balanced four courses in-person (!) which is more than I ever thought I could do as a pre-med, even if my grades in certain classes could be better. I made so many new friends and strengthened relationships with old ones. I went on many Woccoms (walks around Occom Pond) with friends, sometimes looping around multiple times to continue our conversations. I experienced my first Green Key with music and lines galore, and had a lot of fun at formal. There are definitely things I could have done better, such as being more diligent about going to the gym, practicing more biochem, or reaching out to certain people to reconnect after a term away. But overall, I am happy with how my spring term went and am so grateful for such a wonderful time amidst COVID and an always-chaotic world. I hope you've enjoyed reading my posts this term. I will be back soon, with more escapades and lengthy reflections to help you see the Dartmouth that I see every day. This week, I will be frantically reviewing transaminase pathways, writing papers, and cramming as much knowledge into my brain before heading home for some much-needed rest and quality time with family. Thank you for reading my posts and spending some time with me. I'll see you soon! Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/31/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Finals end-of-term reflection Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Posts You Might Like Visit the Blog Greenkey: dancing in a field to internationally famous mucisians in Hanover! Dartmouth has too many traditions to name, but Greenkey is one of the best ones! Read on to find out about my experience this year! Read More Luke Grayson 2025 Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Freshman Year: A Retrospective A look back at my first year at Dartmouth! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 Taking my Professor to Lunch! Here's a reflection on my experience taking my computer science professor out for a free meal paid for by the school! Read More Jack Heaphy 2024 Work Hard, Play Hard: A Green Key Weekend at Dartmouth! After two years, Dartmouth's annual spring festival, known affectionately as Green Key, occurred this weekend! The weekend held many events, but even so, I saw the Dartmouth culture of work hard, play hard. Read More Tulio Huggins 2023 Alumni Interview I sat down with my friend, Ali '20, who conducts interviews, to gain some insight into what students should expect for the interviews. Read More Caroline York 2025 Saint Motel Meets Hanover: Green Key 2022! As the 23s, 24s, and 25s shared our first Green Key together, Dartmouth ended up bringing my middle-school self's favorite band to campus: here's how my Green Key went! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Green Key!!!!!! It's a Dartmouth tradition to celebrate Green Key every spring. What exactly is Green Key you ask? In short, it is one of the best weekends ever. Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 Green Key 2022! Last week was week 8 of spring term at Dartmouth, which means only one thing: Green Key! Read More Love Tsai 2023 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback