Enrollment Services departments are open for in-person and virtual services. Please check the Enrollment Services Update page for hours, service offerings, and contact methods. For the latest campus reopening plans, safety guidelines, and requirements, visit Campus Return. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quick Access MyUCR Admitted Students First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Cost to Attend About Riverside Publications Videos Get UCR in Your Inbox Contact Us UC Riverside Undergraduate Admissions UNIQUE. COMMITTED. REAL. Search Home Admissions First Year Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR Resources & Support Dates & Deadlines Meet Your Counselor Virtual Events Request Information Transfer Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR Transfer Admission Guarantee Majors Preparation Guide 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 Resources & Support Dates & Deadlines Meet Your Counselor Schedule An Appointment Virtual Events Request Information Out-of-State Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR Out-of-State First Year Out-of-State Transfer Resources & Support Dates & Deadlines Meet Your Counselor Virtual Events Request Information International Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR International First Year International Transfer Visa & Entry Requirements Dates & Deadlines Resources & Support Meet Your Counselor Virtual Events Request Information Community Engagement Outreach Black Student Experience Chicanx Latinx Student Experience Middle Eastern Student Experience Native American Student Experience Blue, Gold & Black Podcast Veterans & Military Affiliated Former Foster Youth Parents/Guardians Counselors Admitted Students Cost First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Majors I Want to Major In ... Engineering Humanities Sciences Education Business Medicine Public Policy Dates & Deadlines First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Visit Campus Tours Virtual Tours Getting to UC Riverside About Riverside Campus Tours FAQ Events Events at UCR Slice of Life First Year: Virtual Events Transfers: Virtual Events College Fairs Virtual Admission Presentations Slice of Life News Contact Us UCR Home Quick Access MyUCR Admitted Students First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Cost to Attend About Riverside Publications Videos Get UCR in Your Inbox Contact Us Veterans & Military Affiliated Breadcrumb Veterans & Military Affiliated Find a Network of Support at UCR. As a student veteran or service member, you'll receive dedicated support from the moment you apply to UCR. Get assistance from an admissions counselor during the application process. Connect with our Financial Aid office to maximize your education benefits. Discover opportunities and build community at the Veterans Resource Center (VRC). UCR is proud to be recognized as one of the best universities in the United States for student veterans. UCR is a Yellow Ribbon Program campus, which means that the university and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs provide funds to cover all nonresident supplemental tuition and fees for eligible students in all majors, with no limit. Attend a university committed to your success. Apply to UCR today! Applying to UCR Prospective freshman students can only apply for fall admission to UCR, while prospective transfer students can apply for either winter or fall admission. The winter application period is July 1–31 and the fall application period is Nov. 1–30. Learn more about applying to UCR as a freshman. Learn more about applying to UCR as a transfer. Contact Us First! Before you apply to UCR, contact an admissions counselor! They can review your transcripts to determine if you should apply as a freshman or transfer. Download a Military/Veteran Checklist Prepare for admission to UCR with the Military/Veteran Admission Checklist. Download the Transfer Student Experience Brochure Learn about the programs, resources and opportunities available to UCR students in the Transfer Student Experience Brochure. “UCR fosters a great learning environment. The campus is kept clean and it feels like springtime throughout the year. The professors are very knowledgeable in their respective fields and show enthusiasm for teaching, which makes learning more fun.” William Vasquez Marine Corps Financial Aid Learn how affordable a UCR degree can be! UCR's Financial Aid office is here to help you maximize the educational benefits you earned through your military service. Follow these steps to access your benefits: 1. Apply to and be admitted to UCR. 2. Apply for Financial Aid by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by the March 2 deadline. 3. Establish your educational benefits eligibility through the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. 4. Once you've enrolled in classes at UCR, certify your enrollment with the Financial Aid office. Learn more about how Financial Aid works with student veterans and servicemembers. UCR Federal School Code: 001316 To qualify for financial aid, you need to complete the Free Application for Financial Aid (FAFSA) each year by March 2. As a student veteran or servicemember, you may be eligible for exemption from the Deferred Payment Plan (DPP) application fee and the first late fee each quarter. Through DPP, you can pay your tuition and fees in three installments each quarter with no interest. If you were disabled while on active duty after Sept. 11, 2001, you could qualify for the Operation Education Scholarship program at UCR. Get financial assistance for tuition, fees, books and living expenses, as well as academic, home and social support. The application deadline is May 15. “The Student Veterans Organization is a great tool for us on campus. It has provided me the camaraderie that has been missing since leaving the military and has helped with planning my future and figuring out programs offered on campus that help me succeed in that endeavor.” Edward Blodgett Marine Corps For Military/Veteran Students Tami Thacker Veterans Services Coordinator (951) 827-2099 tamarat@ucr.edu Chris Henthorn VA School Certifying Official/Financial Aid (951) 827-6162 vasco@ucr.edu Resources & Support UCR offers dedicated programs and resources for student veterans and servicemembers. Get the support you need to earn your degree and start a new career. Housing Our Housing office can help you find a military roommate (if desired) and will work with you if your GI Bill payment is late. Operation Education Scholarship In addition to financial assistance, students who receive the Operation Education Scholarship are also provided with academic, home and social support. Operation VETS Operation VETS (Veteran, Employment, Transition, Success) is a career-development program designed for student veterans and servicemembers of all majors and class levels. Priority Enrollment Enjoy priority enrollment beginning your second quarter at UCR so that you can get the classes you need. Student Organizations UCR is home to more than 500 student organizations, including the Student Veterans Organization, a group offering community and support to student veterans and service members on campus and through social activities. Veterans Resource Center (VRC) The VRC is the go-to support center for you and your dependents at UCR. Located in Bannockburn H-108, the center is where you can find resources, get referrals, use computers and printers for classwork, get free Scantrons and blue books at exam time, connect with other student veterans and servicemembers and just hang out between classes. Brochures Veterans Resource Brochure Read more about how UCR supports student veterans and servicemembers. Learn more about applying to UCR as veteran or servicemember, contact Undergraduate Admissions today! Learn more about the resources available at UCR to all first-year, transfer, out-of-state and international students. For Military/Veteran Students Tami Thacker Veterans Services Coordinator (951) 827-2099 tamarat@ucr.edu Chris Henthorn VA School Certifying Official/Financial Aid (951) 827-6162 vasco@ucr.edu Contact A Counselor Apply to UCR Get UCR in Your Inbox Visit UCR CONNECT WITH UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS ADMISSIONS First-Year Transfer Out-of-State International Veterans & Military Affiliated Former Foster Youth Parents/Guardians Counselors Community Engagement Outreach Admitted Students COST First-Year Transfer Out-of-State International MAJORS I Want To Major In Engineering Humanities Sciences Education Business Medicine Public Policy DATES/DEADLINES First-Year Transfer Out-of-State International VISIT Campus Tours Virtual Tours Getting to UC Riverside About Riverside Campus Tours FAQ EVENTS Events at UCR Highlander Days First-Year: Virtual Events Transfer: Virtual Events College Fairs Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-3411 fax: (951) 827-6344 questions: admissions.ucr.edu/ask FIND US Follow Us: Related Links Apply to UC Riverside Athletics - Go Highlanders Events Calendar Financial Aid MyUCR - Admissions Portal Support UCR Students Tartan Soul Visit UC Riverside Disclaimer This information is accurate and reliable at time of posting but may change without notice. Please contact Undergraduate Admissions for the most up-to-date information. Learn about our privacy policy. Campus Security and Fire Safety Report The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act) requires UCR (as an institution of higher education receiving federal financial aid) to report specified crime statistics on college campuses and to provide other safety and crime information to all current and prospective students and employees. The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is available on the Chief Compliance Office website. If you would like a paper copy of the Report, you may contact the Clery Coordinator via email at clery@ucr.edu or by phone at (951) 827-6223. Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel