Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home Contact Contact the Office of Admissions Undergraduate Students Request Information Graduate Students Request Information Address Florida State University Office of Admissions A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee FL 32306-2400 Institutional Reporting Codes ACT: 0734 SAT, GMAT, GRE, and TOEFL: 5219 FICE/CEEB: 001489 FL Bright Futures: 371 Telephone Numbers Phone - 850.644.6200 Fax - 850.644.0197 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Residency - residency@fsu.edu College Fair invitations - collegefairinfo@fsu.edu Application Changes Change Form MEET OUR TEAM Find Your First-Year Counselor Regional Admissions Counselors Marissa Hollenbacher m.hollenbacher@fsu.edu Greater Jacksonville Area Learn more about me Michelle O'Brien she/her mrcampbell@fsu.edu Greater Tampa Bay Area Learn more about me Mallory Cotter she/her mlcotter@fsu.edu Greater Palm Beach Area Learn more about me Al-Rashad Ali he/him aali3@fsu.edu Greater Miami-Dade Area Learn more about me Andrea Flores she/her andrea.flores@fsu.edu Greater Orlando Area Learn more about me First-Year Admissions Counselors Cara Axelrod she/her caxelrod@fsu.edu Scholarships Learn more about me Samantha Buxbaum she/her sbuxbaum@fsu.edu Scholarships Learn more about me Olivia Brink she/her okbrink@fsu.edu Learn more about me Devin Elliott she/her dmelliott@fsu.edu Learn more about me Katelyn Chandler she/her k.chandler@fsu.edu Seminole Pathways Learn more about me Michael Alberto malberto@fsu.edu Visitor Services Learn more about me Dana Matthews she/her damatthews@fsu.edu Scholarships Learn more about me Lisa McGrady she/her lmcgrady@fsu.edu Assistant Director Visitor Services Learn more about me Transfer Admissions Counselors Stacie Boatwright she/her sboatwright@fsu.edu Learn more about me Sarah Sikes she/her ssikes@fsu.edu Learn more about me Allison Helms she/her ahelms@fsu.edu Assistant Director Learn more about me Directors Lori Hamilton she/her lhamilton@fsu.edu Transfer Admissions Associate Director Learn more about me Julie Rubin she/her julie.rubin@fsu.edu First-Year Admissions Associate Director Learn more about me Erin Verity she/her erin.verity@fsu.edu Associate Director Learn more about me Christina Smith she/her christina.smith@fsu.edu Operations Associate Director Learn more about me Anthony Russo he/him amrusso@fsu.edu Communications Associate Director Learn more about me Hege Ferguson she/her hferguson@fsu.edu Director of Admissions Quick Links Seminole Tribe Land Acknowledgement College & Career Planning Tool Career Center Academic Program Guide FSU Highlights Apply Online Visit Us Publications Check Your Application Status Application Changes Form Residency Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Aspire TCC2FSU Program FSU-Panama City Campus The Graduate School Student Veterans Center Office of Accessibility Services Professional Licensure Transfer Student Services Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University. × Marissa Hollenbacher m.hollenbacher@fsu.edu Greater Jacksonville Area Hometown: Jacksonville, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.S. (Communications/Public Relations) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: My favorite thing is all the outdoor parks and picnic areas that students can visit. Tallahassee is a unique part of Florida that makes you feel like you are elsewhere in the world. You get all four seasons, hills, beautiful oak trees, red brick buildings, and a ton of outdoor things to do. What I enjoy the most about FSU: FSU becomes your family from the minute you step on campus. The FSU community is like no other and comes together as one to make each student part of the Seminole family. My advice for future Seminoles: Take a chance on campus. Get involved, explore new hobbies, try something you never thought you would do, and make memories. You are only at college one time in your life, make the most of it. There is something for everyone at FSU, you just must be willing to branch out of your comfort zone. Close × Michelle O'Brien she/her mrcampbell@fsu.edu Greater Tampa Bay and Southwest Florida Hometown: Tampa, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.A. (English); M.S. (Marketing & Management Communications) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: The parks and locally owned businesses. There are plenty of beautiful outdoor spaces in town to explore, and all the locally owned restaurants, shops, and markets are a point of pride within the Tallahassee community. What I enjoy the most about FSU: FSU's commitment to helping students succeed inside and outside of the classroom. There are countless resources available that give students the opportunity to explore their passions, engage with different communities, and discover who they are as individuals. My advice for future Seminoles: Take this opportunity to step outside of your comfort zone. Get involved, expand your circle of friends whenever possible, and allow yourself to partake in new experiences. Close × Al-Rashad Ali she/her aali3@fsu.edu Greater Southeast Florida Miami-Dade and Monroe Counties Hometown: Queens, NY Degrees: Florida Atlantic University, B.A. (Interdisciplinary Studies: Social Sciences); B.A. (Sociology) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: My favorite thing about Tallahassee is that it is the friendliest place in Florida. In fact, it might be in friendliest place in the entire world! What I enjoy the most about FSU: I enjoy how we want to uplift students by trying to ensure their success here at FSU, as well as our dedication to uplifting underrepresented students. There is a strong sense of community and the ability to find your own place within the larger FSU community. My advice for future Seminoles: Take one step at a time and do not rush. Make sure you know your important dates and plan for them. Always check your email because it will be one of your best friends! Take advantage of opportunities and always ask questions. Close × Andrea Flores she/her andrea.flores@fsu.edu Hometown: Miami, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.S. (Psychology) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: All the green space! Coming from a big city, I loved being able to study or sip coffee under the massive oak trees. What I enjoy the most about FSU: How warm and welcoming campus is. From the first day I stepped onto FSU's campus, I felt at home. Whether it was just a simple wave as I crossed paths with another student, new friends inviting me into a study group in the library, or how helpful and courteous faculty and staff were, I knew I had found somewhere special! My advice for future Seminoles: Live on campus if you can! It will help you meet people, get connected across campus, and help ease the transition into college. Close × Mallory Cotter she/her mlcotter@fsu.edu Greater Southeast Florida Palm Beach Hometown: Jupiter, FL Degrees: Boston College, B.S. (Environmental Geoscience) & B.A. (Theatre Arts); University of Florida, M.S. (Agricultural Education and Communication) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: The surrounding natural areas and being able to get outside year-round! What I enjoy the most about FSU: The sense of community. From a walk across campus to a big Saturday tailgate, there is a welcoming energy to FSU that comes from the students, faculty, and graduates. People are proud of their connection to the Florida State and share that openly with each other. My advice for future Seminoles: Step outside your major. Some of my favorite college experiences were from classes and clubs that were interests outside of my degree. You have so many opportunities academically and socially available to you during your time at college, so take advantage and explore! Close × Saisha Delevoe she/her sdelevoe@fsu.edu Broward County, Florida Hometown: Fort Lauderdale, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.S. (Finance) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: My favorite thing about Tallahassee is the beautiful canopy roads. They are my favorite sight to see for a morning run or decorated for a festival downtown. What I enjoy the most about FSU: The traditions at FSU are unmatched. I definitely enjoyed hanging out in the union during "Market Wednesday" to see all of the wonderful things that student organizations are doing and to shop all the student and local vendors! My advice for future Seminoles: My advice to future Noles would be to use your time at FSU to build a relationship with yourself first. While there are so many things to get involved in on campus for pure fun and recreation, take a moment to really review all the resources that FSU provides as a career catalyst for life after graduation. Take advantage of the Career Center, UROP, International Programs, and Coaching. Ask questions about resources because we probably have it! Really form genuine and diverse relationships with your classmates because they will be your next business partners, mentors, connections, and clients when you graduate. Close × Cara Axelrod she/her caxelrod@fsu.edu New York and New England Area Hometown: Sunrise, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.S. (Psychology) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: Tallahassee has a thriving foodie culture with local gems and coveted regional chains all over town. Because we are the metropolitan hub of the Big Bend region, people travel from all around to experience the southern charm and wide selection of Tallahassee's food culture. What I enjoy the most about FSU: Most of all, I love FSU's willingness to go above and beyond to meet its students' needs. Our campus and departments are continuously growing and adapting to serve the students of today. We pride ourselves on not just pointing students towards a destination, but also helping them find their way there. My advice for future Seminoles: All the activities and events on campus are for you. There are departments and offices all over campus whose sole jobs are to create meaningful programs for you to get to know your peers and engage in personal development. These are not for "some other student"; they are for YOU! Take advantage of them. Close × Samantha Buxbaum she/her sbuxbaum@fsu.edu Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina Hometown: Little Rock, AR Degrees: Florida State University, B.A. (English); M.S. (Retail Entrepreneurship) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: Tallahassee has a never-ending list of great local restaurants. I also love some of the unique festivals that we host each year, as well as our great parks. I'm a regular at Cascades! What I enjoy the most about FSU: Besides the fact that FSU gave me an amazing college experience, it is also just so naturally beautiful. From the red brick to the Spanish moss, it's nice to just find a quiet spot on campus and soak it all in every once in a while! My advice for future Seminoles: Document your college journey! Take lots of pictures, save that ticket stub from your favorite football game, and create a memory box with tokens from all your favorite college memories. Close × Olivia Brink she/her okbrink@fsu.edu Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin Hometown: Tampa, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.S. (Social Science Education); M.S. (Curriculum and Instruction) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: I love the way the Tallahassee community comes together in support of all things Florida State. There are many alumni who live in the area (and a large number who travel back each year) who are not afraid to show off their FSU Seminole Pride. Whether it be attending football games in Doak Campbell Stadium, cheering on performers in the FSU Flying High Circus, or lining the streets for the annual FSU Homecoming Parade, our community is always more than willing to show their love for FSU. What I enjoy the most about FSU: I appreciate FSU's dedication to experiential learning, because getting an education is not limited to the classroom. These opportunities can take the form of internships, service learning, creative research, or even international study. FSU has built these types of experiences into its curriculum to allow for real world, hands-on experience that will successfully prepare students for life after college. My advice for future Seminoles: Take the time to learn more about all the resources we have on campus to help you succeed in and out of the classroom. From your professor's office hours, to the ACE Learning Studio, to the Career Center, FSU is an institution that strives to show you great you can be. Do not let any opportunity pass you by and take advantage of all FSU has built for you. Close × Devin Elliott she/her dmelliott@fsu.edu New Jersey, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Ohio, and Kentucky Hometown: Orlando, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.S. (Psychology) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: There is truly something for everyone here. Whether you prefer the outdoors and are looking for hiking trails and kayaking, or want the feel of big-city dining and nightlife, Tallahassee has it all. There are many parks, restaurants, museums, and shops to explore, so you'll never be bored in Tallahassee. What I enjoy the most about FSU: The opportunities FSU provides students to help them gain experience and grow as both a scholar and as a global citizen are incredible. Students are encouraged from the time they are newly admitted students all the way through their final semester to conduct student research, study abroad, apply for international fellowships, and take advantage of our invaluable Career Center resources. FSU will shape you in the best way, and in doing so prepare you for so much success in the future. My advice for future Seminoles: Pick at least one thing to get involved in outside of class your first semester. FSU has over 700 student organizations to choose from, a multitude of intramural sports teams to join, and even a student-run Circus, so there is truly something for everyone. Getting involved on campus is the best way to meet people, explore your passions, and make your first year that much more fulfilling. Close × Stafany Moncada she/her smoncada@fsu.edu Hometown: Miami, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.S. (Psychology); Keiser University, M.S.Ed. (College Administration) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: I love the casual atmosphere in Tallahassee. I also enjoy all the outdoor water activities like kayaking and visiting nearby springs. What I enjoy the most about FSU: What I enjoy most about FSU is how friendly everyone is and how passionate everyone is about FSU. We are proud to be a part of the Seminole family! My advice for future Seminoles: Go to all the events on campus, meet people, and take pictures to always remember your time at Florida State. Close × Katelyn Chandler k.chandler@fsu.edu Hometown: Riverview, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.A. (International Affairs and French); M.S. / Ed.S. (Counseling and Human Systems) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: There are so many local events throughout the city. My favorite events include Red Hills Horse Trials, North Florida Fair, First Friday at Railroad Square, and Saturday's Downtown Market. Explore your new home! What I enjoy the most about FSU: Florida State offers over 750 clubs and organizations, giving you the opportunity to expand your interests and skills. This is an excellent way to meet people while gaining confidence in yourself and your academics by engaging in a student organization, society, service or sport. My advice for future Seminoles: Try to create healthy habits early. It is easy to overwhelm yourself with a packed schedule or to overindulge in the amount of free time you have with friends. Find your balance and allow FSU to support you with a variety of resources when needed. Close × Michael Alberto malberto@fsu.edu Hometown: Pembroke Pines, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.A. (Food and Nutrition Science) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: The city is very laid back and it is a lot less hectic than most parts of Florida. I also enjoy watching the seasons change in northern Florida. What I enjoy the most about FSU: The cooperative spirit of FSU's staff and students makes me proud to be a part of it. I also love the wonderful feeling I get when I walk around campus. My advice for future Seminoles: I highly recommend living on campus your first year. Constantly being around other students is the best way to get involved and to have fun. Close × Jenna Stafford she/her jbstafford@fsu.edu Hometown: Gainesville, FL Degrees: Emory University, B.A. (Management & Political Science) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: In addition to beautiful canopy roads, Tallahassee has a robust creative community with art exhibits and theatre performances. Some of my favorite places are Cascades Park, Railroad Square Art District, and the Downtown Market. There are plenty of wonderful shops, restaurants, and outdoor excursions to experience. What I enjoy the most about FSU: Florida State University provides a strong sense of community for students. There are so many different ways to get involved for academic, personal and professional growth. Our motto is strength, skill, and character. We are a community committed to seeing students not only succeed but thrive during their time here. My advice for future Seminoles: Enjoy your time here at FSU. Challenge yourself to get involved, make new friendships and connections. Get to know your peers and professors and consider an alumni mentor. Explore and experience campus traditions and stop by Market Wednesdays when you can! Close × Dana Matthews she/her damatthews@fsu.edu Maryland, Washington DC, Virginia, and Delaware Hometown: Middletown, DE Degrees: Delaware State University, B.A. (English); Florida State University , M.A. (Media Communication Studies) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: The local restaurants and businesses are fantastic. There's always something unique going on around town and great new food spots to try. What I enjoy the most about FSU: FSU is a larger institution but it never feels that way. The students, staff, and faculty really create a great environment where people are accessible and helpful. You can always find someone willing to help. My advice for future Seminoles: Enjoy every part of your journey here. Each year will hold different milestones and opportunities that will shape the kind of person you will become. Be sure to embrace it and expand your horizons. Close × Lisa McGrady she/her lmcgrady@fsu.edu Hometown: Jacksonville, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.S. (Art Education) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: Tallahassee is a small town at heart. I love the slower pace of things and the fact that I can access everything in the city with a 25-minute drive or less. At the same time, it doesn't feel as small to students. FSU's campus is located within a 5-mile radius of FAMU, TCC and our state Capitol Building. This diverse, densely populated area of town comes alive during the school year, giving Tallahassee the best of both worlds. What I enjoy the most about FSU: I love how the university still feels like a small school, despite the tremendous growth we've experienced over the last thirty years. Students are still our focus here and first-year students have direct access to faculty and staff through a variety of programs as soon as they set foot on campus. The community is warm and friendly, which is one of the reasons I've always felt at home here. My advice for future Seminoles: Step outside your comfort zone. Keep in mind that this is a new experience for all first-year students, so you're not alone if you feel a bit apprehensive. Accept an invitation to the social events in your residence hall, attend an involvement fair, or just hang out on Landis Green for an afternoon. The connections you make in your first semester may last a lifetime, so don't be afraid to try something new. Close × Terrell Williams he/him tfwilliams@fsu.edu Hometown: Jacksonville, FL Degrees: Bethune-Cookman University, B.S. (Business Administration); Florida State University, M.S. (Higher Education) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: The cuisine. Tallahassee is home to many enjoyable locally owned restaurants, shops, and markets. What I enjoy the most about FSU: As a First-Generation student, I'm proud of the fact we have a "home base" for our first-generation and limited-income student population. This is a place where they can gain academic, psychological, and emotional support, as well as connect with others from similar backgrounds. My advice for future Seminoles: College is a marathon, not a sprint. Run your own race! Close × Mark Slik he/him mslik@fsu.edu Hometown: Monticello, FL Degrees: Park University, B.S. (Management Information Systems); Western Governors University, M.S. (Management and Leadership) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: Tallahassee has a broad variety of outdoor space for activities. Hiking, swimming, climbing, and boating can all be done in Tallahassee. What I enjoy the most about FSU: Everyone can find a home at FSU. We have world class musical groups if you want to try singing, the best stages if you want to try acting, our very own Flying High Circus if you want to join the circus, or all the structures to help you if you're thinking about starting a business. If you want to try it, FSU has the support to make that dream a reality. My advice for future Seminoles: Be willing to explore all the dimensions that will help you contribute to making the world a better place. Close × Stacie Boatwright she/her sboatwright@fsu.edu Hometown: Tallahassee, FL My favorite thing about Tallahassee: I love how close Tallahassee is the beaches, all its outdoor activities and parks, and the locally-owned restaurants. What I enjoy the most about FSU: I love that FSU's faculty and staff members are always friendly and willing to help students succeed in every way possible. FSU also has a beautiful campus and strong school spirit. My advice for future Seminoles: Be open to new things and experience a little bit of it all. Get to know a wide range of people, whether it be faculty, staff, and students. Close × Katherine Gipalo she/her kgipalo@fsu.edu Hometown: Jacksonville, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.S. (Economics) & B.S. (Political Science) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: The balance it strikes between being a small community and a large city. There is more to Tallahassee than just FSU, including a wide array of local businesses and restaurants, numerous outdoor pursuits, and a thriving community culture. It strikes the perfect balance between having plenty to do, yet not being so large that it is overwhelming. What I enjoy the most about FSU: : The resources and opportunities we have available for students. From the ACE Learning Center, to Case Management Services, to the Undergraduate Research Program (UROP), to the Graduation Planning and Strategies (GPS) office, Florida State has a multitude of departments in place to support students academically and personally. You are never on your own when it comes to solving a problem at FSU; there is always someone willing to help. My advice for future Seminoles: Make the absolute most of your time at Florida State, both inside and outside the classroom. We have dozens of undergraduate majors and minors, and programs like double majoring, dual degree, Degree in Three, and More in Four can allow you to expand your knowledge and broaden your horizons. When it comes to extracurriculars, there is something for everyone here; go to the Involvement Fair at the beginning of Spring or Fall to meet different student organizations and groups and find your fit! Close × Sarah Sikes she/her ssikes@fsu.edu Hometown: Orlando, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.S. (Interdisciplinary Social Sciences) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: Tallahassee has a growing food scene. There are so many locally-owned options across a variety of different cuisines, and I love being able to explore the diversity of our community through food. What I enjoy the most about FSU: The physical campus is beautiful. The grand building architecture, tree-canopied walkways, and open green spaces still feel magical even after almost a decade in Tallahassee. My advice for future Seminoles: Build a relationship with your academic advisor early on and check in with them regularly. Staying on track while trying to navigate program milestones and course schedules can be challenging if you're trying to do it without help, but the advising staff are here to help you succeed. Close × Allison Helms she/her ahelms@fsu.edu Hometown: Tallahassee, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.A. (English) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: The strong sense of community. The people in Tallahassee are friendly and welcoming, so it does not take long to build relationships and feel at home. There are also several beautiful parks in and around Tallahassee that are fun to visit. What I enjoy the most about FSU: The beauty of the campus and the many great events that are available to students and the Tallahassee community. My advice for future Seminoles: Take advantage of the opportunities that the University provides to help you be successful, and do not hesitate to ask questions. Close × Lori C. Hamilton she/her lhamilton@fsu.edu Hometown: Tallahassee, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.S. (Sociology) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: The beautiful outdoors of Tallahassee and our surrounding areas: our rivers, lakes, and nearby coast. The funky/cool locally owned restaurants. The friendliness of the citizens! What I enjoy the most about FSU: You can feel the pride that people at Florida State feel for our university. You feel this spirit once you become part of the Seminole family. My advice for future Seminoles: Go to class! Get involved in at least one club or activity. Make new friends from different backgrounds! Utilize the valuable services available to you, especially Transfer Student Services. Close × Julie Rubin she/her julie.rubin@fsu.edu Hometown: Alfred, NY Degrees: Alfred University, BFA (Graphic Design & Printmaking); M. ED. (Higher Education Administration) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: Tallahassee is truly a college town, which reminds me of a larger version of home. The beautiful weather here allows me to be outside all year. What I enjoy the most about FSU: Our campus community is welcoming, eager to help each other, and full of school spirit. It has that small school feel even though we are a large public institution. My advice for future Seminoles: Attending college is a time to discover yourself. Getting involved inside and outside of the classroom will help you realize things you like and even things you don't like. Your college experiences will help shape you and allow you to transition into your future career. My work study job in Admissions lead me down a career path I wasn't expecting, and that experience helped me find my passion in Higher Education. Close × she/her erin.verity@fsu.edu Hometown: Fayetteville, NC Degrees: Florida State University, B.S. (Communication/Sport Management); M.S. (Sport Management) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: I love the outdoor opportunities in Tallahassee! There are plenty of local parks, beautiful trees, and quick access to great beaches, kayaking, and hiking. My two favorite places in town are the JR Alford Greenway and Cascades Park. What I enjoy the most about FSU: FSU is a real community that is committed to providing a vast, diverse range of opportunities to the students here. The staff here genuinely care about the university and that is reflected in the friendliness and relationships you can build across campus. My advice for future Seminoles: Explore Tallahassee and North Florida beyond the campus perimeters and you'll find a vibrant community that enriches your college experience. Take the time to meet your professors and staff on campus because opportunities for mentorship are priceless! Close × Christina Smith she/her christina.smith@fsu.edu Hometown: Tallahassee, FL Degrees: Tallahassee Community College, AA Degree My favorite thing about Tallahassee: I love that the community has the heart and feel of a small town. What I enjoy the most about FSU: Campus is absolutely beautiful! I love being able to take a walk and take it all in. My advice for future Seminoles: College is such a fraction of your life, take the opportunity to challenge yourself. Make new friends, look for new experiences, and get involved. Close × Anthony Russo she/her amrusso@fsu.edu Hometown: Tallahassee, FL Degrees: Florida State University, B.S. (Hospitality Management) My favorite thing about Tallahassee: All the outdoor activities in Tallahassee and the surrounding area. There are plenty of connected greenways and trails to explore in Tallahassee. If you're looking for some variety, you can drive down to the coast for a beach getaway or some fun on the water. What I enjoy the most about FSU: FSU has a beautiful campus which also feels very close-knit. The FSU Reservation, also known as the Rez, is just a few miles down the road and offers great team building and outdoor activities. My advice for future Seminoles: There are many wonderful museums and venues just outside of campus. Explore the entire FSU campus and the city of Tallahassee to learn about all the amazing opportunities this area has to offer. Close