Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Athletics Frequently asked questions about athletics Breadcrumb Home Frequently Asked Questions Are athletes given preference in the admission process and who will decide on my application? According to rules set by the Ivy League, the principles that govern admission of prospective student-athletes to Brown are the same as for all other applicants. Brown admits all candidates on the basis of academic achievements as well as personal strengths and accomplishments. Our athletic coaches will let us know which prospective student-athletes would be welcome additions to their teams, but admission decisions are made by the Admission Office. Ivy League coaches are knowledgeable about admissions policies, can be valuable resources in guiding prospective student-athletes through the application process, and may offer advice and counsel based on feedback from the Admission Office. Coaches may make a commitment to support a prospective student-athlete’s application. However only the Admission Office at each Ivy League school has the authority to admit an applicant and to notify an applicant of admission. Only formal correspondence from the Admission Office should be considered an admission decision. Ivy League schools provide financial aid to students, including athletes, only on the basis of financial need as determined by each institution’s Financial Aid Office. There are no academic or athletic scholarships in the Ivy League. A coach may assist a prospective student-athlete to obtain an estimated financial aid award, however only the Financial Aid Office has the authority to determine financial aid awards and to notify students officially of their actual or estimated awards. Do you offer athletic scholarships? As a member of the Ivy League, Brown does not award academic or athletic scholarships. All financial aid awarded by Brown is need-based meaning that no factors are considered except the family’s demonstrated financial need. We are committed to meeting 100% of demonstrated financial need for undergraduates. How do I express my interest in competing at the varsity level? Please review the instructions under the “Recruiting” section of the Brown University Athletics website. Are there athletic opportunities for non-varsity athletes? Absolutely. We offer extensive recreational athletic opportunities for students including state-of-the-art athletic facilities, intramural sports, club sports, fitness programs, aquatics programs, personal training and more. To learn more, visit the “Recreation" tab on the Brown Bears website. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Athletics Open details for Athletics Bookmark this Page