Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Welcome Center Admissions Welcome Center The new Admissions Welcome Center serves as the front door to the university for prospective students and their families. Located on the ground floor of the Perry-Castañeda Library in the heart of campus, this 9,000 square foot space showcases the impact of a University of Texas at Austin educational experience and offers students a window into campus life. Our live virtual sessions and tours and our Look Around Virtual Tour are currently available to all interested guests. For more information, call 512-475-7399 or email welcomecenter@austin.utexas.edu. At the Welcome Center Your Longhorn journey starts the second you enter. Check out a vibrant mural by Austin artist Judy Paul. See the Vo Family Auditorium, established by global businessman and proud Texas Ex Andrew Phong Vo, who founded the Texas Iron Spikes. Explore the university’s history, long-standing Longhorn traditions and what makes each of our colleges and schools unique through the plaques, timelines and memorabilia displays. Whether you’re going on a campus tour, turning in a document for your application or visiting for an appointment with an admission counselor, your experience of the Forty Acres starts here. Location The Admissions Welcome Center is located at 101 E. 21st St., Austin, Texas. We are located in the Perry-Castañeda Library with our entrance facing Speedway (the yellow brick road). Parking Parking is available at the Brazos Parking Garage (BRG), located at 210 E. Martin Luther King Blvd. Austin, TX 78712. Contact Us We are available by phone or email for questions! Email us at welcomecenter@austin.utexas.edu or call 512-475-7399. Take the Next Step Quick Links Apply Now Contact Us Virtual Info Sessions Protect Texas Visit Guidelines admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022