Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Paulita Lara Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Paulita Lara ’18 Bloomington, Indiana Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Paulita Lara remembers asking herself at International Orientation, “Am I really that international?” After meeting her classmates from around the world, she was surprised to hear that many students had lived in several locations. Even beyond the international cohort at Princeton, Lara was in awe of how her peers viewed the world as wholly accessible. Born in Ecuador, Lara moved when she was two years old to Bloomington, Indiana, where her father works in academia. She returned to Ecuador each summer, but Ecuador and Indiana are the only two places she’s ever called home. “I have Ecuadorian values as a result of my upbringing, but American society has shaped my ideals and goals,” she says. She studies at Princeton under a student visa. Her unique perspective as an international student rooted in American culture has made her an asset to the Davis International Center, where she now serves as an orientation leader. She says she has helped educate her international friends about academic and social life in the United States. “It’s a big shock to many people. I can help international students assimilate to Princeton culture because I understand how they’re feeling.” The conversation about cultural context begins on campus. Lara participates in “Tea and Talk,” an informal weekly discussion for international students at the Carl A. Fields Center for Equality and Cultural Understanding. “We discuss race and culture in the classroom, but this program is strictly from the international perspective.” Lara is a premed student who is concentrating in neuroscience and intends to pursue a certificate in linguistics and global health policy. Her goal is to become a trauma surgeon. “I want to apply my medicine in communities that need better health care on an individual basis,” she says. “In small communities, you’re more than just a doctor.” She hopes to work with the nonprofit Doctors Without Borders after Princeton. However, she is not waiting until graduation to gain experience in the field. She pursued an internship with Child Family Health International in Bolivia. Sponsored by the Office of International Programs, Lara shadowed pediatricians in the capital city of La Paz and its surrounding rural communities. Although study abroad has deepened her international perspective, Lara says she always looks forward to returning to campus and sharing her experiences with her peers. “This is home now.” Related Content Student Profile Soraya Morales Nuñez ’18 Grand Junction, Colorado Learn More Full content of /campus-life/student-profiles/soraya-morales-nu%C3%B1ez Student Profile Caroline Snowden ’17 Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida Learn More Full content of /campus-life/student-profiles/caroline-snowden Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746