Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Undergraduate Admissions Admissions right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) right arrow down arrow Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow In-Person Campus Tour right arrow down arrow Visitor Guidelines Campus Parking and Walking Directions Group Visit Self-Guided Visit Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First NEXT Innovation Scholarship Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media Admissions » Information for... » International Students » Scholarships & Tuition » Other Scholarship Resources Info for... High School Students Application Information Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) SRAR FAQ Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Test-Optional FAQ Test Plan Choice Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students Application Requirements First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition Scholarships Global Scholarship Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Non-UC Scholarship Resources These are external scholarships and not controlled by the University of Cincinnati. UC is not responsible for their maintenance nor their content. These links are intended to be a helpful resource for locating additional scholarships to enable study in the United States. Please be cautious of any hidden fees that may or may not be charged. Non-UC Affiliated Scholarship Resources Name Description Deadline Award #GlobalStudentScholarship Students must record a 90 second video in English. Students must tell us their name, school, school year, how they heard about this contest and then answer questions from the website. Once recorded, participants can upload to the video sharing platform of their choice July $5,950 Arab Student Aid International Must be an Arab student on an F-1 Visa with a B average, English proficiency, intention to return to Arab world upon graduation, and financially in need. $350 Axol Science Scholarship Axol Bioscience is inviting applications for a science scholarship for graduate or undergraduate degree programs. The degree program/research area must be in a life science field with a wet-lab component (bench-based research such as molecular or cell biology). Selection is based 50% on academic achievement and 50% on the article submitted. The winner's article may be published on the Axol blog. $2,000 Buildium Build U. Scholarship Buildium Build U. Scholarship awards one $2,500 prize each semester to the Product Design, Interaction Design, UX Design, Engineering, or Computer Science student who answers our latest question about what is most important to building a great company. April, October $2,500 Dale Fridell Scholarship Open to anyone currently attending or aspiring to attend a university, college, trade school, technical institute, vocational training or other post-secondary education program in the year. The scholarship is awarded four times annually. Winners may use the money toward tuition, books, living expenses, etc. Every three months EDvestinU National Monthly Scholarship Giveaway Each month, EDvestinU awards three (3) $1,000 scholarships to randomly-selected entrants. High school seniors enrolling in an eligible postsecondary institution in the fall and current college students are encouraged to apply. $1,000 Entomological Society of America Awards Each year the Entomological Society of America, Certification Corporation, and the Entomological Foundation provide annual honors and awards to recognize scientists, educators, and students, who have distinguished themselves through their contributions to entomology. Varies ETS TOEFL Scholarship Program The TOEFL Scholarship Program is open to any student from India, Japan, mainland China, or Taiwan who starts an undergraduate or graduate degree program at a college or university listed in the TOEFL Destination Search. August $7,000 FMI Foundation Scholarship Food Marketing Institute is offering a scholarship program to students currently enrolled in food and agricultural science majors. Applicants should have true interest in the field of accredited food safety auditing. These scholarships are extremely competitive and are based primarily on academic ability. $3,000 Fulbright Foundation/ Fulbright Scholarships Must apply to and meet the requirements of the Institute of International Education $20,000 Institute of Food Technologists (IFT) Scholarships & Fellowships Feeding Tomorrow provides scholarship funding to high school seniors who demonstrate exceptional scholastic achievements, leadership experience, and a keen interest in the food science and technology profession. Varies Interior-Deluxe General Scholarship for Higher Learning This scholarship is open to students of all majors in all countries who are 16 years of age or older. All are encouraged to apply for the scholarship - including high school students, undergraduate students, master degree students, and adult learners. October $1,500 International Student Voice Magazine Margaret W. Wong Scholarship International Student Voice (ISV) Magazine is offering a scholarship for one international student studying in the United States during the academic year. July $500 John and Muriel Landis Scholarships A maximum of nine (9) scholarships are awarded to undergraduate and graduate students who have greater than average financial need. Consideration is given to conditions or experiences that render the student disadvantaged (poor high school/undergraduate preparation, due to poverty, etc.) Applicants should be planning a career in nuclear science, nuclear engineering, or a nuclear-related field and be enrolled or planning to enroll in a college or university located in the United States, but need not be U.S. citizens. February Varies King Faisal Foundation Scholarship The King Faisal Foundation provides funding opportunity of up to three years for Muslim students who are studying Medicine, Engineering, Physics, Chemistry, and Geology for study at an accredited European or North American university Margaret McNamara Memorial Fund Grants The MMMF awards education grants on a competitive basis to exceptional women from developing countries who have financial need and are committed to working to empower women and children. January $11,000 NinjaEssays Writing Contest NinjaEssays is all about supporting writers and helping them to get the motivation they need. The purpose of this essay writing contest is to inspire writers from all around the world to showcase their creative and critical thinking skills. December Varies NursesLink.org College Student Scholarship The purpose of this scholarship award is to help students to pay for the costs of education, based on merit. Can be awarded to anyone enrolling in the next six months or currently enrolled in a NON-nursing education program offered by a community college, trade school or university. April, October $500 OAS Academic Scholarship Program and OAS Special Caribbean Scholarships Program The OAS Academic Scholarship Program (Regular Program) grants scholarships every year for the pursuit of Master's Degrees, Doctoral Degrees and Graduate Research leading to a university degree. The OAS Special Caribbean Scholarships Program (SPECAF) grants scholarships for the last two years of undergraduate studies to citizens and residents of the English-speaking Caribbean OAS Member States, and Suriname. The OAS also offers interest-free loans to Latin American and Caribbean students (up to $15,000). Varies Varies Overseas Press Club Foundation Awards Students studying at American colleges and universities who aspire to become foreign correspondents are invited to apply for one of fourteen scholarships or internships to be awarded by the Overseas Press Club Foundation. $2,000 - $3,000 Phi Theta Kappa Scholarship For transfer students who are current members of the Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) International Honor Society Varies Progressive Automations Annual Scholarship Progressive Automations gives away $1,000 in scholarships to two (2) engineering students each year. Our goal is to promote education in the field of engineering and make it more accessible to young students. April $1,000 Ritchie-Jennings Memorial Scholarship Available to all currently enrolled, full-time criminal justice or accounting majors, attending an accredited four-year college or university February $1,000 - $10,000 Rotary District Grants Scholarships District grants can be used to sponsor secondary school, undergraduate, or graduate students studying any subject, either locally or abroad. In addition, the scholarship may cover any length of time from a six-week language training program to a year or more of university study. Districts may ask scholars to make presentations to local Rotary clubs and participate in Rotary service projects, but such involvement is not required by the Foundation. Varies Varies SEG Scholarships Students must intend to pursue a college curriculum directed toward a career in applied geophysics or a closely related field, such as geosciences, physics, geology, mathematics or environmental science. $500 - $14,000 Society of Women Engineers Scholarships Various awards for women pursuing baccalaureate or graduate degrees in engineering or computer science, as well as engineering and computer science students enrolled in ABET-accredited engineering program Varies $1,000 - $20,000 STEM Lights Me Up Scholarship Brightech wants you to record a 30-60 second creative video to post to your instagram and tag them. To be eligible for this scholarship students must be enrolled full or part-time at an accredited university or high school during the 2020 – 2021 school year. December 31 $500 StudySoup Global Student Scholarship To help ease the financial burden of studying in the US, StudySoup is offering a $2000 to one international student planning to attend an American school for a minimum of 10 months. December $2,000 Team Building Blogger Scholarship Griness Singapore awards SGD1000 quarterly for composing an article on your own university's blog page. Varies SGD1000 The "BG Scholarship" The "BG Scholarship" was created in memory of Brandon Goodman. The scholarship is for high school and college students. The scholarship is available to students in high school and also students currently enrolled in college. You must have a minimum 2.0 GPA, be a U.S. citizen or an international student who is enrolled in school in the USA. October $300 The Elie Wiesel Prize in Ethics Essay Contest Students must write 3,000 to 4,000 words on different ethical topics December $500- $5,000 Write-Right Essay Contest Students must write an essay of 500 to 1,000 words on one of the eight (8) topics provided. June $50-$200 Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top