Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Application Checklist for First-Year Applicants Breadcrumb Home First-Year Applicants Sub Navigation In This Section Early Decision Regular Decision Application Checklist Standardized Tests School Forms Selecting Academic Interests Supplementary Materials Video Introduction / Alumni Interview Application Checklist for First-Year Applicants Submit Your Application Early Decision application deadline - November 1 (11:59 p.m. applicant's local time). Regular Decision application deadline - January 5 (11:59 p.m. applicant's local time). Complete your application via the Common Application. Brown’s supplemental essays are submitted through the Common Application. Submit the $75 application fee or a fee waiver. If you are applying to the eight-year Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME) or the five-year Brown|Rhode Island School of Design Dual Degree Program (BRDD) you must complete the special program essays. Learn How to Apply Request School Forms Transcript. An official copy of your high school transcript must be sent by your school counselor or school official. School Report. The School Report form is available through the Common Application website and must be completed and submitted by your school counselor or school official. Midyear School Report and Transcript. Due February 24 or as soon as possible upon the completion of your first semester or second trimester of your final year of high school, the Midyear Report and Transcript can be submitted online through the Common Application by your guidance counselor or another school official. The Midyear Report includes information such as your GPA and class rank (if your school provides this information), and shares with us whether there have been any course changes or other updates since you have submitted your application. It is accompanied by a Midyear Transcript that includes your most recent available grades. If you are not given midyear grades or evaluations (e.g., home schooled students, some non-U.S. schools), please include a note explaining your circumstances under the “Additional Information” heading on the writing section of the Common Application. Counselor Recommendation. Please note that the School Report and Counselor Recommendation are separate items on the Common Application. Be sure to “invite” your school counselor to complete both items. Two Teacher Evaluations/Recommendations. Two letters of recommendation from teachers who have taught you in major academic subjects (science, social studies, mathematics, a foreign language or English) must be submitted through the Common Application or sent via email or fax. Material sent by email or fax should include the applicant's name, date of birth and high school. If sending letters by email, please send as a PDF attachment. Bachelor of Science and PLME Recommendations. If you are considering a concentration in a STEM field, or the Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME), at least one of your recommendations should come from a math or science teacher. Final School Report and Transcript. Due by June 24 for students who have chosen to matriculate at Brown, the Final School Report and Transcript should be submitted online through the Common Application by your school counselor or another school official. The Final School Report confirms your graduation date and alerts us of any course changes or other updates. The Final Transcript will include your final grades and confirm your successful completion of your secondary education. First Quarter/Trimester Grades. Early Decision applicants are required to have their counselor submit first quarter or trimester grades as soon as they are available. All applicants should have their school submit midyear or second trimester grades as soon as they are available. Early Decision Agreement. Early Decision applicants are required to complete the Early Decision Agreement form through the Common Application. This form requires the signature of the applicant, parent/guardian and school counselor. Submitting this agreement confirms your commitment to enroll at Brown if admitted Early Decision. More about School Forms Standardized Tests For first-year applicants in the 2022-2023 admission cycle, Brown has extended our test optional policy. This change is for the 2022-2023 academic year only. More updates and information can be found on our Standardized Tests webpage. Supplementary Materials If you are accomplished in music or visual art, you may include additional supplements with your application in the Common Application through SlideRoom. You do not need to wait for access to your Brown Applicant Portal to upload material to SlideRoom. When submitting through SlideRoom, you must create your SlideRoom account and begin your application on or before November 1 for Early Decision and January 5 for Regular Decision. The Early Decision material submission deadline is November 4 and the Regular Decision material submission deadline is January 10. QuestBridge applicants submitting a music and/or visual arts portfolio(s) should use the QuestBridge program(s) in SlideRoom. More about Supplementary Materials Important Dates Early Decision application deadline: November 1 (11:59 p.m. applicant's local time) Early Decision letters available online: Mid December Regular Decision application deadline: January 5 (11:59 p.m. applicant's local time) Regular Decision letters available online: March 30 Commitment deadline for Regular Decision candidates: May 1 Important Notes When Submitting Documents Applicants should submit the majority of their application using the Common Application website. All official documents, including High School Transcripts, the School and Midyear Reports, Teacher Recommendations, and the Counselor Recommendation must be submitted to the Office of College Admission by the institutions or parties that created those documents. Official documents can be submitted by email to documents@brown.edu or by fax to 401-863-9300. We cannot accept official documents that have been emailed or faxed to our office by applicants themselves. After an application has been received, the Office of College Admission will send the applicant a username and password that they can use to check the completeness of their application and upload optional supplementary material. Applicants with updates that they would like included in their applications are instructed to upload any new information directly via the Brown Applicant Portal. We are not able to accept updates via email. Due to processing time, it is likely that any document received by our office will not be entered into our application database until a week after it has been received. If you have recently submitted a document, please understand that it may take a week or more before it is listed on your application account as having been received. We will email you to let you know if any required documents are missing from your application file. Please do not submit duplicate documents unless we let you know that a required document is missing. If an item has been sent electronically, there is no need to mail a duplicate hard copy. Receiving multiple copies of the same item can slow material processing time. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Application Checklist for First-Year Applicants Open details for Application Checklist for First-Year Applicants Bookmark this Page