Menu Undergraduate Admission Home Prepare for College Visit Visit Georgia Tech Prepare for Your Visit Explore Atlanta Virtual Visits Apply First-Year Admission Transfer Admission International Applicants International First-Year Applicants International Transfer Applicants Other Programs Dual Enrollment Non-Degree Programs 62 and Older Program Counselors Contact Us Contact Us Join Mailing List Blog Check Application Status Prepare for Your Visit We look forward to meeting you! We find that visiting campus is the number one way students make decisions to apply to and attend Georgia Tech. Here is some important information to help you prepare for your visit. Directions The majority of admission events are held at the Bill Moore Student Success Center and the Ferst Center for the Arts. Directions to Bill Moore Student Success Center Directions to Ferst Center for the Arts Parking Parking is highlighted in orange on the map below. For programming in the Bill Moore Student Success Center, it is recommended to park in Visitor Lot 1. For programming in the Ferst Center for the Arts, it is recommended to park in Visitor Lot 3. For more information about visitor parking on campus, please click here. Campus Map Local Lodging Options Here are some recommended hotel and lodging options located near our campus in Midtown: The Atlanta Marriott Suites Midtown Address: 35 14th Street Northeast, Atlanta GA 30309 Distance from campus: 1 mile Reservations: 404-876-8888 Calling all Yellow Jackets! College visits take a lot of planning; let us take care of your stay. Enjoy our oversized guestroom suites, on-site dining, and superior service in the heart of Midtown one mile from The Georgia Tech Campus. Click here for the Georgia Tech rate! Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Address: 800 Spring Street NW, Atlanta, GA 30308 Distance from campus: 0.1 mile Reservations: 800-706-2899 Located on the Georgia Tech campus in Technology Square along the (free) GT Trolley Line, we are the only on-campus hotel. Enjoy being moments from great restaurants, shops (across from GT Bookstore), and attractions such as the High Museum of Art, Fox Theatre, and Georgia Aquarium. Click here for the Georgia Tech rate! Visit Website Sonesta Select Atlanta Midtown Georgia Tech Address: 1132 Techwood Drive NW, Atlanta GA 30318 Distance from campus: 0.5 miles Reservations: 404-607-1112 From Orientation to Graduation, We’ve Got You Covered. Located just steps from Georgia Tech, our hotel has all you need to experience a memorable stay. In addition to our ideal location, we offer complimentary high-speed Internet, a pool, fitness center, on-site dining, Starbucks® coffee, comfortable bedding and more. Click here for the Georgia Tech rate! Visit Website Hampton Inn – Georgia Tech Address: 244 North Avenue NW, Atlanta, GA 30303 Reservations: 404-881-0881 This recently renovated 100+ room hotel is within walking distance to Georgia Tech. Hampton Inn provides a full-buffet breakfast daily, complimentary shuttle with limited hours within a 2-mile radius, and complimentary Wi-Fi in hotel rooms and lobby. Visit Website La Quinta Inn and Suites by Wyndham Atlanta Midtown/Buckhead Address: 2535 Chantilly Drive Atlanta, GA 30324 Distance from campus: Less than 5 miles Reservations: 404-321-0999 La Quinta by Wyndham Atlanta Midtown/Buckhead is conveniently located less than 5 miles from Georgia Tech Campus, off I-85. This newly renovated hotel, offers a discount rate for Georgia Tech, complimentary breakfast, ultra-fast Wi-Fi, Free Parking, Fridge/Microwave in all rooms and is pet friendly. Near restaurants and shopping of Midtown & Buckhead. Wyndham Reward Points earned on every stay. Visit Website Disability Accommodations Below are a few of the disability accommodations we offer to campus visitors. Disability Services is also available to meet with families throughout the day.  If you are interested in speaking to someone about available accommodations, please contact Disability Services directly to request an appointment. Mobility Assistance We offer two different options for families in need of mobility assistance. The first is a wheelchair accessible tour route, which utilizes elevators wherever possible. This route highlights the same resources and facilities as our usual route and provides a comprehensive overview of campus. If you are interested in our wheelchair accessible tour route, please email our office at least 24 hours prior to your visit. Hearing Impaired If someone in your party has a hearing impairment, please notify our office a minimum of one week in advance. The admission counselor providing the information session will utilize a microphone to ensure that you are able to clearly hear the presentation and your tour guide will also be equipped with a microphone. We are unable to offer interpreters, but can provide you with a printed copy of the presentation. Guide Dogs Guide dogs are welcome on campus and within all buildings. If you will be bringing a guide dog, please let us know a minimum of 24 hours in advance, so that we can inform your tour guide. If you have additional questions, please contact our office. We look forward to having you visit campus! Campus Visit Bingo Keep the fun going at your campus visit! Our bingo game will keep you listening for important information and asking good questions. Download Bingo Sheet Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology This website uses cookies. For more information, review our Privacy & Legal Notice. Questions? Please email privacy@gatech.edu. OK