Skip to navigation Skip to main content Skip to footer Undergraduate Admission Desktop Header Navigation Applicant Login Request Information Main navigation Apply Freshmen Transfers International Supplemental Applications Majors Minors Transferring Credits Explore Academics Campus Life Clubs & Organizations Housing & Dining Los Angeles & Westwood Internships & Experiential Learning Study Abroad Research Student Outcomes Visit Campus Tours Events Maps & Parking Tuition & Aid Tuition & Fees Financial Aid & Scholarships Net Cost Calculator Admitted Students Freshman New Student Checklist Transfer New Student Checklist Contact Search Search Breadcrumb Home Explore Research What can you investigate at the world’s leading research university? Everything. Here, we’re always making discoveries, finding solutions and improving the status quo. And we’ve had a huge impact in just 100 years. You can be part of that. Initiate your own research project or work with a team. Learn alongside experts in their field. And help make the world better. 6,000 active research projects on campus $1 billion in research funding received by UCLA each year Research Areas Turn Your Passions Into Pursuits By focusing on projects in your areas of interest, research can help clarify your career goals, hone your skills and increase your chances for success after college. Plus, it’s an excellent way to get to know a faculty member you respect. Learn More About Undergraduate Research Hear students talk about the types of research they engage in and see how research plays an important role in all disciplines. 40% of undergraduate students work on faculty research #9 World Reputation Rankings for Research Times Higher Education (2019) Where Does It All Begin? With a Question. Public universities tackle the big questions of our time. Our amazing faculty and undergraduate and graduate students work together on cutting-edge projects that have far-reaching impact. Together, we can change the world for the better. Here’s how you can get started: Identify a Question Think about issues and questions that matter to you. Get ideas from academic journals, coursework, faculty profiles and from your life and experiences. Apply for a Faculty-Initiated Project Find projects on the Undergraduate Research Portal and by talking to professors and teaching assistants. Explain why their research interests you and how you relate to their work. Find a Mentor Seek out a faculty mentor in your area of interest. You could ask a professor you know from class or look through faculty bios on departmental websites. Do Your Own Project Through Honors and Capstone programs, you can design your own research-based experience that helps advance your academic, personal and professional goals. Testimonials I get to participate in research through Ronald Reagan Hospital and the David Geffen School of Medicine while getting clinical experience by observing procedures and shadowing physicians. — Omar Habib, psychobiology major Discover Great Resources for Research The following resources help you identify research projects that can add depth to your learning experience and challenge you to think in new ways. Undergraduate Research Center Connect with research opportunities, scholarships, grants, workshops and more by reaching out to the center for humanities, arts and social sciences or for the sciences. Student Research Course Enroll in SRP-99, an independent research course for undergrads, to receive credit for engaging in entry-level research that’s supervised by a faculty mentor. The course is particularly suited for lower-division and first-quarter transfer students. See What We’re Working On The ELFIN, which studies space weather, is the first satellite mission designed, built, tested and operated at UCLA, primarily by undergraduates. Students who work in the lab of Professor Tracy Johnson, recipient of the National Science Foundation Career Award, study how cells regulate gene expression. Using the Undergraduate Research Portal, students can find amazing research opportunities that match their academic pursuits and interests both on and off campus. At the Broad Stem Cell Research Center, students participate in research projects on topics that include reproduction and infertility, cardiovascular stem cells and diabetes/metabolic disorders. Testimonials I had a great experience, and I would recommend research to anyone looking to expand their education beyond the four walls of a classroom or the pages of a book. — Bernice Andrade, sociology and Chicana/o studies double major with a minor in education Read about Bernice’s experience doing research External Link Next up Student Outcomes Important Information Apply Tuition & Aid Campus Tours Admission Events Learn more about UCLA Hear more about events in your area, application deadlines and more. Request Information 1147 Murphy Hall, Box 951436 Los Angeles, CA 90095-1436 Icon/Social/facebook-white Icon/Social/twitter-white Icon/Social/instagram-white Footer Menu Column One Maps & Parking Campus Tours Admission Events Virtual Tour Column Two Contact Us Download Resources Mobile Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube TikTok ©2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Privacy & Terms of Use Desktop Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube TikTok