Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Athletics & Recreation Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources From the laid-back sports fan to the aspiring Olympic athlete, Dartmouth offers plenty of opportunities for sportspeople of any interest level and ability. With state-of-the-art facilities and the stunning outdoor venues of the Upper Valley, there's never a lack of new activities to explore. It's no wonder that 75% of the student body is involved in sports. With everything from fly-casting practice on the Green to downhill racing at the Skiway, here's the breakdown: Varsity Sports With 35 Division I varsity teams, the Dartmouth Big Green are known worldwide as a member of the prestigious Ivy League, where our athletes compete against a collection of the nation's oldest schools. The most demanding tier of Dartmouth athletics, our alumni include an immense number of Olympic athletes and numerous professional players across a range of sports. With free admission for all students to regular-season games, there's never a lack of cheering fans to pack the stands. Video of SKI F1 Club Sports Dartmouth's 33 club sports teams vary from nationally competitive to casual and recreational. From Water Polo to Tae Kwon Do, these student-run squads compete against other colleges across the region. Some clubs hold tryouts whereas others are open for sign-ups, all which depends on the competitiveness of the organization. Much less of a commitment than a varsity sport but far more than intramurals, club teams often have practices sporadically throughout the week and usually play games on weekends. Intramural Sports The most casual and beginner-friendly tier of Dartmouth's athletic hierarchy, intramural sports are a fun way to get active without making too much of a time commitment. Students organize teams and compete against each other in a multitude of sports, all of which have different skill-based brackets to make sure that the matches stay competitive. Also a fun and cheap way to try something new, Dartmouth's IM scene is super inclusive and is available to anybody who can gather up a couple friends. Physical Education Physical Education courses offer students countless opportunities to get active for credit. From dance to martial arts and from yoga to skiing, Physical Education experiences are lead by undergraduate students and faculty alike on activities they're passionate about. Some are even Dartmouth Outing Club-sponsored programs, which involve weekend excursions to explore New Hampshire's scenic countryside. Unlike other courses, PE classes don't meet in normal blocks. Rather, they get together at different times during the week, usually with very lenient schedules. A great way to give something new a try, students need three PE credits to graduate, and with a wide range of activities to explore, there's truly something for everyone! Athletic Facilities Dartmouth boasts a wide array of beautiful facilities surrounding athletics and recreation. With over $94 million invested into our state-of-the-art venues in recent years, students are provided with the best resources possible to reach the top of their game. Some of these include: The Zimmerman Fitness Center, with over 16,000 square feet of new workout equipment for student use The Hanover Country Club, campus' very own golf course Thompson Arena, the skating rink home to Dartmouth's on-ice sports The Boss Tennis Center and Gordon Pavilion The JDB Rock Climbing Gym The Karl Michael and Spaulding Pools The Friends of Dartmouth Rowing Boathouse And much more! Outdoor Programs Office The Outdoor Programs Office (OPO) helps create opportunities for members of the Dartmouth community to explore and enjoy the amazing natural landscape of New England throughout their time at Dartmouth and beyond. Within OPO, The Dartmouth Outing Club is the oldest and largest collegiate outing club in the country. Anyone—member or not—may stay at their cabins, go on trips, rent gear, and take classes, and funding and grants are available. The Upper Valley Dartmouth is defined by more than just buildings; seated in the picturesque Upper Valley, we like to use the terrain to our advantage. With the Connecticut River nudging up along the western edge of campus, there's always an open spot to row, kayak, canoe, or even go for a swim. Also, just twenty minutes from campus lies the Dartmouth Skiway, two mountains complete with a lodge and shuttle that runs to campus during the winter months. Big Green News Feed All News Stories Six Club Sports Teams Headed to Nationals Stacey '16 Wins Gold as Canada Gets Revenge in Hockey Dartmouth First in the Nation in Student-Athlete Graduation Success Rate This is the sixth time Dartmouth has finished on top in the 10 years the Ivy League schools have been included. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog Winter Walk On! When I came to college, I was excited for everything about the school but found myself missing being on a sports team, like I was in high school. Read on to hear about sports/teams at Dartmouth! Read More Emily Hemelt 2025 Covering Football Pro Day This week, I wrote a story about the football Pro Day for the student newspaper, The Dartmouth. Read More Caroline York 2025 Triathlon Training: An Amazing Spring Break! What better way to spend Spring Break than training with the Triathlon team in Florida? Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 Are You Ready for a Winter Rumble? For winter sports at Dartmouth, skill levels range from beginner to master. But no matter where you're starting, intramural hockey is always a good time! And watching the games played by Dartmouth's pros is also a blast! Read More Emily Hemelt 2025 Tennis Balls and a Squid? This past weekend, students from all across campus came together at Thompson arena to celebrate another one of Dartmouth's most widely loved traditions: The Dartmouth-Princeton rivalry ice hockey game. Read More Natalie Keim 2025 Skiing the East I've recently started "Skiing the East!" Read More Caroline York 2025 Ice Hockey with my Fraternity Brothers! I was not expecting to play hockey when I was in college. However, this term I had a chance to play in the intermural hockey league! Read More Tulio Huggins 2023 Campus Visit Trips The top 6 things to do while touring Dartmouth Read More Caroline York 2025 Life as a D1 Athlete Almost a quarter of all Dartmouth students participate in Division I sports. Because of this, I decided to interview my roommate (and one of my favorite people on this campus) on how life looked like as a D1 Athlete on Dartmouth's Swim Team! Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback