Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour COVID-19 Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour COVID-19 Admissions FAQs 2022 applicants and beyond | Financial aid, tuition and fees | Advising & Orientation | Freshmen autumn 2021 admits | Transfer autumn 2021 applicants Applicants for 2022 and beyond VIDEO: Changes to application process Watch a panel discussion about the holistic review process. Does the UW still require the SAT or ACT for applicants? No, the UW has permanently removed the SAT/ACT test score requirement for admission. Will not submitting an SAT or ACT disadvantage me as an applicant? Not submitting an SAT or ACT will not harm any applicant in the review process. How will schedule changes impact my admissibility to the UW? At the UW we use a holistic review process which allows our readers to take context into consideration when reviewing applications. Rest assured that unanticipated schedule changes due to COVID-19 will be taken into consideration. If you’re able to, tell us about the impacts in your application. How will Pass/No Pass, Credit/No Credit or A/Incomplete grading affect my admissibility to the UW? If a school changes the grading scale to Pass/No Pass, Credit/No Credit or A/Incomplete, this will not impact a student’s admissibility to the University of Washington. The holistic review will be able to accommodate all of the various grading policies that school districts implement in a way that neither advantages nor disadvantages any applicant. Educators, if your school is able, we recommend designating the change on the transcript so the Office of Admissions is aware when reviewing final transcripts. Does the UW convert a "Pass" to a B grade (3.0)? The UW does not change a “Pass” to a B grade (3.0) and a “Pass” does not impact the cumulative GPA in our holistic review. Are international applicants still required to submit a TOEFL or IELTS score? International students are required to submit English proficiency exam scores that meet the UW’s admission requirement. In recognition of the COVID-19 pandemic’s global impacts, the UW will also accept the Duolingo English Test for any summer/autumn 2022 applicant. Are campus visits, tours and information sessions being offered? Campus tours and admission information sessions are back! See the schedule and sign up online. Back to top Financial aid, tuition and fees My family income has changed. What options exist to update my financial aid award package? We understand that your family’s financial situation may have changed as a result of COVID-19. Students can request changes to their award by completing a “change in financial situation – parent,” or “change in financial situation – student” form using the revision request website. Will tuition rates or fee-based program rates change if my class is taught remotely? At the UW our world-class instructors bring expertise, experience and knowledge to remote learning just as they do with in-person teaching. Whether class instruction is in-person or online, your UW educators remain the same. It’s also important to remember that this is not an online degree program so while it’s safe for the UW community to come together in person, we’ll continue to do so. I am not a resident of the state of Washington. Why am I required to pay out-of-state tuition for remote learning or in-person instruction? Out-of-state tuition is not a reflection of whether a course is offered in-person or remotely. Resident tuition is lower than non-resident tuition because of the taxes paid by resident students and their families to the state of Washington. These taxes support the UW through state funding. My financial situation has changed due to COVID-19 and I am now interested in deferring my admission offer. The economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic are far reaching and impacting us all. Students can request changes to their financial aid award by completing a “Change in financial situation – parent,” or “Change in financial situation – student” form using the revision request website. If after exploring your options, you make the choice to not enroll at the UW, we would encourage you to contact our office so we can walk you through applying for a future term, developing a transfer plan and more. The UW is not deferring admission to another entry term due to a change in finances. If you do not wish to attend the UW for autumn quarter, but wish to enroll for a future quarter, you would need to reapply for that term. Advising & Orientation Will summer Advising & Orientation sessions be offered in-person or remotely? Summer Advising & Orientation will be facilitated in a remote environment. For more information visit the First Year Programs website. Back to top Freshmen autumn 2021 admits Will the UW require COVID-19 vaccines to enroll? The University will require students to be vaccinated against COVID-19 and expects everyone else in the UW community who can get vaccinated to do so. The vaccines being administered are safe and effective, and you can be vaccinated at any provider at no cost to you. Will the UW accept enrollment confirmations after the May 1 deadline for freshmen to accept their offer? The deadline to accept the offer of admission is May 1 (unless otherwise indicated in your offer materials). As always, we will review individual requests to pay the New Student Enrollment & Orientation Fee (NSEOF) after May 1 and we’ll be as flexible as possible as long as space remains available. Contact the Office of Admissions to discuss your situation. Will the UW return to in-person instruction and activities for winter quarter 2022? Classes will begin as scheduled on Jan. 3 in a remote environment. Check your email for updates. Can I defer my offer of admission? You may not defer your admission to another entry term. The offer of admission is valid only for the quarter you applied. If you do not wish to attend the UW at this time but wish to enroll for a future quarter, you will need to reapply. If you believe you have extenuating circumstances, please contact the Office of Admissions. I’m an international student. Can I defer my admission if I can’t get an F1 visa or travel restrictions prevent me from entering the U.S. to begin classes in September? The offer of admission is valid only for the quarter you applied. Most U.S. embassies and consulates have re-opened some services, including F1 visa processing. Although additional closures or restrictions could occur due to the pandemic, you should be able to get an F1 visa before classes begin September 29. International students should still confirm enrollment by May 1, request an I-20 for the F1 visa, sign up for Advising & Orientation, arrange housing and register for classes. If you are prevented from beginning autumn quarter classes due to travel or visa restrictions and the UW is not offering remote courses, you may contact the Office of Admissions after September 1 to request a deferral to winter quarter, which begins January 3, 2022. I’ve decided to attend my local community college/university this quarter, delaying my start date at the UW. What do I need to know? Freshman applicants who plan to enroll at another college or university following their high school graduation will need to re-apply as a transfer applicant for the term they wish to begin at the UW. To learn more about transferring to the UW, including how credits are transferred, please visit our transfer admission website and consider attending one of our transfer webinars. Additional resources for transfer planning: Planning resources Washington community college transfer equivalency guide Find your transfer admission counselor Will the UW extend the July 15 transcript deadline? If your school is able to send your final transcript before July 15, please have them do so. If your school is unable to meet the July 15 deadline, please have them sent as soon as possible after. Not meeting the deadline will not impact your ability to register for autumn courses, but may impact your ability to register for future terms. How will Pass/No Pass or Credit/No Credit grading affect my offer of admission to the UW? If a school changes the grading scale to Pass/No Pass or Credit/No Credit this will not impact a student’s admission to the University of Washington. Educators, if your school is able, please designate the change on the transcript so the Office of Admissions is aware when reviewing final transcripts. Does the UW convert a “Pass” to a B grade (3.0) or lower? The UW does not convert a “Pass” or calculate it in the cumulative GPA. My senior-year schedule has changed. Will this affect my admission to the UW? Schedule changes due to COVID-19 will not affect a student’s admission to the UW. My senior-year schedule has changed and I am no longer able to complete all my College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADR). Will this affect my admission to the UW or direct admission to my major? Schedule changes due to COVID-19 will not affect a student’s admission to the UW or any offers of direct admission to the college or major. If any additional information is needed after the final transcript is received, the Office of Admissions will reach out to the student directly. College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADR) The College Board announced changes to the AP testing format. Will this affect how the UW will award credit for AP exams? We recognize all the work that goes into taking an AP course and/or studying for the exam. Rest assured that a change in testing format does not change how the UW awards credit for AP exams. For an overview of credit awarded by subject, visit the AP exams for credit website. I'm an IB diploma candidate and the IB announced exams will be canceled this year. Will I still be eligible for UW credit? We recognize all the work that goes into taking an IB course and pursuing an IB diploma. Although exams have been canceled, IBO has indicated diplomas and certificates will still be awarded. The UW will award credit for IB diplomas or certificates, regardless of the assessment method. For an overview of credit awarded by subject, visit the IB exams for credit website. A-level exams have been canceled this year. Will I be eligible for UW credit? Although many exams have been canceled, exam boards have indicated that they will still award certificates using other assessment methods. The UW will award credit for final A-level exam certificates, regardless of how the grades/marks are assessed. For an overview of credit awarded by subject, visit the A-level exams for credit website. Are campus visits, tours and information sessions being offered? Yes! In-person campus tours and admissions presentations are back. In addition to scheduling an in-person campus tour, we invite you to take a virtual 3-D tour , explore videos of campus and watch an on demand information session. The admissions visit website is up to date with the latest scheduling information. Back to top COVID-19 Resources UW main coronavirus page Winter quarter 2022 University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA