Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Admitted Students You are here Home Apply Admitted Students About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Have you received an offer of admission to Temple University? Congratulations! We’re so excited for you, and we’re here to help you take the next steps toward choosing Temple. You’ll find the information you need to secure your place at Temple, including accepting your offer of admission and submitting your non-refundable enrollment deposit. Make sure to read through your next steps as a first-year, transfer or international student. https://tuportal.temple.edu/ Choose Temple Accepting your offer of admission is the first step to officially joining the Temple community. Log in to your TUportal account to accept your offer of admission and submit your deposit. Log in to your TUportal account to accept your offer of admission and make your enrollment deposit Contents First-year Students International Students Transfer Students Request to Defer TUportal is an essential part of the enrollment process. Make sure you activate your account now if you haven’t already. Learn about joining TUportal, including what to do if you lose your activation email. Join TUportal /apply/next-steps-admitted-students/experience-temple-day Experience Temple Explore what it’s like to live, learn and grow at Temple. We have two options for admitted students: Experience Temple Day, hosted on Main Campus in Philadelphia, and our Experience Temple website. Visit the Experience Temple Day webpage Next Steps for Admitted First-year Students If you’re an admitted first-year student, follow these steps to secure your spot and officially become a Temple Owl. Studying at Ambler Campus? The following steps apply to you, except for the on-campus housing. There are several off-campus housing options near Ambler Campus. Contact Ambler’s Office of Student Life at 267-468-8425 for more information. Register for Experience Temple Day. Experience Temple Day is the university’s invitation for you to learn even more about what it’s like to be an Owl. Hosted on Main Campus in Philadelphia for students admitted for the fall semester, you’ll explore our academic programs, financial aid opportunities and more. Register by logging in to TUportal. Make your financial plan for college. If you are a U.S. citizen or eligible nonresident, make sure you submit your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by Temple’s priority deadline, Feb. 1. Any financial aid awarded to you will be posted in TUportal. Learn more about your financial aid and scholarship opportunities as a first-year student. Submit your non-refundable enrollment deposit of $200 by May 1. Accept your spot at Temple by submitting your non-refundable enrollment deposit of $200 through your TUportal account on the Next Steps channel (You’ll need your AccessNet login and password.) When you submit your deposit, you also secure your financial aid package, including scholarships. By submitting a deposit to Temple, you are committing to attending Temple. You should not be holding a space at more than one college or university. Doing so is unfair to those who are seeking to secure their place at Temple and in our residence halls. If you decide to attend another college or university, please contact us to withdraw your intent to enroll at Temple. Submit your housing deposit of $250. If you’re interested in living on campus, you can submit your housing deposit at the same time you submit your enrollment deposit on TUportal, which is recommended. When you submit both deposits together, you’ll have access to the Housing Selection Process sooner. Request on-campus housing. On-campus housing is guaranteed if you commit to Temple by May 1. Once you submit your enrollment and housing deposits, you can select your own housing and meal plan through our online selection process, which is available in MyHousing via TUportal. Housing selection will start on April 1, but you can explore residence hall options at any time. Sign up for Fly in 4. Fly in 4 is a program that will keep you on track academically to ensure you graduate in four years. It’s free to participate and can help you avoid the extra debt that comes with an extra year of school. Learn more about Fly in 4. Complete New Student Orientation. This is when you’ll register for classes and get to know other incoming first-year students. Sessions are offered throughout the summer. You can register for Orientation through TUportal. Send your final high school transcripts. We do consider final grades. Ask your high school to send us your final transcript. Temple Rome Entry Year Program If you’ve been accepted into the Temple Rome Entry Year Program, you will receive instructions for what you will need to do to access your Rome Portal and secure your visa if you are not a European Union citizen. Also, there will be additional information about Orientation and your housing options in Rome. Be sure to check your Temple email often to stay updated on important dates and deadlines. Check the Next Steps channel on your TUportal. Return to top Next Steps for International Students If you’re an admitted international student, read through the following steps to learn more about how to secure your spot at Temple, including important payments and forms. Register for Experience Temple Day. Experience Temple Day is the university’s invitation for you to learn even more about what it’s like to be an Owl. Hosted on Main Campus in Philadelphia for students admitted for the fall semester, you’ll explore our academic programs, financial aid opportunities and more. Register by logging in to TUportal. Submit your non-refundable enrollment deposit of $200 by May 1. Accept your spot at Temple by submitting your non-refundable enrollment deposit of $200 through your TUportal account on the Next Steps channel (You’ll need your AccessNet login and password.) When you submit your deposit, you also secure your financial aid package, including scholarships. Submit your housing deposit of $250. If you’re interested in living on campus, you can submit your housing deposit at the same time you submit your enrollment deposit on TUportal, which is recommended. When you submit both deposits together, you’ll have access to the Housing Selection Process sooner. Visit the campus. If you are able to visit Philadelphia, contact us to arrange a tour. We would love to show you around campus. Come to one of our Weekday Information Sessions or email us at tuadmint@temple.edu to schedule a visit. Unable to see campus in person? We also offer a virtual tour so you can explore campus from wherever you are. Review your I-20 and pay the SEVIS fee, if needed. If you require an I-20 to study at Temple University, complete your Certificate of Eligibility Application Form (requires log in) and send in the supporting documents as soon as possible. Visit International Student and Scholar Services for more information about this process. The I-20 will be mailed to you once you have paid your deposit and submitted the required documents. When you receive it, please pay your SEVIS (Student and Exchange Visitor Information System) fee online. Transfer students should make arrangements for their current I-20 to be released to Temple University after submitting the Certificate of Eligibility Application. Contact a U.S. embassy or consulate to apply for your student visa, if you need one. Follow instructions at the U.S. embassy in your country. Complete New Student Orientation. This is when you’ll register for classes and get to know other incoming first-year students. Sessions are offered throughout the summer. You can register for Orientation through TUportal. Submit proof of secondary school graduation. After you are admitted and pay your enrollment deposit, please arrange for your secondary school transcript or other proof of graduation to be sent from your school or examining body. If you are not sure what satisfies proof of graduation, please contact the International Admissions Office. COVID-19 Update Due to the recent announcements about exam cancellations and the modified assessment and calculation of results for multiple international qualifications (e.g., IBO, A levels, French Bac and AP) because of the impact of COVID-19, Temple will continue to accept these results and the adjusted methods of assessment as determined by the examining body/ministry of education without any negative impact on offers of admission or scholarship. For those of you who were anticipating advanced credit due to completion of IB, A Level, AP or CLEP courses/subjects, our awarding policy will not change and we will recognize successful completion as determined by the examining body. Learn more about the advanced credit policy here. Arrive on the assigned arrival dates. If you have registered for New Student Orientation, you should arrive on the assigned dates. If you are unable to attend the New Student Orientation, email intl@temple.edu for more information about Temple’s late arrival procedures. NOTE: The U.S. government does not allow international students to enter the country earlier than 30 days before the program start date indicated on your I-20. Return to top Next Steps for Transfer Students If you’re an admitted transfer student, commit to Temple by following the steps below. Register for Experience Temple Day and explore the Experience Temple website. Experience Temple Day is the university’s invitation for you to learn even more about what it’s like to be an Owl. Hosted on Main Campus in Philadelphia for students admitted for the fall semester, you’ll explore our academic programs, financial aid opportunities and more. And, our Experience Temple website allows you to learn more about the university from anywhere. Register for Experience Temple Day and access the Experience Temple site by logging in to TUportal. Make your financial plan for Temple. If you are a U.S. citizen or eligible nonresident, make sure you submit your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by Temple’s priority deadline, Feb. 1. Any financial aid awarded to you will be posted in TUportal. Learn more about financial aid and scholarship opportunities for transfer students. Submit your non-refundable enrollment deposit of $200. Accept your spot at Temple by submitting your non-refundable enrollment deposit of $200 through your TUportal account on the Next Steps channel (You’ll need your AccessNet login and password.) When you submit your deposit, you also secure your financial aid package, including scholarships. Submit your housing deposit of $250 as soon as possible. If you’re interested in living in University Housing, you also need to submit a $250 refundable housing deposit. On-campus housing is limited for transfer students, so it’s best to make this deposit ASAP. Complete Transfer Student Orientation. Transfer Student Orientation is a program specially for incoming transfer students that includes academic advising, course registration, meeting other students and more. We recommend registering for Transfer Student Orientation so you learn more about Temple and our campus so your transition is as smooth as possible. Explore Transfer Student Orientation. Send your official final transcripts. Ask your current college to send us your final transcript so we can evaluate any additional coursework you may have taken. The Transfer Equivalency Tool helps current and prospective students determine how their college-level academic credits may transfer to Temple. Use these tables to find the current listing of available Temple equivalents to classes at various two-year and four-year institutions, as well as Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, CLEP and A-Level exams. Explore how to use the Transfer Equivalency Tool. Explore the Tool Return to top Request to Defer If you’re an admitted student and you’ve already made your deposit, you may be able to defer your admission for up to one year. Students may defer admission to complete religious, volunteer or military service or for unplanned medical circumstances. Admitted students will not be approved to defer their enrollment to attend another college or university or apply to another college or university while holding their space at Temple University. Students interested in deferral must complete our brief deferred enrollment request form via TUportal and provide a final high school or college transcript. /cost-aid-scholarships Cost, Aid & Scholarships Learn more about the cost of tuition at Temple—as well as financial and scholarship opportunities—to help you make your financial plan for college. Cost, Aid & Scholarships /student-life Student Life Explore Temple’s endless opportunities for new undergraduate students and what it means to be an Owl. Learn more about undergraduate student life at Temple. Start Tour Take an Interactive Tour See residence halls, learning and research facilities, and green spaces, as well as learn more about student life and our academic offerings. Start Tour Take an Interactive Tour Back to Apply Go back to ApplyMore in Admitted Students Experience Temple Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info