Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Toni Fabian Class of 2025 back Click to Close Bio Hi all! Welcome to my very public blogging page! I am Toni Fabian '25, the middle child of my family, from a small town in sunny Southern California. I plan to study economics and sociology. I am passionate about culture, educational equity, and social justice. I will be writing about all things Dartmouth, from the infamous FOCO cookies to the resources and opportunities offered here on campus. I am truly so excited to bring you along with me while I navigate my college journey! Academic Program Intended majors: Economics and Sociology; Intended minor: Human-Centered Design Favorite Thing Right Now Cranberry juice Hometown San Juan Capistrano, California Pronouns he/him About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines My Dartmouth Reflection: Year 1 Completed back Click to Close Toni's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallHanover, NH Favorite Class: ECON 1: The Price System: Analysis, Problems, and Policies Each week I was responsible for completing problem sets, quizzes, classwork, and discussion boards. Every week we related what we learned in class to the real world. For example, we read about food banks and their past struggles with efficiency. As a class, we discussed solutions and delved deeper by asking questions and collaborating with each other. I loved this class a lot because Dr. Petre made learning really fun and is so kind! I learned a lot of information ranging from different elasticities of demand and supply to the indicators of poverty. This class was awesome! WinterHanover, NH Favorite Class: HIST 07.28: Gender and Urban Transformation For my FYS (First-Year Seminar), I took a history course called Gender and Urban Transformation (9L slot). Our class discussions drew from primary sources and historical analyses that dabbled on gender and its intersection with race, sexuality, and class in the development of U.S. suburbs and cities. Essentially, we explored urbanization and suburbanization as a multi-gendered process. I developed my research skills as I drafted an annotated bibliography, book review essay, and prospectus on the Chicano Movement's impact in the realm of higher education from the 1960s to the present in California, Texas, and Chicago. I learned a ton, I am so happy that I took Professor Rabig's course! « All Posts by this Blogger My Dartmouth Reflection: Year 1 Completed I am writing this blog post as I enter the final week of my first year at Dartmouth. My Dartmouth experience began when I received an email from the First-Year Student Enrichment Program (FYSEP) informing me that a spot opened up in the program two days before it began. Immediately after I received the news, I booked my flight and headed to Dartmouth with my dad. I am never going to forget my dad's smile once we arrived at the College, he couldn't stop smiling. Suddenly, I realized that my Dartmouth acceptance was a reality and that I earned my spot to be here. Growing up I didn't have much, and I had to work really hard for every opportunity that I received. I remember watching my parents sacrifice everything for my siblings and me to be healthy, safe, and happy. Now, I am the first person in my family to attend college, let alone a place like Dartmouth. After we passed through The Green, it served as an indication of the beginning of a new chapter in my life. A new chapter where I didn't know I would meet some of the kindest and warmhearted people in my life, push myself past my limits in academia, become more independent and certain of my capabilities, and become obsessed with Novack hot chocolate. I realized the privilege of going to a place like Dartmouth and took advantage of the many resources and opportunities offered on campus to grow and flourish. Altogether, I am extremely grateful for the support system that I cultivated throughout my entire first year at the College. I learned so much and took risks in my classes and life in general. I had the opportunity to take small classes and get to learn about my professors' passions and interests outside of the classroom. I won't ever forget the times I spent sitting on The Green with my friends and talking about life. This new chapter in my life has progressed and will continue as I enter my second year in the fall term. Thank you all for reading about my Dartmouth journey thus far, and I will see you all after summer. :) Click to show post info Post Information Posted 06/1/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts reflection First Year memories Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Posts You Might Like Visit the Blog A Letter to Freshman Year With freshman year coming to a close, I wrote a Thank You note to one of the best years! Read More Caroline York 2025 Goodbye, 22S Happy last week of classes! Here are some of my reflections from my junior spring. Read More Love Tsai 2023 Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Freshman Year: A Retrospective A look back at my first year at Dartmouth! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 Taking my Professor to Lunch! Here's a reflection on my experience taking my computer science professor out for a free meal paid for by the school! Read More Jack Heaphy 2024 Work Hard, Play Hard: A Green Key Weekend at Dartmouth! After two years, Dartmouth's annual spring festival, known affectionately as Green Key, occurred this weekend! The weekend held many events, but even so, I saw the Dartmouth culture of work hard, play hard. Read More Tulio Huggins 2023 Alumni Interview I sat down with my friend, Ali '20, who conducts interviews, to gain some insight into what students should expect for the interviews. Read More Caroline York 2025 Green Key!!!!!! It's a Dartmouth tradition to celebrate Green Key every spring. What exactly is Green Key you ask? In short, it is one of the best weekends ever. Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 Art Classes at Dartmouth Here are the courses my friends and I have taken to fulfill the distributive requirement for art. Read More Eda Naz Gokdemir 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback