Skip to main content Go to the U of M home page One Stop MyU Search Office of Undergraduate Education Office of Admissions COVID-19 Updates SNEAK PREVIEW: Calling all rising seniors! Explore campus and discover your path as a Golden Gopher this summer at an on-campus Sneak Preview event. Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Freshman Admission Transfer Admission International Admission Admitted Students Contact our Counselors Forms, Publications & Resources Come Work With Us! Academics Academics Overview Majors Colleges at the U of M Special Programs Research Rankings Academics and Support Learning Communities High School Course Requirements Life at Minnesota Location Opportunities Housing Study Abroad Big Ten Diversity Cost & Aid Cost, Aid, & Scholarships Scholarships Financial Aid Reciprocity Visit Visit Us Virtual Tours and Visits Apply How to Apply Application Checklist Missing Information Application Tracker Confirm Confirm Family & Counselor Info Parent & Family Resources School Counselors Breadcrumb Home Apply How to Apply How to Apply Freshman Applicant Transfer Applicant Graduate Applicant Current U of M Student Former U of M Student Freshman Applicant You are a freshman applicant if you are still a high school student. (Even if you will complete college credits while in high school.) You are also a freshman if you have already graduated from high school, but have NOT enrolled at a college, university, or any other school after high school. Please note, the Early Action and Regular Deadlines have passed, but we are still accepting applications on a space-available basis. We anticipate that some U of MN colleges will fill, so we encourage you not to wait - submit your application today! Freshman Application Transfer Applicant You are a transfer applicant if you are a high school graduate who has registered or enrolled at postsecondary institution, such as college, university, vocational college or trade school, after graduating from high school. If you are transferring from one degree program to another on the Twin Cities campus, or if you are transferring from the University of Minnesota system campuses of Crookston, Duluth, or Morris, you must complete a Change of College form. Note, transfer students must apply using the Golden Gopher application. Transfer Application Graduate Applicant You are a graduate student if you have completed your Bachelor’s degree and are looking to continue your education with the goal of achieving a post-graduate degree. Graduate School Office of Admissions Current U of M Student You are a current University of Minnesota student if you have confirmed or are enrolled in classes. If you are transferring from one degree program to another on the Twin Cities campus, or if you are transferring from the University of Minnesota system campuses of Crookston, Duluth, or Morris, you must complete a Change of College form. Former U of M Student You are a former University of Minnesota student if you are returning to a degree program at the U of M after an absence of one year or longer. If you are a former student looking to return to a degree program from an absence of one year or longer, you must complete an Application for Readmission. NOTE: If you submitted your application in the past 48 hours, your information is still being processed and your application status will not be reflected in Application Tracker for at least 2 business days. How to Apply Review what you need to apply. Freshman Application Checklist Transfer Application Checklist International Freshman Application Checklist International Transfer Application Checklist Apply Choose your application platform. Common App Golden Gopher Application Application Status Check the progress of your submitted application. Application Tracker Deadline Information Learn about application deadlines. Freshman Deadlines Transfer Deadlines International Deadlines Admissions Decision Process Learn how admissions decisions are made. Freshman Admission Decision Overview FAQ about Freshman Admissions Decisions Transfer Admissions Decision Overview Note about Civic Engagement The University of Minnesota welcomes free speech. A student applying for admission to the University, who has been suspended for participation in a protest, would not be required to report such activities. In the application for admission, we do provide students with space to share more information about themselves and their particular beliefs and the activities in which they have engaged and feel are important. Office of Admissions | Office of Undergraduate Education Contact Us Email: Contact Us General Office: 612-625-2008 or 1-800-752-1000 Visit and Events Office: 612-625-0000 Fax: 612-626-1693 Follow Us Mailing Address 240 Williamson Hall 231 Pillsbury Drive S.E Minneapolis, MN 55455-0213 United States Resources Request Info Parents & Family High School Counselors Admissions Counselor Student Tour Guide Our commitment to improving diversity, equity, inclusion, and social justice. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue | Title IX © 2021 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Ethics Statement The University of Minnesota is a proud member of the National Association for College Admission Counseling (NACAC), which values and is committed to practicing ethical behavior in college admissions. For Students, Faculty, and Staff One Stop MyU © 2022 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement Report Web Disability-Related Issue Admissions Admissions Overview Freshman Admission Transfer Admission International Admission English Proficiency Information International Transfer Credit Evaluation Admitted Students Contact our Counselors Forms, Publications & Resources Come Work With Us! Academics Academics Overview Majors Colleges at the U of M Special Programs Research Rankings Academics and Support Learning Communities High School Course Requirements Life at Minnesota Location Opportunities Housing Study Abroad Big Ten Diversity Cost & Aid Cost, Aid, & Scholarships Scholarships Information for National Merit Semifinalists Financial Aid Reciprocity Visit Visit Us Campus Driving and Parking Directions Virtual Tours and Visits Apply How to Apply Application Checklist Missing Information Application Tracker Confirm Confirm Family & Counselor Info Parent & Family Resources School Counselors