Menu Undergraduate Admission Home Prepare for College Visit Visit Georgia Tech Prepare for Your Visit Explore Atlanta Virtual Visits Apply First-Year Admission Transfer Admission International Applicants International First-Year Applicants International Transfer Applicants Other Programs Dual Enrollment Non-Degree Programs 62 and Older Program Counselors Contact Us Contact Us Join Mailing List Blog Check Application Status Prepare for College It’s never too early to start thinking about college. Your college admission experience should not only be about exploring colleges, finding a good fit, and getting in. It’s also an opportunity to learn more about yourself—to understand who you are, where you will thrive, what makes sense financially, and how to use your resources along the way. We’ve created this resource page to help you ask good questions, learn about what college admission readers are looking for, and keep perspective along the way. Finding the college that is right for you is an exciting adventure. We hope these resources will be good tools to help you get there. College Selection Guide Use our College Selection Guide to help narrow down the options and find your best fit college. Download College Guide USG Facts and Figures Review 2021 admission stats and information for all University System of Georgia (USG) colleges and institutions, including Georgia Tech. View USG Data Chart Georgia Tech Admission Blog Follow our admission blog, where we share advice and tips weekly to help you along your college admission journey. Subscribe to the Blog College Admission Brief Podcast The College Admission Brief is a podcast for high school students going through the college admission experience. In each podcast episode, we provide timely tips, insider insight, and healthy perspective in a light, practical, and, most importantly, quick format. Our goal is to give you general advice about visiting colleges, creating a balanced list, understanding the admission process, and understanding admission decisions— all with levity, encouragement, and personal stories. Listen on Apple Podcasts Google Spotify Learn More About Georgia Tech Colleges and Majors  View informational flyers for our six colleges to learn more about Georgia Tech’s 36 Bachelor of Science degrees. Select a College Business Computing Design Engineering Liberal Arts Sciences Student Life at Tech Learn more about Georgia Tech’s academics, innovative programs, student activities, and exciting campus environment. Explore Student Life Atlanta, Georgia Check out all of the opportunities Atlanta has to offer in entertainment, education, food, music, sports, and more. About Atlanta Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology This website uses cookies. For more information, review our Privacy & Legal Notice. Questions? Please email privacy@gatech.edu. OK