Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Explore > Academics (Majors) Academics The University of Texas at Austin offers bachelor’s degree-seekers more than 170 fields of study across 12 colleges and schools. Some of these come with prerequisites; check them out before you apply. School of Architecture The School of Architecture offers admission only to the fall semester. Architectural Studies Architectural History Architecture Architecture/Plan II* Architecture/Architectural Engineering* Interior Design McCombs School of Business The McCombs School of Business offers freshman admission only to the summer or fall semesters, and transfer admission only to fall. Apply to Unspecified Business, then declare a specialization in: Accounting Canfield Business Honors Program Finance International Business Integrated Masters in Professional Accounting*** Management Management Information Systems Marketing Science and Technology Management Supply Chain Management Moody College of Communication The Moody College of Communication offers admission only to the fall semester. Advertising Communication and Leadership Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences Audiology Deaf Education/Deaf Studies Speech/Language Pathology Communication Studies Corporate Communication Interpersonal Communication Political Communication Journalism Public Relations Radio-Television-Film Undeclared (Communication) College of Education Applied Learning and Development All-Level Generic Special Education Early Childhood to Grade 6 Generalist Early Childhood to Grade 6 Bilingual Generalist Certification Early Childhood to Grade 6 English as a Second Language Youth and Community Studies (Apply to any major, then declare a specialization.) Athletic Training (Apply to Pre-Athletic Training; see Special Programs for more information.) Kinesiology and Health Education Applied Movement Science Exercise Science Health Promotion and Behavioral Science Physical Culture and Sports Sport Management (Apply to Physical Culture and Sports; see Special Programs for more information.) The College of Education offers freshman admission to all entry terms; summer, fall, and spring. Cockrell School of Engineering The Cockrell School of Engineering offers freshman admission only to the summer or fall semesters, and transfer admission only to fall. Aerospace Engineering Architectural Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computational Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Environmental Engineering Geosystems Engineering and Hydrogeology** Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering College of Fine Arts The College of Fine Arts offers admission only to the fall semester and gives preference for admission and artistic merit scholarships to applicants who select Fine Arts majors as their first choice. Acting (Offers admission only to freshman applicants) Art History Arts and Entertainment Technologies Dance Dance Education (Apply to Dance, then declare a specialization.) Design Jazz Music (B.A.) Music Composition (B.A. or B.M.) Music Performance Music Studies (Music Education) Choral Music Emphasis Instrumental Emphasis Studio Art Theatre and Dance Theatre Education Art Education Jackson School of Geosciences The Jackson School of Geosciences offers admission only to the fall semester. Environmental Science (Geological Sciences) Geological Sciences (Apply to Geological Sciences, then declare a specialization.) General Geophysics Hydrogeology Environmental Science and Sustainability Teaching Geosystems Engineering and Hydrogeology** School of Information Informatics (B.A. or B.S.I.) The School of Information offers freshman admission to all entry terms; summer, fall, and spring. College of Liberal Arts African and African Diaspora Studies American Studies Anthropology Asian Cultures and Languages (Apply to Asian Cultures and Languages, then declare a specialization.) Chinese Hindi/Urdu Japanese Korean Malayalam Sanskrit Tamil Asian Studies (Apply to Asian Studies, then declare a specialization.) East Asia South Asia Taiwan Classical Languages (Apply to Classical Languages, then declare a specialization.) Classics Greek Latin Classical Studies (Apply to Classical Studies, then declare a specialization.) Ancient History Classical Archaeology Economics English Environmental Science (Geographical Sciences) (Offers admission only to the fall semester) Ethnic Studies Asian American Mexican American European Studies French Studies Geography German Government Health & Society History Human Dimensions of Organizations Humanities (Offers transfer admission only to the fall semester; freshman applicants, see Special Programs for more information.) International Relations and Global Studies Italian Jewish Studies Latin American Studies Linguistics Middle Eastern Studies Philosophy Plan II Honors Program (Offers freshman admission only to the fall semester) Portuguese Psychology Race, Indigeneity, and Migration Religious Studies Rhetoric and Writing Russian, East European and Eurasian Studies Sociology Spanish Sustainability Studies Undeclared (Liberal Arts) (Offers admission only to freshman applicants) Urban Studies Women’s and Gender Studies The College of Liberal Arts offers freshman admission to all entry terms; summer, fall, and spring. College of Natural Sciences All students are admitted with entry-level status in their chosen major. Students will decide which degree pathway to follow after completing entry level coursework. Astronomy Biochemistry Biology Cell and Molecular Biology Computational Biology Ecology, Evolution and Behavior Genetics and Genomics Human Biology Marine and Freshwater Science Microbiology and Infectious Diseases Plant Biology Teaching Chemistry Computation Teaching Computer Science (Offers transfer admission only to the fall semester) Environmental Science (Biological Sciences) (Offers admission only to the fall semester) Human Development and Family Sciences Early Childhood Families and Personal Relationships Families and Society Human Development Human Ecology Mathematics Actuarial Science Applied Mathematics Mathematical Sciences Pure Mathematics Teaching Medical Laboratory Science Neuroscience Nutrition Dietetics International Nutrition Nutritional Sciences Nutrition and Public Health Physics Biophysics Computation Radiation Physics Space Sciences Teaching Pre-Pharmacy Public Health Textiles and Apparel Merchandising and Consumer Sciences Apparel, Functional and Technical Design Textile Conservation and Museum Studies Undeclared (Natural Sciences) (Offers admission only to freshman applicants) School of Nursing The School of Nursing offers admission only to the fall semester. Want to be considered for Nursing? If you’re applying for transfer admission, select Nursing as your first choice. Nursing College of Pharmacy Pharmacy (Apply to Pre-Pharmacy in the College of Natural Sciences; see Special Programs for more information.) The College of Pharmacy program requirements include at least two years of undergraduate pre-pharmacy prerequisites and core/flag course requirements. Steve Hicks School of Social Work Social Work The Steve Hicks School of Social Work offers freshman admission to all entry terms; summer, fall, and spring. * Dual degree plan ** Offered jointly by the Cockrell School of Engineering and the Jackson School of Geosciences; freshmen should apply to the Jackson School, while transfers should apply to Cockrell ***Integrated undergraduate/graduate program Special Programs Many of our majors offer options or specializations. But certain fields of study require separate or delayed application, special advising or additional certification. These special programs include: Athletic Training Sport Management Humanities Pharmacy Pre-Med Pre-Law Public Health Social Work Teaching (UTeach) Next: Back to Explore Go to The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022