Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Cost and Aid Afford Oregon State Cost and Aid Scholarships Site Financial Aid Site Apply for Aid (FAFSA) Apply for Admissions Tuition and Costs A college education is a smart investment. Oregon State University students receive an excellent value from their hard work, and it pays off. According to PayScale, Oregon State graduates earn a median early career salary of $57,700 and $104,500 at mid-career. Tuition and costs vary depending on a student’s residency status, course of study, and degree level. Some academic majors/programs charge a differential tuition rate, which can be found in the tuition tables. All degree-seeking students also pay the Building, Incidental, Technology, Student Health Service and Counseling Service fees each term. Actual expenses will vary based on a student’s personal choices and course of study. Tuition and Fees Tuition and Fees What are the different types of mandatory fees? Tuition Equity Costs of Attendance General Cost of Attendance Room and Dining Rates Net Price Calculator Residency Requirements General Information on Residency Residency FAQ Financing Your Education You are not on your own. Most Oregon State students receive some form of financial support. There are scholarships, grants, work-study, and loans available to help pay for college. Over $15 million in scholarships are funded by generous, alumni who have done well and want to give back. One day, you might be able to do the same. General Financial Aid Financial aid is based on the premise that you (and in the case of dependent students, your parents/guardians) are primarily responsible for providing for your educational expenses, and it is intended to supplement student and family contributions toward educational costs. Financial Aid Website Undergraduate Aid Basics Important Dates Emergency Funding Requests Paying for College (Dreamers and Undocumented Students) Scholarships and Grants Scholarships are financial awards based on academic achievement and promise. Many scholarships are awarded based on merit; however, some also consider financial need. Like grants, scholarships do not have to be repaid. Incoming first-year students are automatically considered for available scholarships when you complete the scholarship application. Scholarships and ScholarDollars Website Federal Grant Basics State Grant Opportunities Work-Study Federal work-study funding helps provide part-time jobs for students with financial need. Being awarded work-study funds allows you to apply for jobs that specifically have the work-study designation. Work-Study Basics Undergraduate Work-Study FAQ Federal Work-Study Loans Student loans are a valuable resource for funding your education. Loans need to be repaid when you have completed your degree or are no longer enrolled at least half time in an accredited program. You can estimate your loan repayment by using the calculator at studentloans.gov. Federal Loan Basics Private Loan Basics Student Loan Repayment Special Opportunities for Oregon State Students WUE Program Oregon State is a participant institution with the Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) program. With the WUE Scholarship, residents from Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, Wyoming, Guam, Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the North Mariana Islands may be eligible for tuition at 150% of resident tuition (renewable for 4 years). Note that new incoming students are considered for WUE based on the info they provide in the admissions process. Awards are competitive and not all students from these participating states and territories are chosen to receive WUE rates. WUE Program Information Bridge to Success Program Oregon State residents may be eligible for the Bridge to Success program and receive financial support in the form of scholarships and grants from various sources that cover the cost of basic tuition and fees at OSU. Qualified applicants also receive offers of on-campus student employment, are eligible to waive the $200 Advance Tuition Deposit (ATD) needed to confirm their enrollment, and economical meal plan options in our dining halls. Bridge to Success Overview Bridge to Success FAQ Degree Partnership Program (DPP) Many students choose to participate in Oregon State’s Degree Partnership Program, a pathway to completing a university degree more affordably. This program allows you to be jointly admitted and enrolled at Oregon State and any of our Oregon and Hawai’i community college partner schools. Whether you start at a participating community college and end up at OSU or split time between OSU and your community college, you’ll be a Beaver on day one! Degree Partnership Program Information ScholarDollars Scholarship Search Oregon State students may use the ScholarDollars scholarship search to apply for the almost $10 million in donor-funded scholarships and nearly $50 million in campus-based scholarship funding. After submitting an application, you will be considered for nearly 2,000 Oregon State scholarship opportunities. OSU ScholarDollars Information and Application Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram