Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Schedule Your Visit There are a variety of ways to get to know NC State's campus and community. Whether you visit us in-person or from the comfort of your own home, we're excited to show you around. On-Campus Visits If you visit campus on a weekend or university holiday, feel free to stop by the Joyner Visitor Center to grab a brochure from our bin outside. Information Session and Tour Prospective first-year and transfer students who have not yet applied to NC State are invited to attend an on-campus admissions information session and student-led campus tour. Campus visits are offered Monday through Friday starting at Talley Student Union. You can expect to be on Main Campus for approximately two hours. Campus Visit Parking Address Coliseum Parking Deck Pay Lot (enter lower level from Cates Avenue) 201 Jensen Drive Raleigh, NC 27607 First-Year Visit Transfer Visit Admitted Student Events Virtual Information Sessions Learn about our home without ever stepping foot on campus! We offer a variety of virtual options to help students gain a sense of what it means to live and learn at NC State. Register for one or more of the options below based on the information you are interested in learning. Once registered, a Zoom meeting link will be provided by email the day of the session. Admissions Information Session Offered monthly, during this live 30-minute information session, you will hear from an admissions officer about the admissions review process and what it takes to be a competitive applicant. There will be time at the end for Q&A. Special Topic Sessions These sessions are open to first-year and transfer students. You will have the opportunity to learn about various offices and programs including: Arts NC State, Fraternity and Sorority Life, Scholarships and Financial Aid, Undergraduate Research and more. Which session should I attend? High school students should attend our first-year information session. Students who have already graduated from high school and have begun taking college courses at another institution should attend our transfer information session. Active-duty and veteran status military students should also attend our transfer information session. Students who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents should attend our international information session. First-Year Information Session Transfer Information Session International Information Session Self-Guided Campus Tour If you stop by campus during the week and are not registered for a campus tour, stop by our Joyner Visitor Center to pick up information about a self-guided tour. Self-guided campus tours are accompanied by a video playlist featuring current students. The video playlist and self-guided tour highlight our well-known student spaces on NC State’s Main Campus including Talley Student Union, Wellness & Recreation and Hill Library. Joyner Visitor Center 1210 Varsity Drive Raleigh, NC 27606 Free Visitor Parking College-Specific Information Sessions With 100+ majors across 10 undergraduate colleges, NC State offers a wide variety of academic programs to fit students’ interests. You must select a major of interest or two when completing the application to NC State, which is taken into consideration in the admission review process. We encourage students to register for college-specific sessions to learn more about the majors offered to narrow down their choice(s). Visit options vary by college. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences Poole College of Management College of Natural Resources College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles Exploratory Studies Life Sciences First Year 2-Yr Agricultural Institute Speak With an Admissions Officer There are a variety of ways to connect with our office no matter where you are. Hours: Monday – Friday, 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Email: undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu Phone: (919) 515-2434 High School Group Visits We welcome prospective high school student groups to attend an on-campus admissions information session followed by a student-led campus tour. Group visits will be offered on Thursdays at 11 a.m. during the summer. We will contact you to confirm your visit if your request has been approved. For more information about scheduling a self-guided group tour during the summer please email campusvisits@ncsu.edu. If your group would like to eat on campus during their visit, we encourage you to contact NC State Dining to discuss your options. Request a group visit NC State Dining Contact NC State Dining to determine the best dining options for your group. Virtual Tour Explore NC State’s campus from the comfort of your own home. Parking and Directions Information Session Parking Information sessions are held at Talley Student Union. Visitors must pay to park in the Coliseum Deck. Visitors will need to enter the parking deck through the Cates Avenue entrance and pre-pay by phone using the ParkMobile app. Campus Visit Parking Address Coliseum Parking Deck Pay Lot (enter lower level from Cates Avenue) 201 Jensen Drive Raleigh, NC 27607 Visitor Parking Information There are a few options for visitor parking across NC State’s campus. Review the visitor parking information and campus map to determine which option works best for you. Find visitor parking Lodging Raleigh has a variety of lodging options, perfect for planning a longer stay at NC State. While there is a wide selection of places to stay, we’ve listed hotels within three miles of NC State’s campus for your convenience. View all hotel options in Raleigh to find the best location for your stay. Aloft Raleigh Days Inn – Downtown Raleigh Doubletree by Hilton – Brownstone – University Hampton Inn and Suites Raleigh Downtown Holiday Inn Express and Suites Raleigh Holiday Inn – Downtown Raleigh Marriott – Raleigh City Center Ramada Raleigh StateView Hotel Sheraton Raleigh Capitol Center Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.