Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Cost of Attendance Apply for Financial AidNet Price CalculatorFinancial Aid FAQs back Click to Close MyinTuition Quick Cost Estimator 62900 Average Scholarship Award for the Class of 2025 Resources & Information Click to Open More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Dartmouth College's Cost of Attendance (COA) 2022-2023 Direct Costs The directly-billed charges include tuition, fees, housing and food. You will be billed for these charges approximately six weeks before each term starts. Tuition: $60,687 Fees*: $1,971 Housing: $10,881 Food*: $7,218 Estimated Indirect Costs Plan to arrive on campus with sufficient funds for your out-of-pocket expenses. You will need an average of $1,015 per term to pay for your own books, supplies, laundry, toiletries etc. These indirect costs will not appear on your college bill. Books: $1,005 Misc.: $2,040 Total: $83,802* * First-Year Students have additional fees associated with orientation of $453. These are included in the above totals. Additional Expenses Health Insurance All students must purchase the Group Health Insurance Plan unless they can certify to Health Services that they are covered by a comparable medical plan. The cost of the plan in 2021-2022 is $4,163. Students who receive need-based financial aid will receive 1/2 of the health plan cost in additional scholarship funds, if purchased. Computer Entering students are required to have a computer meeting Dartmouth requirements. Students may provide their own computer or purchase one through the College. The cost for the basic computer package in 2021-2022 is $1,700. Travel You may incur costs for travel to and from Dartmouth. All awards will include an amount to assist with travel expenses, but each student is responsible for arranging and paying for their own transportation as part of their family contribution. Try our Quick Cost Estimator! Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback