Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Costs & financial aid Earn your degree with less debt. UW graduates complete college with less debt than the national average. Of UW students surveyed six months after graduation, 18% report continuing their education, and 71% report having found employment. Scroll downPurple downward facing arrow How much will it cost? We believe that students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the UW. Finances should not be a barrier to a world-class education. Rankings #3 Best Value Wall Street Journal, 2018 #5 Best Value College Forbes, 2018 #1 Public Universities that Pay Off the Most CNBC, 2019 Apply for aid We believe everyone should have the opportunity to attend the UW. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. Details Husky promise Husky Promise is our guarantee to Washington state residents that we will not let financial challenges stand in the way of discovering their potential or achieving a UW degree. Read more Scholarships Scholarships are funds that don’t have to be paid back after graduation. Explore what might be available to you. Explore scholarships Join the email list Get tips from our Admissions team on: How to submit the strongest application Important deadlines Majors and academic programs Campus tours and UW events in your area Join We believe that students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington Costs & Financial Aid Home Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Purple and Gold scholarship Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA