Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Undergraduate Admissions Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy First-Year ApplicantsIt all starts here Transfer ApplicantsEasy transition Check Application Status Costs & Aid Apply for Aid Financial Aid Eligibility Costs to Attend Financial Aid Calculator Value of a Cornell Education Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Facts Frequently Asked Questions Cornell A-Z Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections You are here Home » Learn » Global Opportunities print share Facebook Twitter Global Opportunities Cornell has had a global outlook from its very beginning. Students from Russia, Brazil, England, and Canada were among our earliest graduates. Cornell students, faculty, and alumni travel the world, searching for new knowledge and sharing their expertise. Many work in communities across the globe helping to affect real-world change. You can too. Through courses, campus life, library resources, and programs, you can learn about the global opportunities Cornell provides. The world awaits. Study Abroad Cornell University offers a variety of programs for study abroad and international experiential learning. Campus Life Resources There is tremendous opportunity to meet, live, and work with international students and scholars, both on and off campus. Despite its small-town appeal, Ithaca is a surprisingly cosmopolitan city, thanks largely to Cornell, which is overflowing with the perspectives, ideas, and cultural traditions of countries all across the globe. International Agreements Cornell has long had international agreements with institutions across the globe. The University recognizes the value these exchanges have in broadening the international experience of participants and fostering goodwill between Cornell University and the international community. Library Resources The Cornell University Library offers outstanding collections and specialized staff dedicated to international studies. It includes nearly one million volumes focused on Asia, Africa, Eastern Europe, the former Soviet Union, Latin America, and the Middle East. Mario Einaudi Center For International Studies The Einaudi Center is a hub for global activity at Cornell. The center organizes, catalyzes, and supports collaborative and interdisciplinary research, teaching, and outreach programs across campus. Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Contact Us From your first questions about Cornell to the completion of your application, the Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you find the information you need. Website Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. University Privacy Statement Undergraduate Admissions Office Cornell University 410 Thurston Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 admissions@cornell.edu Tel: 607.255.5241 Fax: 607.255.0659 © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment Admitted Students