Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Housing & Dining You are here Home Student Life Housing & Dining About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Living on campus means living in the center of it all. Living in an on-campus residence hall at Temple is about more than where you’ll be studying and sleeping; it’s your opportunity to make new friends and discover your community, whether you're a student-athlete, transfer student or away from home for the first time. More than 15,000 students live on or near Main Campus. As a resident within University Housing, you will experience programs and events facilitated by the resident assistants, community council, peer mentors, resident coordinators and our resident directors. Our Residential Curriculum is rooted in self-exploration, relationship development, and social and cultural awareness, as well as building our own communities and connections. Most first-year students choose to live on campus. Here’s what to know. On-campus housing is guaranteed for first-year students if they commit to Temple by May 1. Transfer student housing options are also available, on a first-come, first-served basis. Accessible and gender-inclusive housing options are available. We have several Living Learning Communities where students who share a common interest, such as entrepreneurship, can be part of an experiential, residential community. Contents On-campus Residence HallsSpecialty Housing and AccessibilityOff-campus HousingDining and Meal Plans On-campus Residence Halls Temple’s residence halls offer a variety of living experiences, from apartment-style to doubles and singles. Learn more about each of our University Housing options, including rates per semester. Be sure to take a virtual tour of each of our residence halls on our tour page. On-campus housing is guaranteed for first-year students if you commit to Temple by May 1. 1300 Residence Hall 1940 Residence Hall James S. White Hall Morgan Hall North and South Temple Towers Johnson and Hardwick Halls Suite-style floor plans include at least two, two-person bedrooms and include two half bathrooms—one with a sink and a toilet and another with a sink and a shower. This residence hall also provides accommodations for students with disabilities. Current Semester Rates Quad lounge: $4,914 Double suite: $5,025 Single apartment: $6,804 Double studio: $5,192 Double apartment: $5,669 Learn more about 1300 Residence Hall’s floor plans, amenities and rates per semester. Suite-style floor plans include at least two, two-person bedrooms and include two half bathrooms—one with a sink and a toilet and another with a sink and a shower. This residence hall also provides accommodations for students with disabilities. Current Semester Rate Double: $4,975 Learn more about 1940 Residence Hall’s floor plans, amenities and rates per semester. Suite-style floor plans include at least two, two-person bedrooms and include two half bathrooms—one with a sink and a toilet and another with a sink and a shower. This residence hall also provides accommodations for students with disabilities. Current Semester Rate Double: $4,827 Learn more about James S. White Hall’s floor plans, amenities and rates per semester. Apartment-style floor plans in Morgan Hall include a kitchen and dining space, multiple bedrooms and bathrooms, as well as a common space. All apartments accommodate between four and five students. This residence hall also provides accommodations for students with disabilities. Current Semester Rates (NORTH) Single one-bedroom apartment: $7,541 Double two-bedroom apartment $6,212 Current Semester Rates (SOUTH) Double one-bedroom apartment: $6,590 Double two-bedroom apartment: $6,212 Single A three-bedroom apartment: $6,480 Double B three-bedroom apartment: $6,098 Double C three-bedroom apartment: $6,212 Learn more about Morgan Hall’s floor plans, amenities and rates per semester. Apartment-style floor plans all have private bathrooms and fully equipped kitchens. Units can accommodate either three, six or seven students. This residence hall also provides accommodations for students with disabilities. Current Semester Rates Single: $6,172 Double: $5,384 Double large: $5,602 Double with bath $5,878 Learn more about Temple Towers’s floor plans, amenities and rates per semester. Traditional-style floor plans have a common hallway with bedrooms on either side, and residents share a gendered bathroom by floor. Current semester rates Single: $5,022 Double and triple: $4,318 Quad Lounge: $4,318 Learn more about Johnson and Hardwick Halls’ floor plans, amenities and rates per semester. Return to Top Specialty Housing and Accessibility We strive to accommodate our students’ residential experience in a way that best serves their educational and cultural experiences. Keep reading to learn more about our specialty housing options. Living Learning Communities Living Learning Communities (LLC) are residential communities of students who share a common interest, and they’re incredibly popular. Each community has dedicated a professional staff member as well as student staff members. Staff and faculty work to develop an intentional cocurriculum based on the theme of each LLC, and work with student staff living on the floors to create an experiential community. Types of Living Learning Communities Architecture, sustainability and environmental design Tyler School of Art and Architecture Fox School of Business College of Engineering Entrepreneurs and innovators Global Honors Program Klein College of Media and Communication Performing and Cinematic Arts Science and Technology School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management Thrive: Wellness Why join? ACADEMIC BENEFITS Students in LLCs have the benefit of living in a specialized group with increased ease of access to academic resources. As a result, our students excel academically and maintain higher-than-average grades. SOCIAL BENEFITS Coming to college for the first time is a fun and exciting experience, but it can also be daunting and stressful for many students. The LLC program provides staff and resources to help with this transition and create a welcoming community full of new friends and exciting opportunities. GET ACCLIMATED Come back to campus early for the Early Arrival program. Explore Philadelphia and get connected to campus resources before classes start. Transition into college life with the help of peer mentors and resident assistants. GET CONNECTED Live and grow with a group of peers who share a common interest. Meet students from other LLCs at all LLC events and programs. Network with a built-in community of upperclass students, staff and faculty. GET INVOLVED Attend LLC-exclusive programs focused on academic success. Volunteer in the local community through service projects and events. Take advantage of increased access to academic units, departments, programs and student organizations. How to Apply After submitting your housing deposit, you will be able to follow the steps under MyHousing in TUportal to start the application process to live in a Living Learning Community. These communities are very popular and space is limited, so it’s best to apply as soon as possible. Housing for Students with Disabilities In collaboration with the Office of Disability Resources and Services (DRS), a broad range of housing options have been reserved for eligible students. Available Accommodation Spaces Single and double wheelchair-accessible rooms ADA-compliant accessible bathrooms with grab bars Roll-in showers with chair and/or bench Keyless entry door systems in designated rooms Rooms with kitchen facilities Rooms equipped with strobe light for hearing-impaired Single rooms to accommodate personal care attendant services Emergency call buttons in designated areas Use of approved durable medical equipment The following residence halls contain spaces that have been designated as accommodations on reserve for students with disabilities. 1300 Residence Hall 1940 Residence Hall Morgan Hall Temple Towers Selection Process After submitting your housing deposit, you will be able to follow the steps under MyHousing in TUportal to start the application process. Please note that students must submit any supporting medical documentation to the Office of Disability Resources and Services for their review and approval. Students must be approved by the Office of Disability Resources and Services to be eligible for housing-related ADA accommodations. Gender-inclusive Housing Our students’ needs are diverse and University Housing and Residential Life’s mission is to to cultivate responsible community members by developing inclusive living and learning environments. Gender-inclusive housing is a strictly opt-in housing accommodation, and students must expressly state their desire for this type of housing. What’s gender-inclusive housing? It allows students to live in the same bedroom and share bathrooms with another student, regardless of biological sex, gender expression, gender identity or sexual orientation. Selection Process After submitting your housing deposit, you will be able to follow the steps under MyHousing in TUportal to start the application process for gender-inclusive housing. Photo Gallery View slideshow as list Close 1/9 2/9 3/9 4/9 5/9 6/9 7/9 8/9 9/9 How to Secure On-campus Housing Once you submit your enrollment and housing deposits through your TUportal, you can self-select your top choices of housing options. Remember, on-campus housing is guaranteed for first-year students if you submit your deposits by May 1. Selections are first come, first served, though. To get your top housing choice, start the selection process as early as possible. You can also pick a meal plan at the same time—all new students living in University Housing are required to purchase a meal plan. Self-selection process for on-campus housing and meal plans opens in early April. Important Updates for Residence Halls & On-campus Living Included below are details regarding the move-in process for the fall 2021 semester. The protocols are in place to keep the campus community safe and healthy. Will there be any changes made to residence halls for the fall 2021 semester regarding COVID-19? The fall 2021 Online Housing Selection Process opened on Thursday, April 1, 2021. Details pertaining to the fall move-in process will be sent by email to students the week of July 4, 2021. Students will be assigned a specific move-in time on their respective move-in day in line with University policies and procedures surrounding physical distancing. Students will be required to follow their specific check-in day and time during fall 2021 move-in. For additional information on residence hall planning and updates, or for any questions or concerns, visit the University Housing and Residential Life website or contact housing@temple.edu. Will campus recreation be reopening for the fall semester? What about intramurals and clubs? Campus Recreation facilities will be open for the fall semester beginning on Monday, Aug. 23. Students should check the Hours of Operation page for the most up to date schedules for the fall semester. As of now, reservations are not required for any facilities. In compliance with communication from President Wingard, masks are required to be worn indoors at all times, regardless of vaccination status. This includes all Campus Recreation facilities. Patrons are expected to bring a mask with them whenever visiting an indoor Campus Recreation facility. For more information and future updates, visit the Campus Recreation website. https://housing.temple.edu/ University Housing and Residential Life Be sure to visit the University Housing and Residential Life website for detailed information about on-campus living, housing selection, important dates and more. Visit the University Housing and Residential Life for more detailed information about on-campus housing Return to Top Off-campus Living Options In addition to on-campus housing, there are a variety of off-campus housing options available to students. Off-campus Services can work with you one-on-one and can help you navigate local real estate. Visit Off-campus Resources Return to Top Dining Options and Meal Plans We’ve kept what’s most important to you in mind, building in the convenience, flexibility, quality, value and healthy options you deserve. Explore our meal plan options to learn more about what would be the best fit for you. Check out some frequently asked questions about meal plans below. Morgan Hall Food Court and Dining Center Howard Gittis Student Center Food Court Food Trucks Esposito Dining Center On the first floor of Morgan Hall North, you’ll find a food court with popular eateries such as Panda Express. Upstairs, on the second floor, is a more traditional college dining center where options include breakfast and brunch specials, daily vegan and vegetarian entrées, fresh produce and more. Morgan Hall Dining Center also offers convenient grab-n-go meals and allergen-free dishes for guests with special dietary needs. This food court is located inside the Student Center, which is centrally located on campus and also houses several student activities and services. Expect to find several fast food and fast casual dining from national chains, such as BurgerFi® and Saladworks®. There’s a Starbucks®, too, in the Student Center Lobby. Temple is known for its unique variety of food trucks representing food from all over the world. No matter where you are on campus, you’re always near a food truck. Whether you crave a snack (warm, just-baked cookies, anyone?) or something more filling (Korean-Mexican burrito bowl?), you’re covered. There’s an option for all cravings and diets. This dining hall is located on the bottom floor of Johnson and Hardwick Halls, and caters to fit a variety of needs and preferences. Options include traditional breakfast for those early mornings, such as cereal, eggs and pancakes. Lunch and dinner feature a large selection of cuisines, such as a vegan sauté station; grill for burgers and fries; various sandwiches and entrées; and daily rotating specials. This dining center is a nut-free facility with choices for all diets, including Kosher and Halal options upon request. Meal Plans We know you’ll have lots of questions about which meal plan is right for you. Below, we include answers to frequently asked questions from incoming students. What are meal plans like at Temple? At Temple, you can expect meal plans that are convenient and flexible based on your individual needs and schedule. You will be able to use your meal plan for standard meals including breakfast, lunch and dinner, plus some essential added bonuses like coffee (every college student’s best friend), snacks to fuel those late-night study sessions in the library and much more all throughout campus. You can use your meal plan at dining halls or for a la carte dining at different spots on campus, like the fast-casual options in the Howard Gittis Student Center. Meal plans are accessed via OWLcard, which are our Temple University identification cards. Learn more about meal plans at Temple. What meal plans are offered? Temple offers a range of meal plans from unlimited meal swipes to five meals a week and much more. Prices run approximately between $530 and $1,800 per semester depending on your plan. See the complete breakdown of meal plan prices. Temple has a meal plan to meet the needs of every student. For those accustomed to eating three full meals a day, the Unlimited meal plan is for you. If you tend to skip breakfast, eating only two meals a day, the Weekly 12 or Weekly 15 plan might be a better choice. Or, the Block 50 and Block 100 meal plans—each featuring a bundle of meals to use over the course of the semester—are also available for students with less predictable eating habits. Learn more about Temple meal plans and pricing. Am I required to have a meal plan? If you are a first-year student living in on-campus housing, or a transfer student residing on campus, you are required to purchase a minimum meal plan of 10 meals per week. https://temple.campusdish.com/LocationsAndMenus Dining Options Browse all of the dining options at Temple, including menus and locations. Link to campus dining page. https://temple.campusdish.com/MealPlans/Category?cat=Students_Required_to_Buy_10… Explore meal plans Plans are flexible and can be used across campus. https://temple.campusdish.com/MealPlans/Category?cat=Students_Required_to_Buy_10… Link to campus dining page. Diamond Dollars Diamond Dollars are a convenient way to put money on your OWLcard to eliminate the need to carry cash and can be used at most restaurants and stores across campus. The majority of our meal plans come with Diamond Dollars added to your account, and you can add additional funds to your OWLcard at any time. Learn more by visiting Temple’s Diamond Dollars website. Important Updates for Dining on Campus Our food service operations will continue to abide by health and safety guidelines implemented to ensure student safety and help us to best serve the Temple community. The health and safety of all Temple students, faculty and staff is always our primary goal. We’re going above and beyond government requirements for food safety and cleanliness to make sure students and employees feel confident using campus dining services when they are on campus. Read our detailed plan regarding dining on campus. For additional information on residence hall planning for the spring semester and beyond, visit our coronavirus information site. Back to Student Life Go back to Student LifeMore in Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info