Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site Residential Colleges Fourteen Colleges. One Yale. Yale's Residential Colleges The Residential College housing system is at the heart of the Yale experience. Before arriving on campus, each first-year student is randomly assigned to one of fourteen residential colleges, giving Yalies a built-in community from the moment they arrive. Most Yale students quickly become convinced that their residential college is the best. Each close-knit community, housed in stunning buildings centered on a green courtyard, serves as a microcosm of Yale’s diverse student population, while preserving the intimacy of a smaller college experience. virtual tour spring je night architecture PM dining say to br harkness silliman Now more than 75 years old, Yale’s residential college system is perhaps the most distinctive feature of undergraduate life at Yale. It provides a built-in, tight-knit family for students from the moment they arrive, blending diversity, camaraderie, and pride for one’s residential community. Big & Small Far more than just dormitories, Yale’s residential colleges serve as a home away from home for students. Each college has its own library, gym, dining hall, and activity spaces – from movie theatres and recording studios to basketball courts and printing presses – all housed in distinctive, stunning buildings that center around grassy courtyards. The term “college” can be misleading. Yale’s residential colleges have nothing to do with majors. Instead, all students are randomly assigned to a college before they even arrive on campus and spend all four years living alongside that cohort. Each college creates a microcosm of the undergraduate student body, blending the cohesiveness and intimacy of a small school with the vibrancy and resources of a world-class university. Diversity & Community The colleges provide an exceptional opportunity to meet and learn from students with different interests – people students might not otherwise encounter in their courses or extracurricular activities. Many students form their closest and most enduring friendships through their college, though students can choose to engage in residential college life as much as they like. The colleges also bring together faculty and students to form an integrated support system. Each college hosts guest speakers, fellowships, and cultural events. With programs of formal advising, seminars, and activities that encourage students’ extracurricular interests, the colleges create a dynamic bridge between academic and social life. Residential Colleges Defined Head and Dean: The Head of the College and Dean of the College are senior faculty and administrators who live in the college, eat meals with students in the dining hall, and serve as the college’s leaders. Buttery: In the basement of each college is a snack bar that sells cheap food late at night. It often serves as a gathering place for students in the college to take a break from working. College Tea: Each Head of College hosts afternoon teas throughout the year at which students can gather in small groups to interact with a guest speaker. Some recent guests include Denzel Washington, Brian Williams, R.L. Stein, Chris “Ludacris” Bridges, and Whoopi Goldberg. Study Break: College Heads and Deans make sure students take plenty of breaks from studying, so during finals time they host nightly study breaks in their homes with plenty of food. Dining Hall: Each college has its own dining hall where students eat. In addition, each college has its own library, gym, TV room, music practice room, and other facilities like theaters. Tyng Cup: Each college competes against all others in over thirty intramural sports, ranging from soccer to ping pong. The college that performs the best gets the coveted Tyng Cup. 1933 The first seven of Yale’s fourteen colleges opened. 14 Residential Colleges. Each with 400-500 undergraduates. BULLDOG BLOGS Finding a First-Year Family Posted by Katherine Salinas BULLDOG BLOGS The Dining Hall Crawl Posted by Logan Klutse In This Section Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Virtual Tour See for yourself: take the Virtual Tour to experience residential colleges from home. Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved