Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Applying to Brown Our admission process challenges us to discover how each applicant would contribute to — and benefit from — Brown's lively academic culture. Applying to Brown Our admission process challenges us to discover how each applicant would contribute to — and benefit from — Brown's lively academic culture. We will consider how your unique talents, accomplishments, energy, curiosity, perspective and identity might weave into the ever-changing tapestry that is Brown University. If you are drawn to Brown’s special blend of rigorous academics and engaging culture, we strongly encourage you to apply. We look forward to getting to know you. Information For: First-Year Applicants To apply to Brown, complete the Common Application and Brown Member section online. Visit Page Open details for First-Year Applicants International Applicants Every year Brown welcomes students from around the world. In fact, about 15 percent of our students come from abroad. Visit Page Open details for International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Brown values the extraordinary talents, experiences and diversity that veterans bring to campus. Visit Page Open details for U.S. Military Veterans Transfer Applicants Brown is happy to welcome transfer students to campus each year, as they offer important and significant contributions to our campus community. Visit Page Open details for Transfer Applicants Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Applicants The Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Program is a small, highly competitive program ideal for students who interrupted or delayed their formal education due to family commitments, financial concerns, health issues, employment opportunities or simply a compelling need to explore other paths. U.S. military veterans are highly encouraged to apply using Brown's specialized Veterans Application, available in mid-October. Visit Page Open details for Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Applicants Visiting Student Program Each year, Brown welcomes visiting students from partner institutions both in the United States and abroad. In addition, a limited number of students enrolled as full-time degree candidates at other colleges may apply to spend one or two semesters at Brown to pursue areas of study not otherwise available to them. Visit Page Open details for Visiting Student Program Rural and Small Town Students Brown University recognizes the academic contributions and valuable perspectives that students from rural and small town high schools add to our community. Visit Page Open details for Rural and Small Town Students First Generation College Students While Brown defines the term "first-generation college student" as a student whose parents did not complete a four-year college degree, the first-generation community at Brown is welcoming to any student who self-identifies as having had limited exposure to the college application process and the college-going experience. Visit Page Open details for First Generation College Students Start Your Application Applications to Brown are submitted online via the Common Application. Learn how to apply and start your application. How to Apply Special Programs Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME) The Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME) is an eight-year continuum that allows students to combine both their undergraduate and medical school education at Brown. Visit Page Open details for Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME) Brown | RISD Dual Degree Brown and Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) offer a combined five-year Dual Degree Program for students who wish to integrate studies in the liberal arts with concentrated work in the fine arts. Visit Page Open details for Brown | RISD Dual Degree QuestBridge QuestBridge connects the nation's brightest underserved youth with leading institutions of higher education. Brown is delighted to be part of this very successful and worthy program. Visit Page Open details for QuestBridge Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Applying to Brown Open details for Applying to Brown Bookmark this Page