Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Humanities Request InformationApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually Professor Graziella Parati: "If you really want to become a citizen of the world, you have to have the humanities. You have to be able to be open to otherness." Dartmouth combines a depth of traditional resources with innovative approaches to teaching and research to create a unique learning experience. Whether you're flipping through a first edition of The Book of Mormon in the Rauner Special Connections Library as part of your research or using the Rassias Method, invented at Dartmouth, to gain fluency in a foreign language, you'll be supported by accessible faculty and a small-classroom experience dedicated to your success. Our Faculty of Humanities Say See Another Quote Professor Lynn Patyk From terrorism as it has been influenced by the literary imagination to concepts of political paranoia and conspiracy theories, Professor Patyk looks at cognition and narrative to ask “how do we know which stories to believe, and how do stories influence our perceptions of reality?” Learn more about Lynn Patyk, Assistant Professor of Russian Professor Yasser Elhariry Born in Cairo, Elhariry says he “…was expected to…go to the U.S., acquire this knowledge, and then go back to Egypt…” “But on his way to earning his BS in computer engineering from Purdue, Elhariry—who grew up learning English, Arabic, and French—took a French literature class. “I totally fell in love with Baudelaire—a major 19th-century poet, anti-poet, super-poet, the most Christian, the most decadent, the central figure of poetic modernity,” he says. “That’s how I fell in love with literature.” Learn more about Yasser Elhariry, Assistant Professor of French Professor Vievee Francis “Poetry is a foundational art. It precedes the novel. It precedes the essay. And as such, all writing is served by the study of poetics. Everyone needs poetry when other means of communication fail. We don’t live life on the surfaces. We have to go underneath, and poetry—the lyric poem in particular—forces us to look at the emotive self and what that means.” Learn more about Vievee Francis, Associate Professor of English and Creative Writing Jonathan Smolin "The Bernstein Chair will help support my research and teaching in critical ways just as we’re launching our new Middle Eastern Studies Program. My research in general examines the links between politics and popular culture in the contemporary Arab world." Learn more about Jonathan Smolin, Associate Professor of Middle Eastern Studies and the Jane and Raphael Bernstein Professor in Asian Studies Cool Classes Dartmouth creates a rich academic culture imbued with critical thinking and creativity, one that promotes experimentation, reflection, learning, and leadership. But don't take our word for it. We asked our students to tell us about some of their favorite humanities courses. Academics at DartmouthDartmouth Humanities NewsResearch at Dartmouth Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. ENG 54.14: History of the Book A department of English and Creative Writing Course Part of what made this class amazing was the location in Rauner, Dartmouth's special collections library. Nestled among the rare books, some of our assignments involved finding cool pieces within the collection and sharing them with the class. Our final project was making a book in the Book Arts workshop: I made a 3-D box of little books, each with a feel-good message to make you feel better on a bad day. ENGL 82: Writing and Reading Poetry A Department of English and Creative Writing Course I love this class because of the professors who teach it--Vievee Francis or Cynthia Huntington--both amazing, published female poets (Professor Huntington recently got awarded a Guggenheim, and Professor Francis won a Poetry Prize for her book Forest Primeval) who dedicate their time to improving our skills as budding creative writers. I took this course with Professor Huntington sophomore winter. She personally read three drafts of my poetry portfolio until I felt satisfied with its contents. REG 60: Protestant Reformations A Department of Religion Course Taught by three faculty- Jane Carroll from the Art History department, Steven Swayne from the music department, and Randall Balmer from the Religion department- the class looks at the Protestant Reformations from three different aspects- religious, artistic and musical. Interdisciplinary studies can help you better understand the topic you are studying. Especially when dealing with a controversial topic, such as the Protestant Reformation, it is useful to have that context and background. PHIL 3: Reason and Argument A Department of Philosophy Course This class is an introduction to informal logic, looking at arguments as they arise in daily life as well as legal, scientific, and moral reasoning. I loved the professor's dynamic personality. In the beginning of the class we learned how to construct and pick apart arguments, and then applied our skills to problems such as proving that Santa Claus exists! SPAN 9: Culture and Conversation A Department of Spanish and Portuguese Course I always enjoyed Spanish in high school, but compared to my high school foreign language classes that focused heavily on grammar, I LOVED that this course focused more on culture. We discussed movies, read novels, and engaged in stimulating debates, all in Spanish! Plus, it really helped prepare me for my internship in Mexico City this past spring. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Humanities Alumni Nobel laureates, government leaders, judges, scientists, writers, scholars, journalists, entertainers-Dartmouth alumni have distinguished themselves in all fields. Here are some notable alumni in the field of humanities making a difference in the world. Learn More About Our Alumni Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. John Carney ’78 Major: English As a Dartmouth quarterback, John Carney earned All-Ivy League and Most Valuable Player honors, and went on to coach at the University of Delaware before entering politics. After serving as a Democratic lieutenant governor and U.S. Representative for Delaware, Carney was elected governor of the state in 2016. Alexi Pappas '12 MAJOR: ENGLISH Alexi Pappas is a runner, writer, producer, and actor. She represented Greece in the 10k at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio, and along with her partner Jeremy Teicher ’10, wrote and produced the films Tall as the Baobab, Tracktown (in which she starred), and a series of shorts for The New York Times titled Speed Goggles. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Study the Humanities Off Campus Select a Map Click to Open Study the Humanities Off Campus Basecamp to the World At Dartmouth, we have taken the traditional study abroad model, erased its boundaries, and expanded its parameters. Study abroad here is not an isolated semester in another country. Arranged through Dartmouth's Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education, these powerful learning experiences are enhanced through faculty mentorship. The curriculum and structure of the school year allow students to follow their research around the world. Dartmouth's Global Impact Click to stop viewing map. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog Freshman Year: A Retrospective A look back at my first year at Dartmouth! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 Art Classes at Dartmouth Here are the courses my friends and I have taken to fulfill the distributive requirement for art. Read More Eda Naz Gokdemir 2025 The Home Stretch! As I begin week 8, the end of the term is right around the corner! In this post, I share some information about finals, papers, and my future plans! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 Academics—the Dartmouth Difference 10 weeks, 3 classes, 40 departments and programs, 420 tenured and tenure-track professors—endless possibilities. Here's why I love academics at Dartmouth. Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 Teacher Appreciation Week! For teacher appreciation week, I'd like to share some professors who have had a massive impact on me during my freshman year at Dartmouth! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 How I Chose My Double Major! Compared to my high school, Dartmouth offered so many new subjects I'd never even studied before. Here's how I found my double major! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 First-Year Writing Here's everything you need to know about first year writing courses at Dartmouth! Read More Eda Naz Gokdemir 2025 The Value of Interdisciplinary Studies Ok, so I just used interdisciplinary studies, which is a college "buzzword." But I promise I have a new perspective! Read More Caroline York 2025 Encountering Faith and Reason with Other Dartmouth Students! Last week, I had the opportunity to attend the Veritas Conference in Boston with Dartmouth's Christian thought journal, which turned out to be the highlight of my term. Read More Tulio Huggins 2023 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Jump To: Major Click to Open Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Classics English French and Italian German Studies Philosophy Religion Russian Spanish and Portuguese Back to top chevrons up Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News VIDEO: Professor Jennifer Lind on U.S.-China Relations Asian cultures have long and productive traditions in science and technology, arts and literature, political philosophy, business and economics, religious beliefs and practices—traditions that have become dominant forces in the contemporary world. A basic knowledge of Asia as a field of study is thus vital to globally-minded students. At Dartmouth, ASCL courses offer students the opportunity to explore a range of critical theories and methodologies used by Asia specialists from various disciplines. They also provide students with broader perspectives on Asia and opportunities to focus on Asia's shared cultural heritages and humanistic responses to historical and sociological phenomena. Both ASCL majors and minors are required to complete upper-level Asian language coursework. Students interested in learning more about issues related to international law and human rights, the environment and global warming, economic development and migration, media and the arts, and technology may find themselves drawn to Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages as a field of study. Depending on the amount of language incorporated into their programs, students pursuing an ASCL major enter fields of journalism, finance, and teaching without further study. Others attend graduate school and pursue careers in medicine, law, international affairs, and academics. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Classics Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Classics Professor's Book Group for Vets Goes National Classics lies in the heart of what a liberal education can be. The study of Classics offers students knowledge about the ancient world and an education of lasting personal and professional value. Courses in the Classics address a wide set of critical concerns and maintain a steady focus on sharpening analytical thinking and writing skills. Classical education invites students to share appreciation for—and scrutiny of—the legacies of the ancient world. The Dartmouth Classics Department studies every aspect of ancient life and thought, from the Greek and Latin languages to literature, history, philosophy, archaeology and the study of the material cultures of ancient Greece and Rome. The Department of Classics offers a wide-ranging curriculum taught by faculty scholars firmly committed to excellence in undergraduate education. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Ancient History Graduation Requirements Classical Archaeology Graduation Requirements Classical Languages and Literatures Graduation Requirements Classical Studies Graduation Requirements English Bachelor of Arts The study of English teaches students critical modes of thinking that are beneficial in almost any academic or professional endeavor. By focusing on major theoretical schools of the twentieth century--such as structuralism, post-structuralism, feminism, Marxism, deconstruction, queer theory, psychoanalysis, and post-colonialism—students studying English learn how to integrate an array of demanding analytic paradigms. A corollary set of intellectual skills developed as a Dartmouth English major is the knowing deployment of a sophisticated critical vocabulary. In recent years, approximately 100 members of each Dartmouth class have graduated as English majors. Some continue their study in graduate school; others prepare to teach English in secondary schools; others become journalists, writers, and editors; and many go on to law school and medical school. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements French and Italian Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Learning Italian by Making Movies and Mapping Landmarks The study of French and Italian embody the idea that learning another language is about more than learning different words for the same things—the study of a new language is about learning different ways of thinking about things. Dartmouth’s Department of French and Italian is one of the largest foreign literature departments relative to undergraduate population in the United States, and it offers a wide array of courses, from beginning language to surveys of literature to single-topic advanced seminars. Students may elect either a major or a minor through the department. A total of ten term-long study programs take place in France and Italy every year, and students consistently cite these programs—which are well-established and designed to coordinate with on-campus coursework—as high points in their Dartmouth careers. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements German Studies Bachelor of Arts The importance of German within the liberal arts setting is indisputable. German-speakers occupy a prominent place on any list of the world’s great artists and thinkers, and many academic disciplines have strong German traditions. In fact, the modern university itself—with its combination of teaching and research—is a German invention. Dartmouth’s German Studies curriculum appeals to a wide range of interests. German majors have pursued careers in business, engineering, finance, law, journalism, government service, medicine, and the sciences, as well as in art, literature, philosophy, music, and film. Non-majors have also found that their knowledge of German complements fields like architecture, economics, government, history, engineering, and computer science. No matter their future, Dartmouth students have found that German Studies enriches their professional and personal lives. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Philosophy Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News A Philosopher Worries About the ‘Foundations of Things’ Students who major or minor in philosophy learn to follow complex lines of reasoning, expose presuppositions, weigh evidence, craft arguments, make objections and replies, offer creative answers to philosophical questions, and construct independent solutions to philosophical problems. The benefits of a philosophy major extend well beyond philosophy, as students go on to pursue careers in many areas, including law, medicine, finance, the arts, and academia. Dartmouth’s Philosophy Department offers an array of courses that reflects the diversity of philosophical topics and student interest in them. Introductory courses in topics like time travel, personhood, and puzzles of perception provide exciting points of entry for any student, and students who major in Philosophy work closely with professors to structure a major around their interests and coordinate their plans of study accordingly. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Religion Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Tracing the Roots of Africa’s Many Indigenous Religions Since religion is at the core of all cultures and societies, an objective understanding of the subject is a crucial component of a liberal arts education. The foundation of thought and inquiry that students gain in the study of religion has prepared them for post-collegiate lives in medicine, education, law, government, and a host of other academic and professional fields. Dartmouth’s Department of Religion offers courses on the major religions of the ancient and modern world, as well as courses on religion and ethics, the nature of religious belief and language, myth and ritual, women and religion, and many other topics on the intermediate and advanced seminar levels. The Department also offers a foreign study program at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland. Many students find that a major or modified major in religion is an excellent choice for a concentration in the liberal arts. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Russian Bachelor of Arts Russian is the language of Dostoevsky, Turgenev, Gorky, Tolstoy, Gogol, and Solzhenitsyn. It is useful for art history, business, diplomacy, engineering, humanities, law, philosophy, computer science, and religious studies majors, as well as for students of the natural sciences. The Russian Studies programs at Dartmouth provide students with a solid capability in the Russian language, as well as a familiarity with the literature and culture of Russia. The Standard Russian Major is for students interested in Russian literature and culture, or for those who seek mastery of the language. The Area Studies Major is for students wanting to learn Russian or work in international studies. The Minor in Russian explores language and literature without the requirements of a major, and the Minor in Russian Area Studies teaches students about literature and civilization without advanced language study. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Spanish and Portuguese Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News On the Menu: Empanadas and Learning Spanish is spoken by more than 300 million people around the world and more than 10% of the U.S. population. It is second only to Chinese among all of the world’s languages in total number of speakers. Portuguese is the native tongue of countries on four continents and is nearly as widely spoken as Spanish. Its impact on history, art, contemporary economics, and international relations is self-evident. Dartmouth’s Department of Spanish and Portuguese features a major, minor, and modified major in Hispanic Studies, Romance Studies, and Lusophone Studies. It also offers a major in Romance Studies, a modified major and minor in Lusophone Studies, and a minor in Hispanic and Lusophone studies. The Department also runs three levels of off-campus programs in Spanish and one in Portuguese and offers an honors thesis program with student funding available. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback