Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Toni Fabian Class of 2025 back Click to Close Bio Hi all! Welcome to my very public blogging page! I am Toni Fabian '25, the middle child of my family, from a small town in sunny Southern California. I plan to study economics and sociology. I am passionate about culture, educational equity, and social justice. I will be writing about all things Dartmouth, from the infamous FOCO cookies to the resources and opportunities offered here on campus. I am truly so excited to bring you along with me while I navigate my college journey! Academic Program Intended majors: Economics and Sociology; Intended minor: Human-Centered Design Favorite Thing Right Now Cranberry juice Hometown San Juan Capistrano, California Pronouns he/him About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Toni Fabian back Click to Close Toni's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallHanover, NH Favorite Class: ECON 1: The Price System: Analysis, Problems, and Policies Each week I was responsible for completing problem sets, quizzes, classwork, and discussion boards. Every week we related what we learned in class to the real world. For example, we read about food banks and their past struggles with efficiency. As a class, we discussed solutions and delved deeper by asking questions and collaborating with each other. I loved this class a lot because Dr. Petre made learning really fun and is so kind! I learned a lot of information ranging from different elasticities of demand and supply to the indicators of poverty. This class was awesome! WinterHanover, NH Favorite Class: HIST 07.28: Gender and Urban Transformation For my FYS (First-Year Seminar), I took a history course called Gender and Urban Transformation (9L slot). Our class discussions drew from primary sources and historical analyses that dabbled on gender and its intersection with race, sexuality, and class in the development of U.S. suburbs and cities. Essentially, we explored urbanization and suburbanization as a multi-gendered process. I developed my research skills as I drafted an annotated bibliography, book review essay, and prospectus on the Chicano Movement's impact in the realm of higher education from the 1960s to the present in California, Texas, and Chicago. I learned a ton, I am so happy that I took Professor Rabig's course! My Dartmouth Reflection: Year 1 Completed I am using this blog post as my final reflection on my first year at Dartmouth College! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 06/1/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts reflection First Year memories Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Reflection: Spring Term Week 8 I am writing this blog post as I enter week 9 of my spring term. The weather is so sunny, refreshing, and awesome (it reminds me a lot of the weather in California). I am dedicating this post as a reflection on my week 8. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/23/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Happiness California new experiences Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Advice from a Dartmouth '25 Now, I am wrapping up my first year at Dartmouth. After reflecting on my experience thus far, I want to offer some advice to prospective and admitted students. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/17/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts The Green culture Advice Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Reflection: Yellow Dandelions Currently, there are yellow dandelions growing up in front of the entrance of Wheeler Hall. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/8/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts campus life admitted students sun Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Dr. Petre Appreciation! As I am reflecting on my Dartmouth experience thus far, I want to dedicate this post to Dr. Petre. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/2/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts professor academics Economics Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Reflection: Spring Term Week 4 Hi everyone! I am writing this blog post as I finish up my fourth week of the spring term. I want to reflect on the experiences that I have had this week. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/24/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts housing self-care campus life Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter The Caribbean Carnival! I want to talk about a very important and special project that happened this past weekend. The Carnival: The Caribbean Experience took place at the Shabazz Center for Intellectual Inquiry. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/18/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts culture Spring A Day in the Life Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Spring Term Classes I want to spend some time talking about the classes that I am taking this spring term. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/15/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts academics Classes Spring Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter To Future '26s: Academics at Dartmouth? Please note that as you enter your first term at Dartmouth, you will transition into an entirely new landscape. However, there will be support and resources available to ensure that you are successful. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/10/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts academics Classes Admissions Advice Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter To Future '26s: Opportunities at Dartmouth? As I continue on with my Dartmouth journey, I want to discuss the many opportunities for growth offered here at Dartmouth College. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/8/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Opportunities Academic Resources campus life Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Pages 1 2 3 4 next last Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback