Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Teacher Education Teacher Education Shape the Next Generation Related Majors Download Brochure Apply Now Request Information Teachers make the future. You can make it brighter. Think about the teachers who've made a lasting impression on you. The ones who made learning fun. Who piqued your curiosity and set you on a quest for knowledge. Who helped you build confidence. Who believed in you. You can be that teacher. Great teachers start by being great learners, and you will be one at Oregon State University. We offer a variety of undergraduate and graduate programs to prepare teachers, counselors, community college administrators and other education leaders. This includes an innovative double degree program where you’ll earn one degree in education and a second in the field you want to teach. And as an Oregon State graduate, you’ll join an outstanding group of award-winning teachers, principals, superintendents, college faculty and administrators — people who are making a difference in students’ lives and strengthening communities. Get ready for what’s next. Whether you’re entering the classroom to teach or to learn, you should have a plan in mind. If you’re looking to teach, you’ll want to pursue a strong and varied academic program before college to prepare for your education studies. And if you want to teach at the high school level, you should take any courses that are available in the area you want to teach. Bring your career dreams a lot closer to reality. Oregon State’s education double degree program emphasizes preparing and licensing teachers for K-12 public school classrooms. But an education degree also opens doors to a range of careers involving teaching, advising or administering in school, community and business settings. You could be: A preschool teacher in a day care or business setting. An elementary, middle or high school teacher. A school counselor (after additional preparation in counselor education). An educator or outreach coordinator for a company, community or nonprofit. A bilingual education teacher working with students whose native language is not English. A director of an outdoor school, museum or summer camp. A university or school administrator. Prospective teachers learn a lot by getting out and teaching. Oregon State’s teacher education programs give you hands-on experience by putting you in public school classrooms where you will work with students under the guidance of professional teachers. Your First Year Start down the path to a brighter future. For teachers and other education professionals, it’s vital to have a broad and comprehensive base of knowledge. During your first year, you’ll complete education coursework and classroom experience, along with beginning courses in your area of interest. You’ll also develop critical thinking, communication and problem-solving skills through classes from Oregon State’s Baccalaureate Core — the physical and biological sciences, arts and humanities, mathematics, writing, fitness, cultural diversity and first-year orientation. In Oregon State's double-degree program, you’ll have an advisor in both the College of Education and in your primary degree area. Get off to a good start by meeting with an advisor as you plan your first-year program — and at regular intervals after that. There are many paths to becoming a teacher. We’ll help you find yours. Good teachers know how to learn. Some ideas to get started: Work with children and youth. Get a job in an after-school club, volunteer to coach, read to children in a library, work as a counselor for an outdoor school, serve as a tutor or teacher’s aide, or join other activities where you can lead children and youth. Diversify your knowledge. Gain insight about other cultures, countries and languages. Study a language so you can communicate more effectively with students and parents as a teacher. Develop your leadership skills. Join leadership or student government, start a club, organize a community fundraiser or participate in schoolwide activities. Stay curious — about everything. Teachers may be called upon to teach many subjects, including reading, math, languages, science and art. Middle and high school teachers usually teach only one or two subjects, but you should participate in activities that build your knowledge about the subjects you are most passionate about. Talk with your favorite teachers. Find out what they like about their job, what challenges they face and what advice they can offer to help you prepare for your career. orange_calc_icon.gif In Oregon State's innovative double-degree program, you'll earn one degree in education and a second in the field you want to teach. After graduation, you’ll be qualified to apply for a teaching license at one or more of the following levels: Early Childhood Education (age 3-grade 4) Elementary Education (grades 3-8) Middle School (grades 5-9) High School (grades 9-12) If you choose to teach at the middle or high school levels, you can choose any one of the following secondary teaching endorsement areas: Biology Chemistry Family and Consumer Sciences Health Integrated Science Language Arts (English) Mathematics Physics Social Studies Oregon State also offers graduate-level programs in agriculture, elementary education, language arts, mathematics, music, science and social studies and physical education. All College of Education students may elect to pursue their English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) or ESOL-bilingual (Spanish) endorsements along with their subject endorsement. Connect with us and we'll send you more information Loading... 2col-teaching-becerra-900x507.jpg Multiple scholarships are available. Be sure to apply. Get some help paying for college with a variety of university-wide and departmental scholarships. Most scholarships are awarded based on information in the Oregon State application, but others require separate applications, such as our OSU ScholarDollars portal. The deadline to apply for university scholarships is Feb. 1. Be sure to check with your college and department on the deadlines for other scholarships. Apply Now. In addition, the College of Education has an extensive scholarship program; visit education.oregonstate.edu for more information. Put yourself out there. Oregon State offers a resource-rich environment that encourages you to take advantage of opportunities like the Honors College and study abroad programs. You’ll even have opportunities to work with public school students through multiple classes and volunteer programs. Research lets you discover and solve. Like internships, research experience can give you an advantage when applying to graduate and professional programs. In most health areas, you’ll have opportunities to make real contributions to faculty and graduate students’ research projects. You may also develop and pursue your own research addressing local, national and international health concerns. Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram