Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Rural and Small Town Students Brown University recognizes the academic contributions and valuable perspectives that students from rural and small town high schools add to our community. Rural and Small Town Students Brown University recognizes the academic contributions and valuable perspectives that students from rural and small town high schools add to our community. Brown University brings together talented students from every part of the country. We feel strongly that where you grow up does not define your potential, and that the different perspectives students bring to Brown are essential to our community. As the number of rural and small town students on campus continues to grow, we want to make sure you have the resources needed to learn more about Brown and imagine what your college experience in Rhode Island might look like. It doesn’t matter whether anyone else in your high school has attended or even applied to Brown; every student who comes to campus will be exploring new academic opportunities, broadening their horizons and discovering new ways of thinking about the world. We hope these resources will help you get a better sense of all that Brown has to offer. Fly-in Program Brown was the first school in the country to offer a fly-in program specifically designed for rising seniors from rural and small town communities. Brown brings together students from across the country for a college prep boot camp that includes a mock interview, an essay writing workshop, a financial aid presentation, and advice for applying to highly selective colleges. During the program, students tour campus, attend faculty lectures, meet current Brown students, stay in our residence halls, and eat in our cafeterias. The best thing about the program is that Brown covers the entire cost of the program, including the student’s flight, transportation between campus and the airport, meals during the program, and overnight accommodations. Connect with Us You can learn more about Brown through our virtual tour, recorded information session, and virtual events. Have questions? Connect with our students by emailing askastudent@brown.edu or the admission officer who will read your application. Don’t be a stranger. We want to hear from you. Join our mailing list to stay updated on everything related to Brown admissions. Resources Application Checklist How to Apply Degree Programs & Academic Fields Tuition & Aid Frequently Asked Questions Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Rural and Small Town Students Open details for Rural and Small Town Students Bookmark this Page