Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Tour Visit Apply × Close Menu Affordability at TU Apply Apply First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Graduate Applicants Law Applicants Other Students Credit By Exam Financial Aid Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Free Application for Federal Student Aid Visit Campus Visit Campus Academic Webinars Plan Your Individual Visit Preview TU Group Visits University Ambassadors Area Hotels Directions to Campus Maps Explore Tulsa Virtual Tour Special Programs Special Programs Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars Student Life Student Life International Student Services Housing & Dining Student Organizations Campus Recreation Career Services Health Center Student Accessibility New Student Programs Office of Student Affairs Find Your Admission Counselor Request Information Quick Links News Events Calendar Maps Athletics Contact TU Information For... Future Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Veteran Students Undergraduate Students International Students Graduate Students Law Students Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How do I interview for admission? Where is the new student checklist? How do I schedule a visit? What majors are offered? How much does TU cost? How can I transfer to TU? Close Search Link to site home page Office of Admission > Apply > Funding For First-Time College Students Funding For First-Time College Students Apply FAFSA Grants Outside Scholarships Presidential Scholarship Net Price Calculator Academic Scholarships for Freshmen The TU Office of Admission is proud to award academic scholarships to students who have excelled in the classroom as high school students. Scholarship awards are typically based on a student’s grade point average, high school curriculum, and academic accomplishments. Due to limited ACT and SAT testing opportunities during the COVID-19 global pandemic, freshmen applicants for the spring 2022 and fall 2022 entry terms are not required to submit an official ACT or SAT test score for admission. Submission of an official score is optional. Verified test scores will be superscored if submitted. ACT/SAT scores will be evaluated in scholarship consideration if submitted, but will not impact the scholarship award negatively. 2022-23 Academic Scholarships Monetary value listed is per year and are average amounts . Meeting the standards listed on this scholarship table does not guarantee any level of scholarship. GPA to be considered Amount 4.0+ $21,000 3.4-3.99 $16,000 Under 3.39 $10,000 Applicants are automatically considered for these above-listed scholarships during the application for admission review process based on eligibility. As such, there is no separate application for TU’s academic scholarships with the exception of the Presidential Scholarship. Presidential Scholarship recipients are awarded full tuition for 8 semesters. Eligible students must have a 4.0 grade point average and must submit a separate application and resume when applying for the Presidential Scholarship. For more information, visit the Presidential Scholarship website. The University of Tulsa also offers need-based grants. Submission of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is required for consideration. Information can be found on TU’s Office of Financial Aid page. APPLY TO TU 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT