Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home First-Year Counselors First-Year Toggle navigation First-Year Menu Admissions How to Apply Deadlines & Fees What We're Looking For Decisions Cost & Aid Scholarships Academics Accelerated Credit Gap Year Info for Parents Info for Counselors Appeals Counselor Publications SSAR Welcome Counselors Decision Cohort Application & Materials Deadline Potential Decisions Decision Release Date Early Action *Florida Students Only October 15, 2022 Admit Defer to Regular Decision Deny December 15, 2022 Regular Decision *All students December 1, 2022 Admit Seminole Pathways Spring Transfer Admit Defer to Rolling Decision (excludes Early Action deferrals) Deny February 15, 2023 Rolling Decision *All students March 1, 2023 Admit Seminole Pathways Spring Transfer Admit Waitlist Deny Released on a rolling basis in early April ACT/SAT Information Requiring an ACT or SAT test score for admissions consideration is not an institutional choice. FSU, along with Florida's 11 other public universities, is subject to Florida Board of Governors admissions regulation 6.002 which requires first year students seeking admission to submit an ACT or SAT test score. We require all first year applicants to submit at least one ACT and/or SAT test score. Florida State does not require the optional ACT writing score or the optional SAT essay. FSU allows students to self-report their SAT and/or ACT scores through the Application Status Page. Since accuracy is critical, students must have a copy of their SAT/ACT score report(s) available to reference when self-reporting their scores. We recommend using your complete score report which can be found on your MyACT or CollegeBoard account. To complete this form, you must list at least one set of test scores, including all subscores. To reference your SAT subscores, please visit your CollegeBoard account and select Score Overview then Skills Insight. If admitted, students will be required to submit official score reports prior to enrollment at FSU. At least one test score must be submitted before the application deadline, but additional tests may be considered if provided by these dates: Decision Cohort Application & Materials Deadline Last Scores Considered Early Action *Florida Students Only October 15, 2022 November SAT (if scores are provided before December 1, 2022) Regular Decision *All students December 1, 2022 December ACT and SAT (if scores are provided before January 1, 2023) Rolling Decision *All students March 1, 2023 Released on a rolling basis in early April Top 20 Public University Florida State is ranked among the Top 20 public universities in the nation according to US News and World Report. 95% Retention Rate Florida State's first-year retention rate is among the Top 15 public universities in the nation. Number 18 Best Value Florida State was ranked No. 18 Best Value College in the Princeton Review's most recent annual rankings. Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Slate.org is a free tool that allows high school and independent counselors to view their students' application status. Counselors are also able to upload official transcripts and other documents through this portal. To register, visit Slate.org and click the registration link in the center of the page. The first counselor to register from a school will be the designated person to manage permissions for that specific school. For a video overview of how to register and manage your school's Slate.org profile, click here. Counselor Resources Academic Program Guide academic-guide.fsu.edu A-Z List of Majors & Minors Program Descriptions Academic Mapping Requirements Major Comparisons Florida Counseling Handbook The Florida Counseling for Future Education Handbook is a comprehensive academic advising resource made available annually by the Florida Department of Education to school counselors and advisors. The handbook provides information regarding: Middle and high school progression and promotion requirements Career planning Florida college readiness initiatives Acceleration mechanisms Diploma designations Credit-by-examinations Financial aid Postsecondary degree programs and requirements Contact List To receive our counselor newsletter, please join our contact list. Publications For more information, you may also view our counselor publications. College Fair Are you hosting a College Fair? Send your invitation to collegefairinfo@fsu.edu. Counselor Events Register for counselor events. The SSAR (Self-reported Student Academic Record) All first-year applicants must complete a SSAR except: Applicants who have not followed an academic curriculum patterned after the U.S. system - must submit official or certified copies of all secondary school records and/or examination results. This includes students who have attended an institution not patterned after the U.S. system for any length of time. All academic records not in English must be accompanied by a certified English translation. In addition, these credentials must be evaluated by a credential evaluation agency. We recommend a member of the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services or International Education Credential Services provided by the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. GED graduates - students must submit their official GED transcript, along with official partial high school transcript(s). The SSAR lists all courses and associated grades that have been attempted, or will be attempted, for high school and/or college credit. When creating their SSAR, students must have a copy of their high school transcript available to use as a reference to ensure their self-reported academic information is accurate. Students create their SSAR by logging in to the SSAR website. Once completed, they will be given a 32-character SSAR ID number which must be entered into the SSAR Field on the student's Application Status Check. For more information on the SSAR, please refer to our SSAR FAQ and How-To Videos. Honors Application To apply for the University Honors Program, on the admissions application students should select Yes to the question "Are you interested in applying to the University Honors Program?" By selecting Yes, the supplemental application will appear on the Application Status Check. For detailed instructions on how to complete your supplemental Honors Application, visit the Honors website. To be considered for the University Honors Program, you must complete the Honors Application by December 1, 2022. Meet Our Admissions Team The Office of Admissions maintains a social media presence on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, and YouTube where we share information, engage with the community, and offer customer support. Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Quick Links Seminole Tribe Land Acknowledgement College & Career Planning Tool Career Center Academic Program Guide FSU Highlights Apply Online Visit Us Publications Check Your Application Status Application Changes Form Residency Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Aspire TCC2FSU Program FSU-Panama City Campus The Graduate School Student Veterans Center Office of Accessibility Services Professional Licensure Transfer Student Services Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University.