Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Explore > The Forty Acres The Forty Acres The campus of The University of Texas at Austin, a sprawling urban oasis, is nicknamed the Forty Acres after the size of its original footprint. Academic Experience Our students receive a highly rated, world-class education and learn from the world’s top faculty, famous for everything from the invention of the lithium-ion battery (your smartphone says #thanks) to frequent contributions to the top national media publications and outlets. Student Organizations They build community in the form of more than 1,300 student organizations focused on everything from b-boying—that’s breakdancing, for the uninitiated—to eradicating cancer. Spirit and Athletics They let loose and find themselves in the spirit of Texas, and discover that frontiers have more to do with persistence, determination and grit than wagon trains and the Wild West. This is exemplified on the field, the court and the track, where cries of “Texas! Fight!” echo the same unwavering spirit in the face of adversity that saw “Gone to Texas” scrawled on doors across the country in the 19th century. History & Traditions Through the years and around the globe, our traditions bind us together as one Longhorn family — proud, ambitious and determined to change the world. Whether you’re a first-year student or a proud Texas Ex, all Longhorn faithful don burnt orange, raise their horns, and shout “Hook Em!” Freshmen are introduced to it all during our unique first-year experience. It starts the moment you’re admitted and continues during summer orientation, when you find your 360 Connection—a small group of other freshmen who share common interests, from involvement in a First-Year Interest Group to participation in a range of student-success programs. It culminates each fall with Longhorn Welcome, a series of free events ranging from Mooov-In, our massive move-in party, to Gone to Texas, a huge new-student welcome that takes place on the South Mall the night before classes commence. Quick Links Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Rankings Visit Campus Next: Back to Explore Go to The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022