Skip to content Undergraduate Admission Menu Search form Search term Discover Academics Student Life Diversity at Stanford Apply Afford Engage Gateways for... Admission Volunteers Counselors Parents Updates for applicants in response to COVID-19 » x Visit us virtually to learn more about academics, admission and student life. Join us for our virtual programming Explore the possibilities of a Stanford education as you map out your college journey. View our publications Tuition is covered for undergrads with family incomes below $150,000. Learn more about financial aid Look for Stanford in Your Area as admission officers hit the road to meet you! Register for an event Story 1 Story 2 Story 3 Previous Story Next Story Undergraduate Admission Calendar Transfer applicants JUN1 Student Reply Date Freshman applicants OCT15 Restrictive Early Action Application with Arts Portfolio NOV1 Restrictive Early Action Standard Application View All Deadlines Announcements Undergraduate Admission Office Early Closure on May 27th The Stanford Undergraduate Admission Office will be open on Friday, May 27th, from 8am with an early closure of 3pm in observance of the Memorial Day holiday weekend. Regular business hours will resume on Tuesday, May 31st. Transfer Decisions were released on May 11 Admission decisions for transfer applicants are available in the Stanford portal as of Wednesday, May 11 at 4:00 p.m. (PDT). See details If you are having difficulty logging in to your portal, please reset your credentials by selecting "Forgot Your Password?" from the login page. Updated testing policy for Fall 2023 applicants For both the current 2021–22 admission cycle and the following 2022–23 cycle, Stanford will not require ACT or SAT scores for first-year or transfer applicants. We recognize the ongoing challenges created by the COVID-19 pandemic, including limited access to admission testing worldwide, and as a result, we are extending this year's test optional policy. See details Stanford is committed to a holistic review of all candidates. We consider the vast array of information provided in and with each student’s application, whether that information includes test scores or not. Students may continue to self-report test scores in their application if they would like. Applications without test scores will not be at a disadvantage. We urge students not to jeopardize their health or well-being to take future sittings of non-required tests. The NCAA Eligibility Center has announced a standardized testing policy for students who intend to play NCAA Division I or II sports starting in the 2022–23 academic year. “Students who initially enroll full time during the 2021–22 or 2022–23 academic years and intend to play NCAA Division I or II athletics will not be required to take a standardized test to meet NCAA initial-eligibility requirements.” ‘Regulation has to be part of the answer’ to combating online disinformation, Barack Obama said at Stanford event Former U.S. President Barack Obama delivered a keynote address on campus yesterday about how information is created and consumed, and the threat that disinformation poses to democracy. Read More in the Stanford Report Quick Links Frequently Asked Questions Register for a virtual visit Explore academic majors Calculate tuition costs Check application status Watch Video Follow @EngageStanford Programs Virtual Admission Events Virtual Campus Visits Publications Stanford Preview Stanford Viewbook Join the Mailing List FAQs Contact Us Engage with Us Stanford complies with the Jeanne Clery Act and publishes crime statistics for the most recent three-year period. View the full report. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.