Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission U.S. Military Veterans Brown values the extraordinary talents, experiences and diversity that veterans bring to campus. Sub Navigation In This Section Eligibility Requirements Academic Opportunities Application Details Financial Aid Housing and Dining Community and Support U.S. Military Veterans Brown values the extraordinary talents, experiences and diversity that veterans bring to campus. Veterans and currently serving military personnel are highly encouraged to apply via Brown’s Veterans Application, regardless of their year of high school graduation or any college credits earned to date. In appreciation of your service, there is no application fee. Brown is a proud college partner of Service to School's VetLink Program, which provides free application mentoring and networking to veterans. We are also a longstanding partner of the Marine Corps Leadership Scholar Program (LSP), which assists Marines intending to pursue their undergraduate degree at highly selective institutions. As part of our initiative to double our enrollment of undergraduate student veterans, Brown has made the following policy commitments applicable to all U.S. military service members and veterans: A new, veteran-friendly application that allows applicants to highlight their military experience and has no application fee. Test-optional policy for standardized test scores (SAT or ACT). Brown continues to support an unlimited number of eligible undergraduate Yellow Ribbon recipients. Financial aid packages will replace all family contributions with scholarship funds and boost Yellow Ribbon scholarship awards. This will eliminate all out-of-pocket costs toward undergraduate tuition and fees. We consider all prospective students who have served in the U.S. Armed Forces on a need-blind basis. This eliminates any consideration of an applicant’s ability to pay tuition from admission decisions. Start the Veterans Application Create an account and start the Veterans Application here. The application is available in October for prospective entrance in the fall of the following year. The application deadline is March 1. APPLY Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search U.S. Military Veterans Open details for U.S. Military Veterans Bookmark this Page