Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Visits and Events Experience Oregon State Visits and Events In-Person Tours Live Virtual Tours and Events 24/7 Virtual Access If you are planning on attending an in-person event, please review the Oregon State proof of vaccination requirement for university events. Corvallis, One of the Best College Towns Corvallis Visits Start at the Welcome Center Reading about Oregon State is only half of the journey. Connect with staff and student ambassadors to learn more. The Oregon State University Welcome Center is located on the first floor of the Beth Ray Center for Academic Support. We offer a variety of on-campus experiences including campus tours, campus group visits, and information sessions. We’ll also help you get connected with academic tours/sessions when you come to campus. Make a daily visit/tour reservation About Corvallis Traveling to Corvallis Virtual Tours and Events Even with the campus opening again, we’re still here for you virtually if you can’t make it to Corvallis. There are live campus and college virtual tours, academic information sessions, and campus life presentations available. Learn about Oregon State and then ask one of our staff or ambassadors your questions. See the full schedule Oregon State On Demand With school, work, and sleep, schedules can be full. If you don’t have time to attend a live event, we have a variety of virtual options you can access at any time. There are walking tours, 360-degree campus tours, and archived presentations to help you learn more at your convenience. Check out a virtual visit campus-view-900x507 Prospective Student Events Oregon State has opened its doors and admissions advisors are traveling again. We’re looking forward to meeting you at one of our recruitment events this fall. Visit us on campus at a Beaver Open House. You’ll also find us at high schools, college fairs and throughout the western states on our Destination Beaver Nation Tour. Get the latest dates class-of-2023-900x507 Admitted Student Events Welcome to Oregon State! It’s time to get excited about joining the Beaver family. Admitted students are encouraged to attend Orange & Black Days in Corvallis and OSU Nights around the state. Start getting connected Upcoming Events at Oregon State If you’re visiting our Corvallis campus, check out what other university events might be going on around campus on your visit day. Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram