Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Undergraduate Admissions Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy First-Year ApplicantsIt all starts here Transfer ApplicantsEasy transition Check Application Status Costs & Aid Apply for Aid Financial Aid Eligibility Costs to Attend Financial Aid Calculator Value of a Cornell Education Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Facts Frequently Asked Questions Cornell A-Z Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections You are here Home » Apply » What Cornell Looks For print share Facebook Twitter What Cornell Looks For Whether you're a first-year or transfer applicant, there’s no magic formula that guarantees you will (or won’t) get into Cornell. Yes, what you may have heard is true: Admission to Cornell is highly selective, with approximately 10% of applicants admitted each year. Access and affordability are extremely important to us, as are diversity and inclusion. Our admission process is highly individualized, and we spend lots of time evaluating whether you’ll be a good fit for the culture and philosophy of our university. The result is an incredibly rich mix of students, which is one of the best things about Cornell. So what do we look for? Your Intellectual Potential Have you challenged yourself with the highest-level courses? How have you demonstrated your passion for learning? Your Character Honesty. Open-mindedness. Initiative. Empathy. Your values are important to Cornell. Do your application essays and recommendations reflect your strongest personal attributes? Your Involvement Extracurricular activities. Community involvement. Workplace experience. Leadership. What special talents or interests have you developed? Your Reasons for Choosing Us Whether you’ve decided on a major or not, how do you plan on taking advantage of the exceptional learning environment at Cornell? Why is it the right place for you? Cornell fully supports equality of opportunity. No one is denied admission because of race, religion, national or ethnic origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, or disability. Essays Students also frequently ask us what we are looking for in the application essays they submit. Here are tips to consider: Tip #1: Give careful thought to the questions asked, but don’t try to write the answers that you think we want to hear; give us the answers that tell us about you. Tip #2: In your essay, help us understand your thoughts and feelings about something that is important to you. We are interested in the topic you choose, how you develop your idea, and how well you express yourself. Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy Application Deadlines Contact Us From your first questions about Cornell to the completion of your application, the Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you find the information you need. Website Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. University Privacy Statement Undergraduate Admissions Office Cornell University 410 Thurston Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 admissions@cornell.edu Tel: 607.255.5241 Fax: 607.255.0659 © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment Admitted Students