Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us Academics How to Apply Tuition & Aid Student Life Connect About Us Search Admission Process Transfer Applicants International Applicants DACA Financial Aid Academics Student Life Veterans Campus Visit Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Admission Process Transfer Applicants International Applicants DACA Financial Aid Academics Student Life Veterans Campus Visit About Us Academics How to Apply Financial Aid Student Life Visit University of Miami Undergraduate Admission About Us FAQs International Applicants FAQs AAA International Applicants FAQs Admission Process Transfer Applicants International Applicants DACA Financial Aid Academics Student Life Veterans Campus Visit GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Open All Tabs Who is considered an international student? For purposes of applying for admission to the University of Miami or for financial aid, anyone who is not a citizen or a permanent resident of the United States is considered a foreign or international student. If you are graduating from a high school outside the United States, regardless of your citizenship, your application will be reviewed by the Admission Committee within the context of your secondary school. What are the admission requirements for international students? For a list of our first-year admission requirements for international students, please click here. For a list of our transfer admission requirements for international students, please click here. What documentation is required for students applying from my country? Visit our Eligibility Requirements by Country page for more information. These requirements are intended only as a guide and are subject to further qualitative evaluation. Can I come to UM to improve my English? Yes, for information on studying in UM’s Intensive English Program (IEP), visit the IEP page or email iep@miami.edu. What are UM’s English language proficiency requirements? Students whose native language is not English, including those applying to transfer from U.S. institutions, are required to submit the TOEFL and/or IELTS results. Visit our English Language Proficiency Requirements page for more information. Do you offer conditional admission? No. The Office of Undergraduate Admission does not grant conditional admission; however, academically qualified applicants for undergraduate admission who do not meet the English proficiency requirement may be offered admission for the following year provided that they complete level five of the University of Miami Intensive English Program within one year. To be considered, applicants must submit official TOEFL or IELTS results during the application process. Can the English language proficiency requirement be waived? If English is not your native language, the TOEFL and/or IELTS requirement may be waived if you meet one of the following conditions: Obtain a score of 650 or higher on the redesigned SAT evidence-based reading and writing section (administered beginning in 2016). Obtain a score of 27 or higher on the ACT English section. Obtain a grade of A or B in Advanced Placement (AP) or International Baccalaureate (IB) English course(s). Graduate from or attend at least three years at a high school in the United States. Successfully complete Level 5 of the University’s Intensive English Program (IEP). IB English A1 Standard level (SL) or Higher Level (HL) examination with a predicted score of 4 or higher. IB English B HL examination with a predicted score of 5 or higher. Grade of C or better on the IGCSE/GCE “O” or “A” Level in English language. Graduate from or attend a high school outside the United States, including the final three years, in which the medium of instruction is English. Earn 30 or more postsecondary credits (including 6 credits in English Composition with a grade of B or higher) at a regionally accredited college or university in the United States. Does UM need the CAPE (Caribbean Advanced Placement Examination) for admission? We require at least CAPE I results for admission consideration. All official CAPE results for admission and transfer credit consideration must be sent directly to the Office of Undergraduate Admission. For more information, visit our Transferring Credits page. Is the ACT and/or SAT exam required for international first-year applicants? ACT and/or SAT scores are optional for international students. Applicants to the School of Architecture who do not submit test scores must instead submit a portfolio. All applicants to the Frost School of Music must audition as part of the evaluation process, regardless of whether or not they submit test scores. When is the deadline for TOEFL and/or IELTS test score submissions? Applicants must submit their official test scores by the appropriate deadline. Please review the first-year or transfer admission requirements for more information. For how long is a TOEFL and/or IELTS score valid? TOEFL and/or IELTS scores are valid for two years. My school does not have a counselor. Who should complete the Common Application Secondary School Report? If your school does not have a counselor, a school administrator may complete the School Report. Should I send photocopies of certificates and awards? Please do not send us copies of certificates, awards, or news clippings. Simply list your activities and awards on the Common Application. Do international students have to pay more tuition than domestic students? No, UM tuition and fees are the same for both domestic and international students. Visit our Cost of Attendance page for more information. Do you offer scholarships to international students? All students who apply to UM are automatically considered for our merit scholarships regardless of their citizenship status. Do you offer financial aid to international students? Yes, the University of Miami offers international students both merit and need-based aid. If you are applying for need-based financial aid, you must submit the CSS Profile by the stated deadlines. For more information, please review the checklist on our Applying for Aid page. The University of Miami is need-aware for first-year and transfer undergraduate-seeking applicants. This means that, for a portion of applicants, the Admission Committee will consider that student’s ability to cover the cost of attendance without the need for financial aid. UM is committed to meeting the full demonstrated financial need of all admitted students, regardless of citizenship. All non-US citizens/non-US permanent residents who apply for admission to UM must submit an International Financial Certification Form, which can be accessed via the applicant portal after you have submitted your application. Do you award college credits for A-Level, Cambridge Pre-U, and CAPE exam results? Yes, UM will only award credit once the official A-Level, AS-Level, CAPE, and Cambridge Pre-U exam certificates have been issued. Preliminary results, Statement of Results, and unofficial photocopies cannot be used to grant credit. Once you have received your official A-Level, AS-Level, CAPE, or Cambridge Pre-U exam certificate, submit the original exam certificate to the Office of Undergraduate Admission. Visit our Transferring Credits page for more information. When will you issue my I-20 form? The I-20 form will be issued to admitted international students within a minimum of 10 business days from the date that the following items are completed, submitted, and verified by the Office of Undergraduate Admission. Nonrefundable enrollment deposit SEVIS Transfer Form, if applicable Bank or government sponsorship letter (Sample Letter) or online bank statement Photocopy of the biographical page of your current valid passport Can international students work on campus? Yes, students with an F-1 visa are generally permitted to work part-time on the premises of the institution that issued their currently valid I-20 form while they are attending that institution and maintaining their F-1 status. F-1 students are permitted to work part-time for a maximum of 20 hours weekly. Contact ISSS at isss@miami.edu for more information. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Undergraduate Admission 1306 Stanford Drive, Suite 1210 Coral Gables, FL 33146 TEL: 305-284-6000 TEL: 305-284-6000 FAX: 305-284-2507 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search myUM Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram tiktok Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback