Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Site Navigation Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Excellence Academics Student Life Location Next Steps Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Request Info Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Why UO Main navigation Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Request Info Main navigation Excellence Academics Student Life Location Next Steps Why UO Accessible version of an animated infographic with clickable links about Skinner Butte Park. We are Change makers and big dreamers, with our hands in the dirt and our eyes on the cosmos. We're solutions oriented and community focused, resourceful and collaborative, and we don't shy away from a difficult problem. We believe In the power of stories and of data, in upending the conventional while learning from our history. We appreciate our commonalities and celebrate our differences, and we value those who challenge our assumptions. We are Ducks Honoring Native Peoples and Lands The University of Oregon is located on Kalapuya Ilihi, the traditional homelands of the Kalapuya people. Following treaties between 1851 and 1855, Kalapuya people were dispossessed of their indigenous homeland by the United States government and forcibly removed to the Coast Reservation in Western Oregon. Today, their descendants are citizens of the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde Community of Oregon and the Confederated Tribes of the Siletz Indians of Oregon, and continue to make important contributions in their communities, at the UO and across the land now referred to as Oregon. Accessible version of an interactive pictorial view of the University of Oregon campus. Ducks Expand Horizons 1900s 1907 Esther Pohl Lovejoy is appointed the first woman to direct a department of health in a major US city. 1922 Lila Acheson Wallace cofounds Reader's Digest 1942 Minoru Yasui protests wartime curfews. His activism leads to reparations for Japanese-Americans in 1988. 1962 Edwin Coleman II is hired. His work leads to the creation of the ethnic studies department. 1970 Bill Bowerman uses a waffle iron to fashion the first prototype of the Nike Waffle Trainer. 1981 Biologist George Streisinger clones the first vertebrate: a zebrafish. 2000s 2002 Tinker Hatfield's iconic "O" design is adopted as the official UO logo. 2007 Ann Curry wins an Emmy for her reporting on the Darfur crisis with NBC Nightly News. 2015 A team of physicists including UO researchers detect a gravitational wave for the first time. 2018 Mustafa Kasubhai becomes the first Muslim-American seated on a US federal court. Plus So Much More Alumni Stories Undergraduate Research Symposium Accessible version for interactive content with more information about the Knight Library, and a map to the library. Why UO Next: Excellence » Excellence » Academics » Student Life » Location » Next Steps » DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Admissions 1217 University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403 P: 800-BE-A-DUCK Text: 541-346-3201 F: 541-346-5815 Contact Us Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Vimeo Visit us on Instagram Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.