Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Income Documentation One of the factors considered in evaluating financial aid eligibility is your family's income. Here are some tips for submitting the correct information with your aid application. Submit the correct year's income documentation Financial aid operates on a prior-prior system—this means you should submit your parents' federal tax return for the year that is two years prior to the year you plan to enter college. If you plan to apply to the class of 2026, for example, you will enter Princeton in fall 2022 and should submit your parents' 2020 federal tax return. This is also the information you will report on the PFAA and the FAFSA. Upload your documentation directly to your financial aid portal Once you submit the PFAA, you'll be able to upload tax documents. This is the best way to submit your documentation to our office. The tax return upload should include the Form 1040 federal income tax return, all schedules, W-2 statements, and Schedule K-1s, if applicable. Be sure to report nontaxed income In addition to your parents' income reported on the federal tax return, you will also report nontaxed income. The most common forms of nontaxed income are contributions to tax-deferred savings plans, child support received from another household, VA benefits, and housing allowances. What if my parent did not file a U.S. federal income tax return? If your parent is a U.S. citizen and is not required to file a U.S. federal income tax return, a Non-Filer Statement must be uploaded after you submit the PFAA. Sources of income should be listed on this form with supporting documentation (e.g., W-2 statements, disability benefit statements) for each source. If your parent is a Canadian citizen, the eight-page T1 General for 2020 must be uploaded after you submit the PFAA. If your parent files a tax return in their country of residence, both the original and a full certified and translated copy of the return (if not in English) should be uploaded after you submit the PFAA. If your parent is not required to file a tax return, a Non-Filer Statement must be submitted in lieu of tax information. Sources of income (e.g., interest, employment income, real estate income) should be listed on this form with supporting documentation for each source. Confidentiality Policy The financial aid office uses all available measures to hold sensitive data in strict confidence. Electronic material is protected with current technological safeguards to prevent unauthorized access. Paper records are similarly held in safe storage, and disposed when necessary in a proper manner such as shredding. There are strict limitations on sharing information with parties other than students and their immediate family members. Organizations outside the University must obtain permission from the student and provide a signed release before receiving aid records. Princeton’s confidentiality policy assures families that their financial aid information will be used only for its intended purpose. Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746