Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Tour Visit Apply × Close Menu Affordability at TU Apply Apply First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Graduate Applicants Law Applicants Other Students Credit By Exam Financial Aid Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Free Application for Federal Student Aid Visit Campus Visit Campus Academic Webinars Plan Your Individual Visit Preview TU Group Visits University Ambassadors Area Hotels Directions to Campus Maps Explore Tulsa Virtual Tour Special Programs Special Programs Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars Student Life Student Life International Student Services Housing & Dining Student Organizations Campus Recreation Career Services Health Center Student Accessibility New Student Programs Office of Student Affairs Find Your Admission Counselor Request Information Quick Links News Events Calendar Maps Athletics Contact TU Information For... Future Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Veteran Students Undergraduate Students International Students Graduate Students Law Students Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How do I interview for admission? Where is the new student checklist? How do I schedule a visit? What majors are offered? How much does TU cost? How can I transfer to TU? Close Search Link to site home page Office of Admission > International Admission > International Undergraduate Application Checklist International Undergraduate Application Checklist INTERNATIONAL ADMISSION International Undergraduate Application Checklist Transcript Evaluation English Proficiency Requirement Tuition, Fees and Expenses International Student Scholarships Transfer Credits Frequently Asked Questions TU is making every effort to be as flexible as possible with application requirements due to the COVID-19 pandemic. International Admission has posted some frequently asked questions about our COVID-19 policies that may help you. If you have further questions, contact your admission counselor or email international@utulsa.edu. Required Materials An International Application for Admission. TU also accepts the Common App. Copy of transcripts from all secondary/high school and university-level study. Certified document by document evaluation of official high/secondary school transcripts submitted through WES, Spantran, or an approved credential evaluation service. Certified course by course evaluation of transcripts from all colleges/universities attended submitted through WES, Spantran, or an approved credential evaluation service. Students with more than 48 or more academic credit hours are not required to supply secondary school documents. Official IGCSE, A-Level, International Baccalaureate Diploma Program, or Advanced Placement results if taken. Evidence of English proficiency. Certified copies are only acceptable when original transcripts are unavailable. Do not send TU your only original transcript because we are unable to return it to you. Recommended Materials Counselor or teacher recommendation letters Personal essay SAT or ACT scores Send your scores directly from the testing agency using the ETS (TOEFL/SAT) institution code: 6883 or the ACT institution code: 3444. Interview – 2 options available: Personal interview with TU admission representative – Connect with us via phone, Zoom, WeChat, or WhatsApp. Contact international@utulsa.edu to request your interview. InitialView – We accept interviews completed through InitialView. InitialView records interviews and collects a short writing sample for international applicants to US universities. Immigration Materials Students requiring a student visa will need to submit: Confirmation of Financial Resources. Proof of financial support for 1 year of study and living expenses must be on file at The University of Tulsa before an I-20 for F-1 student visa support is issued. A photocopy of the personal data page of your passport. For more information about visas and immigration, visit International Student Services! Sponsored Students If you will be sponsored by a government or agency, your sponsors must provide a signed and/or certified, official letter dated within the last 12 months that indicates that the sponsor will cover all costs. TU will also accept letters issued for admission purposes only. If you intend to have your spouse and/or children accompany you, the sponsorship letter should also mention coverage of your dependents. If the sponsorship letter does not include your spouse and children, you must provide evidence of sufficient financial means of support for dependents on your Confirmation of Financial Resources. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT