This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Apply Visit Give Students Parents Alumni Faculty & Staff BackBackClose Home About BC About BC Admission Academics Campus Life Research Jesuit, Catholic Undergraduate Admission DirectoryA to Z Listing Close Apply Visit Give Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Current Students Undergraduate Admission home Apply Organization and High School Visits If you are a counselor at a community-based organization or high school, we invite you to schedule a campus tour for your students this summer! Campus tours are only offered for groups of 10 or more members of students in their sophomore, junior and senior years of high school only. Our visits include an information session and tour. These two hour visits, led by current BC students, will introduce your students to our community, academic buildings, and several academic, social, and spiritual resources to help them envision being a student at Boston College. Attendees will be encouraged to ask questions. Summer group visits begin on Tuesday, June 27th and will be available through Thursday, August 12th. Advance registration is required. We will not be able to accommodate walk-in visitors. To prioritize the health and safety of our staff, visitors, and the University community, we have incorporated new visitor policies and guidelines. This includes mandatory proof of vaccination against COVID-19. Please review these policies in advance of scheduling your visit to campus. Please register below and help us learn more about your group. All forms must be completed at least two weeks prior to your requested date. We will reply to your request within 10 business days. Legend: Available Unavailable / Filled Not Scheduled Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3100 Academic Calendar Agora Portal Athletics Apply Visit Give Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Google Plus Accessibility Emergency Maps Directories Contact Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College