Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Science and Natural Resources Science and Natural Resources Investigate Everything Related Majors Download Brochure Apply Now Request Information Following your curiosity about the natural word can be the first step toward addressing the big challenges that face us all. Dare to ask the hard questions. Test assumptions. Unravel the inner workings and interrelationships of all living things. Then fit the pieces together to forge solutions. With nationally recognized science and natural resources programs, Oregon State University can prepare you to take better care of the world we depend ons. You’ll work on projects that have real impacts on food safety, environmental protection, alternative energy sources, sustainable ecosystems and other topics. You'll also learn how to relate scientific research to important public policy issues, moving from discover to action. Are you ready to get to the edgo of what's known? We'll show you how to keep going. Get ready for what’s next. To prepare for study in science and natural resources, you should have a strong academic background. You’ll benefit from four years of high school mathematics, including the most advanced courses available, along with coursework in biology, chemistry and physics. You should also pursue a well-balanced background in the social sciences, arts and humanities, including English. And as with most fields today, it’s important to have solid computer skills. If you have questions about preparing for university-level study in these fields, contact the advising staff in the program you’re considering. Connect with us and we'll send you more information Loading... 2col-mthood-basinger-900x507.jpg Internships give your career a head start. Many programs require or encourage on-the-job experience. Increasingly, graduate and professional schools prefer students who have worked in the field. Your professors, department and college, as well as the Oregon State Career Development Center, can help you apply for an internship. Multiple scholarships are available. Be sure to apply. Get some help paying for college with a variety of university-wide and departmental scholarships. Most scholarships are awarded based on information in the Oregon State application, but others require separate applications, such as our OSU ScholarDollars portal. The deadline to apply for university scholarships is Feb. 1. Be sure to check with your college and department on the deadlines for other scholarships. Apply Now. Learn beyond the classroom. Oregon State offers a resource-rich environment that encourages you to combine your studies in science and natural resources with opportunities like the Honors College and study abroad programs. You’ll find challenging, unique experiences that support your academic, professional and personal growth — and have fun, too. Discover, test and solve through research. Each year, more than 2,000 undergraduates participate in research with professors and graduate students, examining real issues that confront society today. Research projects are especially valuable if you plan to attend graduate school or if your career will involve laboratory work. Check with your major professors about available research opportunities. Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram