Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Undergraduate Office of Admissions Menu Search Log In Why Nebraska Majors Career Connections Social Connections Academic Life Visit Nebraska Visit Lincoln Apply Admissions Requirements Enrollment Deposit Cost & Aid Scholarship Statement Nebraska Promise Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes Contact Us Information for… First Generation Students High Ability Students International Students LGBTQA+ Students Native American Students Nebraska Now School Counselors Students with Disabilities Transfer Students Undergraduate Online Programs Underrepresented Minorities Veteran and Active Military Students Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Admissions Cost & Aid Cost & Aid Find Your Value As Husker alum Warren Buffett says, “price is what you pay; value is what you get.” What you'll pay at Nebraska is among the lowest tuition in the Big Ten. What you'll get depends on how you want to create the future—experience learning hands on, make new friends, give back to the world, engage with challenging coursework and prepare for your career or graduate school. Tuition, Fees & Housing Costs Resident Out-of-State Resident Tuition $259 per credit hour What's the Breakdown? Icon Label Cost Book Icon Tuition: $7,770 Tag Icon Fees: $2,102 House Icon Housing & Meal Plan: $12,140 Total: $22,012* Nebraska is a state university, so residents and nonresidents are charged different tuition rates. Find Out if You Qualify for Resident Tuition View the Residency Policy *This estimate assumes 15 hours per semester for two semesters and includes a standard double room with a 7-day unlimited meal plan based on 2021-22 rates. The estimate does not include books and supplies, transportation, or miscellaneous personal expenses. The Colleges of Business, Architecture and Engineering have differential tuition rates. See the estimated tuition cost for those colleges. Estimate your cost of attendance with the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid calculator. Nebraska Students: You May Qualify to Attend Tuition-Free We want to make sure all Nebraskans have access to a college education, and we don't want cost to get in the way. The Nebraska Promise program covers undergraduate tuition at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln for students who have a family income of $65,000 or less (Adjusted Gross Income/AGI). Learn More About Nebraska Promise Out-of-State Tuition $830 per credit hour What's the Breakdown? Icon Label Cost Book Icon Tuition: $24,900 Tag Icon Fees: $2,102 House Icon Housing & Meal Plan: $12,140 Total: $39,142* Nebraska is a state university, so residents and nonresidents are charged different tuition rates. Find Out if You Qualify for Resident Tuition View the Residency Policy *This estimate assumes 15 hours per semester for two semesters and includes a standard double room with a 7-day unlimited meal plan based on 2021-22 rates. The estimate does not include books and supplies, transportation, or miscellaneous personal expenses. The Colleges of Business, Architecture and Engineering have differential tuition rates. Click here to see the estimated tuition cost for those colleges. Estimate your cost of attendance with the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid calculator. Out-of-State Students: Estimate Your Scholarships in 30 Seconds We want to make Nebraska affordable for everyone. Enter your GPA and ACT/SAT score (if you have one) to check your eligibility. For the 2022-23 academic year, you can qualify for academic scholarships on the basis of your GPA alone, although we still invite you to submit a test score (we will award the highest scholarship possible). Estimate Your Scholarship Do You Qualify as a Resident for Tuition? Close Because the University of Nebraska–Lincoln is a state university, Nebraska residents will be billed resident tuition and out-of-state students will be billed out-of-state tuition. Use this calculator to determine if you qualify as a Nebraska resident for tuition purposes. Get Started Did you live in Nebraska for at least three years before graduating or receiving the equivalent of a high school diploma? Yes No Do you currently live in Nebraska? Yes No Have you established a home in Nebraska for 12 months or more AND did you primarily move here for reasons other than enrolling in a post-secondary institution. Yes No For federal income tax purposes, are you considered a dependent of a parent/legal guardian who lives in Nebraska? Yes No Are you married to a Nebraska resident? Yes No Did your spouse have an established home in Nebraska prior to the marriage? Yes No Are/were you (or your spouse or a parent/guardian) a member of the military? Yes No Are you (or your spouse or a parent/guardian) on active duty? Yes No Have you been assigned a permanent duty station in Nebraska, or is Nebraska your Home of Record? Yes No Are you (or your spouse or parent/guardian) a Military Veteran, and can you (or your spouse or parent/guardian) demonstrate objective intent to be a Nebraska Resident? Yes No Were you recruited to Nebraska for full-time employment because of your special talents or skills OR were you transferred to Nebraska by a business entity? (either or condition) Yes No Are you the spouse or dependent of someone who was recruited to Nebraska for full-time employment because of their special talents or skills, OR were they transferred to Nebraska by a business entity? (either or condition) Yes No Are you (or your spouse or parent/guardian) an active-duty member of the military with Nebraska as your (or their) Home of Record? Yes No Are you a member of one of the following Native American Tribes? Arapaho, Arikara, Cheyenne, Comanche, Crow, Dakota Sioux, Dhegihan, Hidatsa, Iowa, Jicarilla Apache, Kansa, Kickapoo, Kiowa, Lakota Sioux, Mandan, Missouria, Nakota Sioux, Northern Cheyenne, Omaha, Osage, Otoe, Pawnee, Ponca, Potawatomie, Quapaw, Sac and Fox, Santee Sioux, Southern Cheyenne or Winnebago Yes No Have you, in the last two years, attended University or a Nebraska state college as a resident for tuition purposes? Yes No Are you a permanent staff member of the University of Nebraska, one of the Nebraska state colleges or a community college in Nebraska with at least part-time employment? Yes No Are you the spouse or dependent of someone who is a permanent staff member of the University of Nebraska, one of the Nebraska state colleges or a community college in Nebraska with at least part-time employment? Yes No All Done! Based on your answers, you may qualify for Resident Tuition. If you've received a high school diploma (or its equivalent) in Nebraska, you likely qualify for resident tuition at Nebraska. Generally, dependents of Nebraska residents qualify for the resident tuition rate at the university. To confirm your residency status, submit the Application for Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes on the Profile tab in your MyRED account. Please look at the following residency categories for instructions: A: Legal Age or Emancipated Minor B: Dependent Minor C: Legal Age Dependent E: Asylee, Refugee or Permanent Resident Alien Generally, dependents of Nebraska residents qualify for the resident tuition rate at the university. To confirm your residency status, submit the Application for Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes on the Profile tab in your MyRED account. Please look at the following residency categories for instructions: B: Dependent Minor C: Legal Age Dependent People who are married to someone who was a Nebraska resident prior to the marriage generally qualify for the resident tuition at Nebraska. To confirm your residency status, submit the Application for Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes on the Profile tab in your MyRED account. Please look at residency category D for instructions. Active-duty military personnel, their spouses and their dependents generally qualify for resident tuition at Nebraska if they are stationed in, or if their Home of Record is Nebraska. To confirm your residency status, submit the Application for Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes on the Profile tab in your MyRED account. Please look at residency category G for instructions. Military veterans who have been off duty for three years or fewer, their spouse or dependents generally qualify for resident tuition at Nebraska if they establish Nebraska residence. To confirm your residency status, submit the Application for Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes on the Profile tab in your MyRED account. Please look at residency category M for instructions. If you (or your spouse or parent/guardian) have been recruited or transferred to work in Nebraska by an employer generally qualify for resident tuition at Nebraska. To confirm your residency status, submit the Application for Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes on the Profile tab in your MyRED account. Please look at residency category K for instructions. Members of many Native American tribes qualify for the resident tuition at Nebraska. To confirm your residency status, submit the Application for Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes on the Profile tab in your MyRED account. Please look at residency category J for instructions. If you (or your spouse or parent/guardian) have been recruited or transferred to work in Nebraska by an employer generally qualify for resident tuition at Nebraska. To confirm your residency status, submit the Application for Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes on the Profile tab in your MyRED account. Please look at residency category I for instructions. Staff members of the University, any Nebraska State College or any Nebraska Community College, along with their spouses and dependents generally qualify for resident tuition at Nebraska. To confirm your residency status, submit the Application for Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes on the Profile tab in your MyRED account. Please look at residency category F for instructions. If you'd like to review your residency status, please don't hesitate to contact us. Apply Today Based on your answers, you likely do not qualify for resident tuition. As an out-of-state student at Nebraska you may qualify for scholarships to help offset tuition. Use our scholarship estimator to determine which scholarships you might be eligible for. Estimate Your Scholarship Apply Today If you'd like to review your residency status, please don't hesitate to contact us. Left-Pointing Double Angle Quotation Mark Previous Navigation Back Restart The result displayed is not binding or official. View the Residency Policy. Estimate Your Scholarship Close First-time, full-time applicants who wish to start in Fall 2022 can qualify for scholarships with their GPA alone. We will always give you the best possible scholarship possible—based on either your GPA alone or the combination of your GPA and test score. Personal Status Select the State You Currently Live In? Required ... Alabama Alaska American Samoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Palau Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virgin Islands Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Check all that apply. I am a finalist in the National Merit scholarship program or the National Hispanic recognition program. I am an International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma or IB Career Programme candidate. I have a biological or adoptive parent who graduated from UNL, UNK, UNO or UNMC. Your Current High School Grade Point Average (GPA) GPA Score Required GPA Scale Required 4 Point 5 Point 6 Point 8 Point 12 Point 100 Point Your ACT or SAT Scores ACT Composite Score SAT Reading Score SAT Math Score Estimate My Scholarships! Loading Spinner With the exception of the Chancellor's Tuition scholarship, all nonresident scholarships are prorated if you enroll in fewer than 15 credit hours per term. This calculator applies only to students applying for the fall 2022 term who do not reside in the state of Nebraska and who are determined to be first-time first-year students by the Office of Admissions' admission and scholarship guidelines. Scholarships at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln are awarded based upon a student's academic profile. The academic profile may include but is not limited to: standardized test scores, rigor and quality of high school academic courses, class rank, cumulative and core grade point average (GPA), and school profile. The scholarship displayed is an estimate only; final decisions are made by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln's Scholarship Committee. For the most accurate scholarship information, please apply for admission by the designated scholarship deadlines. Contact the Office of Admissions for more information. College Pays Off Nebraska offers access to world-leading experts, state-of-the-art equipment and a network of driven people. The challenges you'll overcome and the experiences you'll have will set you up for a better career—and a better life. It's not just the money: Bachelor's degree holders in the U.S. receive the following benefits compared to high school graduates who did not attend college:* Earnings Annual earnings are about $32,000 higher. Lifetime earnings are about $625,000 higher. The likelihood of having a retirement plan through employment is 72% greater. Graph Arrow Trending Up Health The likelihood of having health insurance through employment is 47% higher. The likelihood of reporting health to be “very good” or “excellent” is 44% greater. Life expectancy at age 25 is seven years longer. Heart Icon Quality of Life The likelihood of being unemployed is 2.2 times lower. The incidence of poverty is 3.5 times lower. The likelihood of being happy is significantly higher. Star Icon *Source: Lumina Foundation Make the Most of Your Investment at Nebraska We want to help you stretch your strengths so you can reach your goals. Pick a path and explore what you'll get at Nebraska. Career Prep and Hands-on Learning Explore Career Connections Make New Friends and Make a Difference Explore Social Connections Engage with Big Ten Academics Explore Academic Life Paying for College Basics Part of finding your value is understanding the cost. While every college and university does it a little differently, the good news is, all the basics are the same. See How Paying for College Works Cost of Attendance While all colleges and universities handle scholarships and financial aid a little differently, the basic types of charges and awards are the same: Add: Billed by the University Plus Sign Tuition What's charged for your enrollment in a class. At Nebraska, we charge by credit hour. Plus Sign Fees Variable costs based on the classes you take, plus some general student fees that support student services, technology, the library, etc. Plus Sign Housing and Meal Plan Cost for your room and meals on campus. Not Billed by the University Plus Sign Books and Supplies Course materials like textbooks, lab safety equipment or art supplies. Plus Sign Travel and Personal Expenses Money you'll need to spend on yourself while you're in school. Equals Sign Cost of Attendance Your total cost to attend before scholarships and aid. Subtract: Financial Assistance to Reduce Your Cost Minus Sign University Scholarships Awards offered by university. At Nebraska, we offer scholarships for academic achievement, leadership, service and diversity enhancement. You do not need to pay these back. Minus Sign External Scholarships Scholarships you've earned on your own through outside agencies and are bringing to Nebraska. See External Scholarship Opportunities Minus Sign Financial Aid Grants Awards based on financial need offered by the state and federal government, other agencies or the university (you must file the FAFSA to be eligible); you do not need to pay these back. Equals Sign Net Cost of Attendance The price you pay after subtracting scholarships and financial aid from tuition, fees, housing and meal plan, books, travel and personal expenses. Additional Assistance Star Icon Student Loans If you need help meeting the net cost of attendance, there are low interest student loans available. Educational loans are a useful tool to pay for college, but we encourage you to borrow only enough to cover your necessary education-related expenses. Loans must be repaid with interest, even if you do not graduate. Star Icon Other Assistance There are additional borrowing options beyond student loans for extenuating circumstances. Please contact our Student Service Specialists in Husker Hub at 402-472-2030 or huskerhub@unl.edu to learn more. Scholarships We want to recognize you for your accomplishments with a scholarship! After you apply, we will notify you of your scholarship awards starting in the Fall of your senior year. You do not need to submit an ACT/SAT score to be considered for most academic scholarships—all you need to do is apply with your cumulative high school GPA. Leadership, service, and diversity scholarships are based on holistic review, meaning your test score is just one part of consideration. In order to maximize your eligibility, we encourage you to submit a Scholarship Statement by February 1. Scholarship Finder Explore scholarships! Click on the buttons below to narrow scholarship options, and see scholarships for which you may be eligible. Select all that apply First-Year Filter Icon Plus Filter Check Icon Transfer Filter Icon Plus Filter Check Icon Resident Filter Icon Plus Filter Check Icon Out-of-State Filter Icon Plus Filter Check Icon Leadership Filter Icon Plus Filter Check Icon Diversity Filter Icon Plus Filter Check Icon View All Scholarships Filter Icon View Filter Check Icon Button Click Icon Click or tap the buttons under the “Scholarship Finder” to display scholarships. Sorry there aren't any scholarships that meet the selected filters. View All Scholarships Chancellor's Tuition Scholarship First-Year Resident Out-of-State Dollar Icon Award Full Tuition per year Calendar Icon Application Deadline Resident: February 1 Nonresident: May 1 View Scholarship Details Chancellor's Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to finalists in nationally recognized scholar competitions, such as the National Merit and National Hispanic Recognition programs. National Merit finalists must select the University of Nebraska–Lincoln as their first-choice school through the National Merit Corporation. National Hispanic Recognition finalists must score a minimum of 28 on the ACT (or SAT equivalent). While Nebraska is test optional for most academic scholarships, the Chancellor's Scholarship continues to require a test score for consideration. This scholarship is a premier, academic scholarship—one of the most prestigious academic awards at Nebraska. Students awarded this scholarship are encouraged to apply to the University Honors Program: go.unl.edu/applyhonors. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/chancellors23. Award Full University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition per year for up to four years (or completion of a bachelor's degree), with three inclusive summers, including differential tuition (the Colleges of Business, Architecture and Engineering have differential tuition rates). National Merit Scholars may receive an additional $500 from the National Merit Scholarship Corporation. Deadline Resident: February 1 Nonresident: May 1 How to Apply National Merit Finalist Apply for admission by Feb. 1 (residents) or May 1 (out-of-state students). Select the University of Nebraska–Lincoln as your first-choice school through the National Merit Corporation. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska. Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. National Hispanic Recognition Apply for admission by Feb. 1 (residents) or May 1 (out-of-state students). Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska. Score a minimum of 28 on the ACT or the SAT equivalent. Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis Selection is based on recognition in national scholar competition. Renewability Students must maintain a 3.500 cumulative GPA and complete 24 hours each academic year. Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/chancellors23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Regents Scholar Tuition Commitment First-Year Resident Dollar Icon Award Full Tuition Calendar Icon Application Deadline February 1 View Scholarship Details Regents Scholar Tuition Commitment Close Awarded to Nebraska students who have demonstrated academic excellence and academic distinction at the highest level. As a full-tuition commitment, this award is unaffected by potential future tuition increases. Although it is not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. This award is a premier academic scholarship commitment, one of the most prestigious academic awards at Nebraska. Students awarded this scholarship are encouraged to apply to the University Honors Program: go.unl.edu/applyhonors. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/regents23. Award Recipients are awarded full University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for up to 120 credit hours, including summer and differential tuition (the Colleges of Business, Architecture and Engineering have differential tuition rates). Deadline February 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by February 1, including your cumulative high school GPA. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska (optional). Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Regents Tuition Scholars are encouraged to apply to the University Honors Program. Review Basis Regents Scholars demonstrate academic distinction at the highest level. Selection is based on a broader review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including exceptional grade point average (above the 90th percentile of Nebraska admits) or in combination with an excellent class rank and/or test score of 32 ACT (or SAT equivalent), with a subjective final academic review. Renewal Information Students must maintain a 3.500 cumulative GPA or rank in the upper 25% of their applicable class each academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/regents23. Transferability After completing at least one year of study at University of Nebraska–Lincoln and meeting the requirements listed above, a Regents Scholar may transfer to another campus of the University of Nebraska. To qualify for an award transfer when the same major is available on both campuses, the student must have met the initial award standards for the campus to which they transfer and the criteria for renewal. To qualify for an award transfer when the major is not available at UNL, the student must meet University of Nebraska–Lincoln renewal criteria. An award can transfer only once, the amount of which is determined by Board of Regents policy. Credit hours earned at a University of Nebraska campus are included in the 120 total hours. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Nebraska Career Scholarship First-Year Resident Dollar Icon Award $8,000 minimum per year Calendar Icon Application Deadline Priority: November 15 Final: February 1 View Scholarship Details Nebraska Career Scholarship Close Awarded to Nebraska residents who have demonstrated academic excellence and are admitted to degree programs in certain high wage, high skill and high demand fields in engineering, mathematics, healthcare or information technology. The Nebraska Career Scholarships Program is funded by the State of Nebraska. Scholars meet with career coaches to obtain a Nebraska-based internship, apprenticeship, clinical position or major-related field of employment prior to the completion of their program of study. While Nebraska is test optional for most academic scholarships, the Nebraska Career Scholarship continues to require a test score for consideration. Students awarded this scholarship are encouraged to apply to the University Honors Program: go.unl.edu/applyhonors. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/necareer23. Award Recipients are awarded $8,000 for the academic year ($4,000/semester) for up to four years, not including summers. Deadline Review begins immediately and continues while funding remains. Priority: November 15 Final: February 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by February 1 (residents). Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska. Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis Nebraska Career Scholars demonstrate academic excellence. Selection is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including exceptional grade point average (75th percentile of Nebraska admits) and/or an excellent class rank with a competitive test score, as well as a subjective final academic review. A 28 ACT (or SAT equivalent) is considered competitive for this scholarship and a minimum 20 ACT (or SAT equivalent) is required for consideration. Only students in certain high demand fields in Nebraska are considered, including students in the majors listed below. Agricultural Engineering Athletic Training Biological Systems Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Communication Sciences and Disorders Computer Engineering Computer Science Construction Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Software Engineering Renewability Students must maintain a 2.500 cumulative GPA and complete 30 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Students must also complete a Nebraska-based internship prior to their fourth year. Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/necareer23. Transferability Students transferring to another major may retain their scholarship if they maintain program eligibility and transfer prior to the start of their sophomore year into another program-eligible major. Transfers to another NU campus are eligible for consideration, but there is no expectation that funding will be provided by the new campus unless it is a formally approved NU 2+2 program. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Nebraska Achievement Tuition Scholarship First-Year Resident Leadership Diversity Dollar Icon Award $1,000/year (toward tuition) or Full Tuition/year Calendar Icon Application Deadline February 1 View Scholarship Details Nebraska Achievement Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to high-achieving Nebraska residents who demonstrate leadership and/or diverse experiences and knowledge. Scholarship statement reviews and awards are made on a rolling basis. Recipients are notified of selection between October and April. Students who are reviewed but not selected are not notified. Although it is not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/achievementtuition23. Award Recipients are awarded either $1,000 for the academic year ($500/semester) for up to four years, with three inclusive summers or full University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition per year for up to four years with three inclusive summers, including differential tuition (the Colleges of Business, Architecture and Engineering have different tuition rates). Deadline February 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by February 1. Submit your Scholarship Statement by February 1. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska (optional). Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis Nebraska Achievement Scholars demonstrate knowledge and experience with leadership and/or with people from diverse communities and backgrounds. Consideration and selection are also based on affordability and academic profile through a holistic review process. Renewability Students must maintain a 2.500 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/achievementtuition23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). David Distinguished Tuition Scholarship First-Year Resident Dollar Icon Award $3,500 (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline February 1 View Scholarship Details David Distinguished Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to outstanding Nebraska residents who have demonstrated academic excellence and academic distinction. Although it is not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. This award is one of the more prestigious at Nebraska. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/david23. Award Recipients are awarded $3,500 toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for the academic year ($1,750/semester) for up to four years, not including summers. Deadline February 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by February 1, including your cumulative high school GPA. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska. (optional) Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis David Distinguished Scholars demonstrate academic distinction. Selection is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including exceptional grade point average (90th percentile of Nebraska admits) or in combination with an excellent class rank and/or test score of 30 ACT (or SAT equivalent), with a subjective final academic review. Renewability Students must maintain a 3.500 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/david23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Nebraska Emerging Leaders Tuition Scholarship First-Year Resident Leadership Diversity Dollar Icon Award $2,000/year (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline February 1 View Scholarship Details Nebraska Emerging Leaders Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to Nebraska residents who have demonstrated high academic potential who are identified as emerging leaders in the Nebraska community due to their interest, knowledge and/or experience with leadership and diversity. Benefits of this distinction include participation in a leadership seminar through the Center for Academic Success and Transition (CAST). The program is designed to create experiences for personal leadership development and reflection, guiding scholars toward continued success. Through direct connections with inspiring campus leaders and individualized academic success coaching, scholars can build their own inclusive network and make a difference in their community. This scholarship can be combined with other campus-wide scholarships, not to exceed tuition. Scholarship statement reviews and awards are made on a rolling basis. Recipients are notified of selection between October and April. Students who are reviewed but not selected are not notified. Although it is not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/emergingleaders23. During their first fall semester, scholars enroll in a weekly seminar course and a weekly supplemental recitation(See full requirements). Emerging Leaders Peer Mentors help guide incoming students through their first semester. Award Recipients are awarded $2,000 ($1,00/semester) toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for four years, not including summers. This scholarship can only be applied to tuition. Deadline February 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by February 1 Submit your Scholarship Statement by February 1. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska (optional). Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis Nebraska Emerging Leaders Scholars demonstrate knowledge and experience with leadership and/or with people from diverse communities and backgrounds through engagement in diversity programming, organizations, activities, or events. Consideration and selection are also based on affordability and academic profile through a holistic review process. Renewability Students must maintain a 2.500 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are at go.unl.edu/emergingleaders23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Husker Traditions Scholarship First-Year Resident Dollar Icon Award $2,000 renewable Calendar Icon Application Deadline February 1 View Scholarship Details Husker Traditions Scholarship Close Awarded to extraordinary Nebraska students who have demonstrated academic accomplishment. This scholarship is made possible by a generous contribution from Husker Athletics. Students who will participate as a member of any University of Nebraska varsity NCAA team are not eligible to receive this award. Although not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. This award is one of the more the prized academic awards at Nebraska. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/husktrad23. Award Recipients are awarded $2,000 for the academic year ($1,000/semester) for up to four years, not including summers. Deadline February 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by February 1, including your cumulative high school GPA. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska. (optional) Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis Husker Traditions Scholars demonstrate extraordinary academic accomplishment. Selection is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including extraordinary grade point average (75th percentile of Nebraska admits) or in combination with an outstanding class rank and/or test score of 27 ACT (or SAT equivalent), with a subjective final academic review. Renewability Students must maintain a 3.250 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/husktrad23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. Husker Power Scholarship First-Year Resident Dollar Icon Award $1,500 Calendar Icon Application Deadline February 1 View Scholarship Details Husker Power Scholarship Close Awarded to Nebraska students who have demonstrated high academic potential. This scholarship is made possible by a generous contribution from Husker Athletics. Students who will participate as a member of any University of Nebraska varsity NCAA team are not eligible to receive this award. Although not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. Award Recipients are awarded $1,500 for the academic year ($750/semester), not including summer. Deadline February 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by February 1, including your cumulative high school GPA.. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska (optional). Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis Husker Power Scholars demonstrate high academic potential. Selection is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including high grade point average (above 50th percentile of Nebraska admits) or in combination with a high class rank and/or test score of 23 (or SAT equivalent), with a subjective final academic review. Renewability The Husker Power Scholarship is not renewable. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. Chancellor's Leadership Class Tuition Scholarship First-Year Resident Out-of-State Leadership Diversity Dollar Icon Award $1,000 (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline February 1 View Scholarship Details Chancellor's Leadership Class Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to high-achieving students who demonstrate leadership skills and knowledge who seek to engage in leadership roles on campus. Benefits of this distinction include participation in a leadership seminar through Student Leadership, Involvement, and Community Engagement. The program is designed to build leaders on campus through enhancement of leadership skills and learning how to make a difference in your community. This scholarship can be combined with other campus-wide scholarships, not to exceed tuition. Scholarship statement reviews and awards are made on a rolling basis. Recipients are notified of selection between October and April. Students who are reviewed but not selected are not notified. Although it is not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. Note: The value of this scholarship is not intended to cover the full tuition for the leadership seminar. Students with a prescriptive academic plan may choose to enroll in the course for no credit – consult with your academic advisor and the course instructor for details after New Student Enrollment. Award Recipients are awarded $1,000 ($500/semester) toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for the first year. This scholarship can only be applied to tuition. Deadline February 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by February 1 (resident) or May 1 (out-of-state students) Submit your Scholarship Statement by February 1. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska (optional). Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis Chancellor's Leadership Scholars are high-achieving scholars who demonstrate knowledge and experience with and a passion for leadership and involvement during high school who seek to engage in leadership roles on campus. Renewability This scholarship is not renewable. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Pepsi Service Scholarship First-Year Resident Leadership Diversity Dollar Icon Award $1,000 Calendar Icon Application Deadline February 1 View Scholarship Details Pepsi Service Scholarship Close Awarded to high-achieving students who demonstrate service to the community and seek to engage in service opportunities through campus. Pepsi Scholars are encouraged to engage with Nebraska leaders, cultivate relationships with peer leaders and continue their leadership development and growth. There are over 50 Recognized Students Organizations (RSOs) at Nebraska that identify service as their main purpose and these scholars are encouraged to learn more about these organizations at go.unl.edu/serviceorgs and start their service and leadership journey at Nebraska. Although it is not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. Award Recipients are awarded $1,000 ($500/semester) for the first year. Deadline February 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by February 1 Submit your Scholarship Statement by February 1. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska (optional). Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis Pepsi Scholars demonstrate knowledge and experience with leadership and service with people from diverse communities and backgrounds. Consideration and selection are also based on academic profile through a holistic review process. Renewability This scholarship is not renewable. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. Resident Nebraska Housing Credit First-Year Resident Leadership Diversity Dollar Icon Award $1,500/year toward on-campus housing and meals Calendar Icon Application Deadline February 1 View Scholarship Details Resident Nebraska Housing Credit Close Awarded to Nebraska residents who have demonstrated well-rounded accomplishment to offset the cost of on-campus housing. This credit is made possible by a generous contribution from University Housing, your future Husker home! This credit can be awarded in combination with an academic scholarship and/or a leadership, service, and diversity scholarship. This credit offsets eligible on-campus residential living and meal plan through University Housing. All residence halls are eligible except for Love Memorial Co-op. Although it is not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. For further details, visit go.unl.edu/housecredit23. Award Recipients receive a credit of $1,500 ($750/semester) to offset University Housing charges on the University student account each year for up to four years, not including summers. Deadline February 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by February 1. Submit your Scholarship Statement by February 1. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska (optional). Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your University Housing Contract by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis Housing Credit recipients demonstrate well-rounded accomplishment, which may include engagement in experiences through University recruitment events or campus visits and/or demonstrated diverse experiences, leadership, service and/or knowledge. Consideration and selection are also based on geographic diversity, affordability and academic profile through a holistic review process. Renewability Students must continue to live in University Housing and sign a Housing Contract annually by May 1. Full renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/housecredit23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Davis-Chambers Scholarship First-Year Resident Leadership Diversity Dollar Icon Award $2,000/year minimum (up to full direct costs) Calendar Icon Application Deadline February 1 View Scholarship Details Davis-Chambers Scholarship Close Awarded to identify and attract talented Nebraska resident scholars who have demonstrated knowledge and experience in diverse communities or backgrounds and are prepared to use such knowledge to contribute to the education of their fellow students. Watch this video to learn the story behind the Davis-Chambers Scholarship Award Recipients are awarded a minimum $2,000 ($1,000/semester) toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln costs for four years, not including summers. The award may be offered up to full direct costs for University of Nebraska–Lincoln attendance per year, as calculated by the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid. Deadline February 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by February 1. Complete and submit the Diversity Enhancement Application in MyRED by February 1. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska (optional). Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript to Admissions by June 1. Review Basis Davis-Chambers Scholars are Nebraska residents that demonstrate knowledge and experience with leadership and/or with people from diverse communities and backgrounds through engagement in diversity programming, organizations, activities, or events. Consideration and selection are also based on affordability and academic profile through a holistic review process. Renewability Students must maintain a 2.250 cumulative GPA at the end of the freshman year and 2.500 each year thereafter and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are provided at time of offer. Recipients must be an active participant in the OASIS Student Success Program from the Office of Academic Success and Intercultural Services (OASIS). Transferability Contact your OASIS advisor with questions regarding transferability. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. Native American Heritage Tuition Scholarship First-Year Resident Leadership Diversity Dollar Icon Award $2,000/year minimum (up to full direct costs) Calendar Icon Application Deadline February 1 View Scholarship Details Native American Heritage Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to identify and attract talented Nebraska resident scholars who have demonstrated knowledge and experience in the Native American community or backgrounds and are prepared to use such knowledge to contribute to the education of their fellow students. This scholarship can only be applied toward resident University of Nebraska–Lincoln tuition. Award Recipients are awarded a minimum $2,000 ($1,000/semester) toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln costs for four years, not including summers. The award may be offered up to full direct costs for University of Nebraska–Lincoln attendance per year, as calculated by the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid. Deadline February 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by February 1 Complete and submit the Diversity Enhancement Application in MyRED by February 1. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska. Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript to Admissions by June 1. Review Basis Native American Heritage Scholars are Nebraska residents that demonstrate knowledge and experience with leadership and/or with people from Native communities and backgrounds through engagement in diversity programming, organizations, activities, or events. Consideration and selection are also based on affordability and academic profile through a holistic review process. Certain out-of-state tribes qualify for Nebraska residency. Renewability Students must maintain a 2.500 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are provided at time of offer. Recipients must be an active participant in the OASIS Student Success Program from the Office of Academic Success and Intercultural Services (OASIS). Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). George Beadle Tuition Scholarship First-Year Out-of-State Dollar Icon Award $15,000 (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline Priority: February 1 Final: May 1 View Scholarship Details George Beadle Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to outstanding out-of-state students of high academic distinction to offset the cost of out-of-state tuition. Although it is not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. This award is one of the more prestigious out-of-state academic scholarships at Nebraska. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/beadle23. Award Recipients are awarded $15,000 toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for the academic year ($7,500/semester) for up to four years, not including summers based on enrollment in 15 credits per fall/spring semester (prorated for enrollment in fewer than 15 credit hours per semester). Deadline Priority: February 1 Final: May 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by May 1 (apply by February 1 for priority consideration), including your cumulative high school GPA. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska (optional). Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis George Beadle Scholars demonstrate academic distinction. Selection is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including extraordinary grade point average (75th percentile of Nebraska admits) or in combination with an outstanding class rank and/or test score of 29 ACT (or SAT equivalent), with a subjective final academic review. Renewability Students must maintain a 2.000 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/beadle23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). George Beadle International Baccalaureate Tuition Scholarship First-Year Out-of-State Dollar Icon Award $15,000 (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline Priority: February 1 Final: May 1 View Scholarship Details George Beadle International Baccalaureate Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to outstanding nonresident students of high academic distinction who are on track to complete the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma or Career Programme to offset the cost of out-of-state tuition. Although it is not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. This award is one of the more prestigious out-of-state academic scholarships at Nebraska. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/beadle23. Award Recipients are awarded $15,000 toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for the academic year ($7,500/semester) for up to four years, not including summers based on enrollment in 15 credits per fall/spring semester (prorated for enrollment in fewer than 15 credit hours per semester). Deadline Priority: February 1 Final: May 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by May 1 (apply by Feb. 1 for priority consideration), including your cumulative high school GPA. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska (optional). Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis George Beadle IB Scholars demonstrate academic distinction through the academic rigor of IB coursework. Selection is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including extraordinary grade point average (75th percentile of Nebraska admits) or in combination with an outstanding class rank and/or test score of 25 ACT (or SAT equivalent), with a subjective final academic review. Renewability Students must maintain a 2.000 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/beadle23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Nebraska Legacy Tuition Scholarship First-Year Out-of-State Dollar Icon Award $14,000 (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline Priority: February 1 Final: May 1 View Scholarship Details Nebraska Legacy Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to extraordinary out-of-state students with a parent alumnus who have demonstrated academic accomplishment to offset the cost of out-of-state tuition. While Nebraska is test optional for most academic scholarships, the Nebraska Legacy Tuition Scholarship continues to require a test score for consideration. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/legacy23. Award Recipients are awarded $14,000 toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for the academic year ($7,000/semester) for up to four years, not including summers based on enrollment in 15 credits per fall/spring semester (prorated for enrollment in fewer than 15 credit hours per semester). Deadline Priority: February 1 Final: May 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by May 1 (apply by Feb. 1 for priority consideration), including your cumulative high school GPA. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska. Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis Nebraska Legacy Scholars demonstrate academic distinction. Selection is based on confirmation of parent alumnus status as well as a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including a test score of 26 ACT (or SAT equivalent) and a 3.000 cumulative high school GPA. Nebraska Board of Regents policy defines child of an alumnus as someone who is a natural born child or legally adopted child of an alumnus. Renewability Students must maintain a 2.000 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/legacy23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Ruth Leverton Tuition Scholarship First-Year Out-of-State Leadership Diversity Dollar Icon Award $13,000 (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline Priority: February 1 Final: May 1 View Scholarship Details Ruth Leverton Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to extraordinary out-of-state students who have demonstrated academic accomplishment to offset the cost of out-of-state tuition. Although it is not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. This award is one of the more prestigious out-of-state academic scholarships at Nebraska. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/leverton23. Award Recipients are awarded $13,000 toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for the academic year ($6,500/semester) for up to four years, not including summers based on enrollment in 15 credits per fall/spring semester (prorated for enrollment in fewer than 15 credit hours per semester). Deadline Priority: February 1 Final: May 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by May 1 (apply by Feb. 1 for priority consideration), including your cumulative high school GPA. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska (optional). Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis Ruth Leverton Scholars demonstrate academic distinction. Selection is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including high grade point average (50th percentile of Nebraska admits) or in combination with a high class rank and/or test score of 24 ACT (or SAT equivalent), with a subjective final academic review. Renewability Students must maintain a 2.000 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/leverton23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Scarlet Tuition Scholarship First-Year Out-of-State Dollar Icon Award $5,000 (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline Priority: February 1 Final: May 1 View Scholarship Details Scarlet Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to out-of-state students who have demonstrated high academic potential to offset the cost of out-of-state tuition. Although it is not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. This award is one of the more prestigious out-of-state academic scholarships at Nebraska. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/scarlet23. Award Recipients are awarded $5,000 toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for the academic year ($2,500/semester) for up to four years, not including summers based on enrollment in 15 credits per fall/spring semester (prorated for enrollment in fewer than 15 credit hours per semester). Deadline Priority: February 1 Final: May 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by May 1 (apply by Feb. 1 for priority consideration), including your cumulative high school GPA. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska (optional). Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis Scarlet Scholars demonstrate high academic potential. Selection is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including strong grade point average (25th percentile of Nebraska admits) or in combination with a high school class rank and/or test score of 23 ACT (or SAT equivalent), with a subjective final academic review. Renewability Students must maintain a 2.000 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/scarlet23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Husker Heritage Tuition Scholarship First-Year Out-of-State Dollar Icon Award $3,000 or $5,000 (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline Priority: February 1 Final: May 1 View Scholarship Details Husker Heritage Tuition Scholarship Close A stackable academic award presented to exceptional Beadle Scholars who have demonstrated academic excellence and academic distinction at the highest level to further offset the cost of tuition. Although it is not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. This award is one of the more prestigious out-of-state academic scholarships at Nebraska. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/huskerheritage23. Award Recipients are awarded either $3,000 or $5,000 toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for the academic year ($1,500/semester or $2,500/semester, respectively) for up to four years, not including summers based on enrollment in 15 credits per fall/spring semester (prorated for enrollment in fewer than 15 credit hours per semester). Deadline Priority: February 1 Final: May 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by May 1 (apply by Feb. 1 for priority consideration), including your cumulative high school GPA. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska (optional). Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis Husker Heritage Scholars demonstrate academic distinction at the highest level. Selection is based on a holistic review that includes a balances objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including exceptional grade point average (90th percentile of Nebraska admits) or in combination with an excellent class rank and/or test score of 32 ACT (or SAT equivalent), with a subjective final academic review. Renewability Students must maintain a 3.000 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/huskerheritage23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Nonresident Nebraska Housing Credit First-Year Out-of-State Leadership Diversity Dollar Icon Award $3,000/year toward on-campus housing and meals Calendar Icon Application Deadline May 1 View Scholarship Details Nonresident Nebraska Housing Credit Close Awarded to out-of-state students who have demonstrated well-rounded accomplishments to help offset the cost of on-campus housing. This credit is made possible by a generous contribution from University Housing, your future Husker home! This credit can be awarded in combination with an academic scholarship and/or a leadership, service, and diversity scholarship. This credit offsets eligible on-campus residential living and meal plan through University Housing. All residence halls are eligible except for Love Memorial Co-op. Although it is not required, applicants may submit an ACT/SAT score and awarding consideration will be based on the highest scholarship possible based on either GPA alone or the combination of GPA and test score. For further details, visit go.unl.edu/housecredit23. Award Recipients receive a credit of $3,000 ($1,500/semester) to offset University Housing charges on the University student account each year for up to four years, not including summers. Deadline May 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by May 1. Submit your Scholarship Statement by February 1. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska (optional). Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1. Submit your University Housing Contract by May 1. Submit your final high school transcript in MyRED by June 1. Review Basis Housing Credit recipients demonstrate well-rounded accomplishment, which may include engagement in experiences through University recruitment events or campus visits and/or demonstrated diverse experiences, leadership, service, and/or knowledge. Consideration and selection are also based on geographic diversity, affordability, and academic profile through a holistic review process. If your residency status changes (from out-of-state to Nebraska resident), your housing credit may be cancelled as a result. Renewability Students must continue to live in University Housing and sign a Housing Contract annually by May 1. Full renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/housecredit23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Transfer Regents Scholar Tuition Commitment Transfer Resident Dollar Icon Award Full Tuition Calendar Icon Application Deadline Fall: March 1 Spring: October 1 View Scholarship Details Transfer Regents Scholar Tuition Commitment Close Awarded to Nebraska community college transfer students who have demonstrated academic excellence and academic distinction at the highest level. As a full-tuition commitment, this award is unaffected by potential future tuition increases. This award is a premier academic scholarship commitment, one of the most prestigious academic awards at Nebraska for Nebraska community college transfers, including transfer students from the Nebraska College of Technical Agriculture (NCTA). More information is available at go.unl.edu/transreg23. Award Recipients are awarded full University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for up to two years, including summer and differential tuition (the Colleges of Business, Architecture, and Engineering have differential tuition rates). Deadline Fall: March 1 Spring: October 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by March 1 (for fall) or October 1 (for spring). Submit your college transcripts in MyRED. Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyREDby May 1 for fall admits and December 1 for spring admits. Review Basis Regents Scholars demonstrate academic distinction at the highest level. Selection is based on completion of over 75% of your coursework at a Nebraska community college (or NCTA), a cumulative transfer college GPA of at least 3.750, and completion of at least 45 credit hours from a Nebraska community college, or NCTA (of which 30 credits must be accepted toward your Nebraska degree requirements at the time of application). A student must have no more than 87 credit hours. These credit hours must all have been completed and grade reflected in your official transcript by the application deadline. Final determination is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement with a subjective final academic review. Renewability Renewable for one year, students must maintain a 3.500 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours for the academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/transreg23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Transfer Nebraska Career Scholarship Transfer Resident Dollar Icon Award $8,000/year (minimum) Calendar Icon Application Deadline Fall: March 1 Spring: October 1 View Scholarship Details Transfer Nebraska Career Scholarship Close Awarded to transfer Nebraska residents who have demonstrated academic excellence and are admitted to degree programs in certain high wage, high skill, and high demand fields in engineering, mathematics, healthcare, or information technology. The Nebraska Career Scholarships Program is funded by the State of Nebraska. Scholars meet with career coaches to obtain a Nebraska-based internship, apprenticeship, clinical position, or major-related field of employment prior to the completion of their program of study. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/necareer23. Award Recipients are awarded $8,000 for the academic year ($4,000/semester) for up to four years, not including summers. Deadline Fall: March 1 Spring: October 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by March 1 (fall) or October 1 (spring). Submit your college transcripts in MyRED. Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1 (fall) or December 1 (spring). Nebraska Career Scholars are encouraged to apply to the University Honors Program. Review Basis Transfer Nebraska Career Scholars demonstrate academic excellence. Selection is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including exceptional college grade point average as well as a subjective final academic review. Only students in certain high demand fields in Nebraska are considered, including students in the majors listed below. Agricultural Engineering Athletic Training Biological Systems Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Communication Sciences and Disorders Computer Engineering Computer Science Construction Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Pre-Health Software Engineering Renewability Students must maintain a 2.500 cumulative GPA and complete 30 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Students must also complete a Nebraska-based internship prior to their fourth year. Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/necareer23. Transferability Students transferring to another major may retain their scholarship if they maintain program eligibility and transfer prior to the start of their sophomore year into another program-eligible major. Transfers to another NU campus are eligible for consideration, but there is no expectation that funding will be provided by the new campus unless it is a formally approved NU 2+2 program. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Nebraska Achievement Community College Tuition Scholarship Transfer Resident Dollar Icon Award $1,000 (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline Fall: March 1 Spring: October 1 View Scholarship Details Nebraska Achievement Community College Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to Nebraska community college transfer students who have demonstrated financial need and high academic potential. More information available at go.unl.edu/transfercc23. Award Recipients are awarded $1,000 toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for up to two academic years (fall/spring), excluding summer. Deadline Fall: March 1 Spring: October 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by March 1 (fall) or October 1 (spring). ile the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at FAFSA. Submit your college transcripts in MyRED. Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1 for fall admits and December 1 for spring admits. Review Basis Nebraska Achievement Community College Tuition Scholars demonstrate financial need and high academic potential. Selection is based on completion of over 75% of your coursework at a Nebraska community college (or NCTA), a cumulative transfer college GPA of at least 3.000, and completion of at least 45 credit hours from a Nebraska community college, or NCTA (of which 30 credits must be accepted toward your Nebraska degree requirements at the time of application). A student must have no more than 87 credit hours. These credit hours must all have been completed and grade reflected in your official transcript by the application deadline. Final determination is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement with a subjective final academic review. Renewability Renewable for one year, students must maintain a 2.500 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours for the academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/transfercc22. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Transfer Tribal College Tuition Scholarship Transfer Resident Dollar Icon Award Full Tuition Calendar Icon Application Deadline Fall: March 1 Spring: October 1 View Scholarship Details Transfer Tribal College Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to graduates of Nebraska high schools who are in progress or recently completed a two-year degree from certain Native American community/tribal colleges and universities. Students transferring from one of the following schools are considered. More information available at go.unl.edu/tribalcollege23. Kansas Haskell Indian Nations University, Lawrence, KS Montana Blackfeet Community College, Browning, MT Chief Dull Knife College, Lame Deer, MT Aaniiih Nakoda College, Harlem, MT Fort Peck Community College, Poplar, MT Little Big Horn College, Crow Agency, MT Salish Kootenai College, Pablo, MT Stone Child College, Box Elder, MT Nebraska Nebraska Indian Community College, Macy, NE Little Priest Tribal College, Winnebago, NE North Dakota Cankdeska Cikana Community College, Fort Totten, ND Fort Berthold Community College, New Town, ND Sitting Bull College, Fort Yates, ND Turtle Mountain Community College, Belcourt, ND United Tribes Technical College, Bismarck, ND South Dakota Oglala Lakota College, Kyle, SD Sinte Gleska University, Rosebud, SD Sisseton Wahpeton College, Sisseton, SD Award Recipients are awarded full University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for up to two years, including summer and differential tuition (the College of Business, Architecture, and Engineering having differential tuition rates). Deadline Fall: March 1 Spring: October 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by March 1 (fall) or October 1 (spring). Submit your college transcripts in MyRED. Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1 (fall) or December 1 (spring). Review Basis Transfer Tribal College Tuition Scholars demonstrate high academic potential. Selection is based a cumulative transfer college GPA of at least 2.500 from certain tribal colleges/universities. Final determination is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement with a subjective final academic review. Renewability Renewable for one year, students must maintain a 2.500 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours for the academic year (fall/spring). Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/tribalcollege23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Transfer Student Tuition Scholarship Transfer Resident Dollar Icon Award $1,000 (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline Fall: March 1 Spring: October 1 View Scholarship Details Transfer Student Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to outstanding Nebraska community college transfer students who have demonstrated high academic potential. Award Recipients awarded this non-renewable tuition scholarship receive $1,000 for the academic year (fall/spring). Deadline Fall: March 1 Spring: October 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by March 1 (for fall) or October 1 (for spring). Submit your college transcripts in MyRED. Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1 (fall) or December 1 (spring). Review Basis Transfer Student Tuition Scholars demonstrate high academic potential. Selection is based on completion of over 75% of your coursework at a Nebraska community college (or NCTA), a cumulative transfer college GPA of at least 3.500, and completion of at least 45 credit hours from a Nebraska community college, or NCTA (of which 30 credits must be accepted toward your Nebraska degree requirements at the time of application). A student must have no more than 87 credit hours. These credit hours must all have been completed and grade reflected in your official transcript by the application deadline. Final determination is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement with a subjective final academic review. Renewability Not renewable. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. Transfer George Beadle Tuition Scholarship Transfer Out-of-State Dollar Icon Award $15,000 (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline Fall: May 1 Spring: December 1 View Scholarship Details Transfer George Beadle Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to high-achieving out-of-state transfer students of high academic distinction to offset the cost of out-of-state tuition. This award is one of the more prestigious out-of-state academic scholarships at Nebraska. This scholarship is prorated for enrollment in fewer than 15 credits in fall/spring: 100% ($7,500/term) for 15 or more credits, 93% ($6,975/term) for 14 credits, 87% ($6,525/term) for 13 credits, 80% ($6,000) for 12 credits, and 0% for fewer than 12 credits. More information available at go.unl.edu/tbeadle23. Award Recipients are awarded $15,000 toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for the academic year ($7,500/semester) for up to two or three years, not including summers based on enrollment in 15 credits per fall/spring semester (prorated for enrollment in fewer than 15 credit hours per semester). Deadline Fall: May 1 Spring: December 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by May 1 (fall) or December 1 (spring). Submit your college transcripts in MyRED. Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1 (fall) or December 1 (spring). Review Basis George Beadle Transfer Scholars demonstrate academic distinction. Selection is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including extraordinary college grade point average of a 3.800 or better, with a subjective final academic review. Renewability Students must maintain a 2.000 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Students with 52 credits or fewer may renew for an additional two years and those with more than 52 credits may renew for one additional year. Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/tbeadle23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Transfer Nebraska Legacy Tuition Scholarship Transfer Out-of-State Dollar Icon Award $14,000 (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline Fall: May 1 Spring: December 1 View Scholarship Details Transfer Nebraska Legacy Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to extraordinary out-of-state transfer students with a parent alumnus who have demonstrated academic accomplishment to offset the cost of out-of-state tuition. While Nebraska is test optional for most academic scholarships, the Nebraska Legacy Tuition Scholarship continues to require a test score for consideration. This scholarship is prorated for enrollment in fewer than 15 credits in fall/spring: 100% ($7,000/term) for 15 or more credits, 93% ($6,510/term) for 14 credits, 87% ($6,090/term) for 13 credits, 80% ($5,600) for 12 credits, and 0% for fewer than 12 credits. Further details are available at go.unl.edu/tlegacy23. Award Recipients are awarded $14,000 toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for the academic year ($7,000/semester) for up to two or three years, not including summers based on enrollment in 15 credits per fall/spring semester (prorated for enrollment in fewer than 15 credit hours per semester). Deadline Fall: May 1 Spring: December 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by June 1 (fall) or December 1 (spring). Submit your college transcripts in MyRED. Complete the ACT/SAT on or before the February national test date and submit scores to Nebraska. Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1 (fall) or December 1 (spring). Review Basis Nebraska Legacy Scholars demonstrate academic distinction. Selection is based on confirmation of parent alumnus status as well as a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including a test score of 26 ACT (or SAT equivalent) and a 3.500 cumulative college transfer GPA. Nebraska Board of Regents policy defines child of an alumnus as someone who is a natural born child or legally adopted child of an alumnus. Renewability Students must maintain a 2.000 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Students with 52 credits or fewer may renew for an additional two years and those with more than 52 credits may renew for one additional year. Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/tlegacy23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Transfer Ruth Leverton Tuition Scholarship Transfer Out-of-State Dollar Icon Award $10,000 (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline Fall: May 1 Spring: December 1 View Scholarship Details Transfer Ruth Leverton Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to extraordinary out-of-state transfer students who have demonstrated academic accomplishment to offset the cost of out-of-state tuition. This scholarship is prorated for enrollment in fewer than 15 credits in fall/spring: 100% ($5,000/term) for 15 or more credits, 93% ($4,650/term) for 14 credits, 87% ($4,350/term) for 13 credits, 80% ($4,000) for 12 credits, and 0% for fewer than 12 credits. Further details available at go.unl.edu/tleverton23. Award Recipients are awarded $10,000 toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for the academic year ($5,000/semester) for two or three years, not including summers based on enrollment in 15 credits per fall/spring semester (prorated for enrollment in fewer than 15 credit hours per semester). Deadline Fall: May 1 Spring: December 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by May 1 (fall) or December 1 (spring). Submit your college transcripts in MyRED. Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1 (fall) or December 1 (spring). Review Basis Ruth Leverton Transfer Scholars demonstrate academic distinction. Selection is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including extraordinary transfer college grade point average of a 3.500 or better, with a subjective final academic review. Renewability Students must maintain a 2.000 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Students with 52 credits or fewer may renew for an additional two years and those with more than 52 credits may renew for one additional year. Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/tleverton23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Transfer Aaron Douglas Tuition Scholarship Transfer Out-of-State Dollar Icon Award $4,000 (toward tuition) Calendar Icon Application Deadline Fall: May 1 Spring: December 1 View Scholarship Details Transfer Aaron Douglas Tuition Scholarship Close Awarded to transfer students who have demonstrated high academic potential. This scholarship is prorated for enrollment in fewer than 15 credits in fall/spring: 100% ($2,000/term) for 15 or more credits, 93% ($1,860/term) for 14 credits, 87% ($1,740 /term) for 13 credits, 80% ($1,600) for 12 credits, and 0% for fewer than 12 credits. Further details available at go.unl.edu/tdouglas23. Award Recipients are awarded $4,000 toward University of Nebraska–Lincoln undergraduate tuition for the academic year ($2,000/semester) for up to two or three years, not including summers based on enrollment in 15 credits per fall/spring semester (prorated for enrollment in fewer than 15 credit hours per semester). Deadline Fall: May 1 Spring: December 1 How to Apply Apply for admission by May 1 (fall) or December 1 (spring). Submit your college transcripts in MyRED. Submit your Enrollment Deposit in MyRED by May 1 (fall) or December 1 (spring). Review Basis Aaron Douglas Transfer Scholars demonstrate high academic potential. Selection is based on a holistic review that includes a balanced objective assessment of competitive academic achievement, including high transfer college grade point average of a 3.000 or better, with a subjective final academic review. Renewability Students must maintain a 2.000 cumulative GPA and complete 24 credit hours each academic year (fall/spring). Students with 52 credits or fewer may renew for an additional two years and those with more than 52 credits may renew for one additional year. Full eligibility and renewal policies are available at go.unl.edu/tdouglas23. Transferability This scholarship is offered by the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The scholarship is not transferable in part or in whole to any other university or campus, including the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO), the University of Nebraska at Kearney (UNK) or the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC). This scholarship will not cover the cost of tuition for classes taken at UNO, UNK or UNMC. Note: The University of Nebraska does not discriminate based upon any protected status. Please see go.unl.edu/nondiscrimination. Scholarships are subject to change each year for new incoming students. As a public tuition benefit under Nebraska State Statute 4-110, individuals awarded these funds must be citizens of the United States or if a qualified alien have been verified as lawfully present in the United States (Nebraska State Statutes 4-111 and 4-112). Additional Scholarships Many organizations outside of the university offer scholarships to college-bound students. Nebraska keeps a list of top scholarship opportunities—including the Susan T. Buffett scholarship worth $11,000 per year. Click below to see the full list, requirements, deadlines and links to application instructions. Explore Additional Scholarships File the FAFSA and Get Help Paying for School The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is your key to need-based financial aid like scholarships, grants, work-study, and loans. It's money from the government to help you pay for college. Start Early Explore how you plan to pay for college. File the FAFSA Determine what financial assistance you qualify for. Review Aid Offer We mail award letters starting in December. Accept Aid You must accept awards prior to release of funds. File the FAFSA as early as October 1 of your senior year. The priority deadline to file is June 1. Financial aid is awarded on a first-come, first-served basis. Everyone is encouraged to file the FAFSA since most Huskers receive at least one type of need-based financial aid after filing their FAFSA. File Your FAFSA Today Financial Aid Beyond scholarships, financial aid from the government can provide monetary assistance to help you make your goals a reality. Most Huskers receive at least one of the three forms below after they file their FAFSA. After you are admitted and submit your FAFSA, you will receive a financial aid offer letter. See an example Financial Aid offer Grants Grants are free money to help you earn your degree with no repayment required. Most grants (federal, state and institutional) are based on financial need, which is determined by your FAFSA. Learn More with the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Loans You can borrow a federal loan to help pay for your education. Federal loans often do not require repayment until after you graduate and offer reasonable interest rates. Loans must be repaid with interest. Learn More with the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Federal Work-Study Program The Federal Work-Study program provides part-time jobs for students who have financial need and desire to earn a part of their educational expenses. Jobs average 10-20 hours per week and may be on- or off-campus. Learn More with the Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid Husker Hub Where students go to handle the business of being a Husker. Make Sense of Paying for College We know working out how to pay for college can be a little complicated, so our experts in Husker Hub are here to help. Husker Hub Student Services Specialists will work with you 1-to-1 to answer any of your questions about financial aid, scholarships, grants or any other aspect of paying for college. Contact Husker Hub at huskerhub@unl.edu or 402-472-2030 weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. CDT. Already Applied? If you've already applied to Nebraska and have questions about paying for college—including scholarships and financial aid—you can join our virtual visit queue, no appointment required. Use your NUID to log in and chat 1-to-1 with a full-time Student Services Specialist. Virtual Visits are available Monday – Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. CDT. Simply follow the link below to join the queue! Join the Virtual Queue Join Our Mailing List We'll send you personalized information about joining our community of doers, thinkers and creators—including details on your major of interest, scholarships and more. Your Contact Information Your First Name * Your Last Name * Your Email * You are a: * ... High School Freshman High School Sophomore High School Junior High School Senior Military/Veteran College Transfer Parent Next Right-Pointing Double Angle Quotation Mark Contact Us Address Map Pin Office of Admissions 1410 Q Street Lincoln, NE 68588-0417 US Office Hours Clock 8:00AM–5:00PM M–F Phone Phone 402-472-2023 Fax Fax Machine 402-472-0670 Email Envelope admissions@unl.edu Related Links Transfer Student Military Student Diversity Student First Generation Student International Student School Counselors Student Jobs Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.