Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Undergraduate Admissions Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy First-Year ApplicantsIt all starts here Transfer ApplicantsEasy transition Check Application Status Costs & Aid Apply for Aid Financial Aid Eligibility Costs to Attend Financial Aid Calculator Value of a Cornell Education Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Facts Frequently Asked Questions Cornell A-Z Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections You are here Home » Learn » Research Opportunities print share Facebook Twitter Research Opportunities Cornell is one of the greatest research universities in the world, and providing undergraduates with research opportunities is a top priority. Students across Cornell collaborate regularly with faculty on projects, and sometimes for academic credit or pay too. You don’t have to be a scientist or an engineer to get involved. Research opportunities are available for students in all of our majors. Below are some common questions about research opportunities at Cornell: Q. How do I find out about research opportunities? A. There are many resources, but the Office of Undergraduate Research is a good place to start. Some professors may announce opportunities in class, or you can speak to them directly about projects where student research assistance might be needed. You can also join student organizations such as the Cornell Undergraduate Research Board to see what students are working on with faculty. Q. What if I have my own project in mind? A. The first step is to develop familiarity with your field of interest, then take classes that relate to the project you’re thinking about. This will introduce you to professors who share a similar passion. You can also attend lectures on campus and speak with faculty members. Q. Do I have to wait until I’m an upperclassman to conduct research? A. No. Many first-year and second-year students explore their options by volunteering in labs and networking. Q. Can I do a project outside of my home department? A. Absolutely! This will give you a chance to explore and become a well-rounded student. You’ll likely learn that the techniques and principles applied in your research project relate to the subject or area you’re studying. Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Contact Us From your first questions about Cornell to the completion of your application, the Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you find the information you need. Website Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. University Privacy Statement Undergraduate Admissions Office Cornell University 410 Thurston Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 admissions@cornell.edu Tel: 607.255.5241 Fax: 607.255.0659 © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment Admitted Students