Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Video of Highlights From 2018 People Places Pines Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthVisit Dartmouth There’s no one Dartmouth story. People Places Pines is here to share the lives of Dartmouth students — and offer a little admissions advice along the way. People Places Pines Search All Posts: go All Posts All Click to Open All Academics & Research Campus Life Winter Choose your own Category Click to Open Admissions Adventures Abroad Aid & Affordability Arts Athletics Fall Hanover & The Upper Valley Humanities International Students Internships Meet the Bloggers STEM Social Life Social Sciences Spring Summer Traditions With a max word count of 100, my cursor blinked mockingly at me. I already knew I wanted to attend Dartmouth, and I knew why—I wanted the small tight-knit community, the beautiful campus, and most importantly, the vibe that campus radiated to me. Read More Why Dartmouth? Luke Grayson 2025 A Letter to Freshman Year With freshman year coming to a close, I wrote a Thank You note to one of the best years! Read More Caroline York 2025 Goodbye, 22S Happy last week of classes! Here are some of my reflections from my junior spring. Read More Love Tsai 2023 Greenkey: dancing in a field to internationally famous mucisians in Hanover! Dartmouth has too many traditions to name, but Greenkey is one of the best ones! Read on to find out about my experience this year! Read More Luke Grayson 2025 Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Freshman Year: A Retrospective A look back at my first year at Dartmouth! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 Work Hard, Play Hard: A Green Key Weekend at Dartmouth! After two years, Dartmouth's annual spring festival, known affectionately as Green Key, occurred this weekend! The weekend held many events, but even so, I saw the Dartmouth culture of work hard, play hard. Read More Tulio Huggins 2023 Taking my Professor to Lunch! Here's a reflection on my experience taking my computer science professor out for a free meal paid for by the school! Read More Jack Heaphy 2024 Alumni Interview I sat down with my friend, Ali '20, who conducts interviews, to gain some insight into what students should expect for the interviews. Read More Caroline York 2025 Saint Motel Meets Hanover: Green Key 2022! As the 23s, 24s, and 25s shared our first Green Key together, Dartmouth ended up bringing my middle-school self's favorite band to campus: here's how my Green Key went! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Ask The Bloggers Ask Your Question Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Getting an Internship Q: What is the process for finding an internship and how do I go about finding one? A: It can be difficult to find an internship on your own. You're in luck because Dartmouth offers many resources to help you get started on your internship search. Read More Adrian Chimboza 2025 Taking Care of Your Mental Health Q: How do you look after your mental well-being? A: When you leave home for college, you encounter new people, new experiences, new temptations, new fears, and new decisions, and you are no longer guided and protected by your parents. At the same time, it's thrilling, liberating, and terrifying. Read More Adrian Chimboza 2025 On Work-Study Q: For those who work-study, how do you balance it? Is it manageable? A: That is a great question! Read More Love Tsai 2023 Academic Research, Social Impact Projects, and Study Abroads Q: Have you received funding from Dartmouth for research, a project, or a trip? If so, how did you find that funding, and what did it enable you to do? A: Although I haven't received any funding yet, at Dartmouth, there are several ways to get funding to conduct either academic research, a social impact project, or a study abroad. Read More Adrian Chimboza 2025 Building Relationships with Faculty Q: How do you build relationships with professors at Dartmouth? A: Relationships with faculty at a school like Dartmouth can be intimidating. I'm happy to share a bit about how I've developed relationships with professors here! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Staying Connected To Your Faith At Dartmouth Q: Which religious services are offered at Dartmouth? Is there a church or chapel or any other social group to feel connected to your faith? A: There are a lot of ways in which you can stay connected with your faith at Dartmouth, and I have listed some of them below. 1) Student Organizations a. Morning Glory Community Fellowship Read More Adrian Chimboza 2025 Research programs at Dartmouth Q: What are some research programs at Dartmouth? A: This is a great question and I'm so glad you asked! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 International Students and Financial Aid Q: I'm an international student. What should I know about financial aid at Dartmouth? A: Financial aid is one of the most important aspects of your educational experience at Dartmouth, both for domestic and international students. Read More Adrian Chimboza 2025 Dartmouth's Living Learning Communities Q: What is an LLC? How do they work and how can I join one? What sorts of events do LLCs host? A: Dartmouth College has a variety of Living Learning Communities (LLCs), and for this blog post, I gathered information that is by no means comprehensive of all LLCs at Dartmouth. Read More Adrian Chimboza 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Student Bloggers Click to Open Student Bloggers Staff Bloggers Previous Bloggers Griselda Chavez Class of 2024 Hometown Norwalk, California Academic Program Economics Modified w/ Public Policy, Human-Centered Design, Environmental Science Favorite Thing Right Now FOCO's churros Bio Hello! My name's Griselda Chavez & I am a second-year student from Southern California. I am majoring in Economics modified with Public Policy and double minoring in Human-Centered Design and Environmental Science. At Dartmouth, I have been involved with Dartmouth's Center for Social Impact, the Rockefeller Center, the Dartmouth, and People of Color Outdoors (POCO). Stay tuned to learn more about what Dartmouth has to offer and how as a first-generation college student I have navigated college. Pronouns she/her/hers Adrian Chimboza Class of 2025 Hometown Harare, Zimbabwe Academic Program Engineering Sciences or Economics Favorite Thing Right Now Foco Cookies! Bio Olá! Welcome to my Dartmouth experience. My name is Adrian and I'm a '25 originally from Harare, Zimbabwe. I have an unquenchable thirst for tech, sustainability, economics, and nature, so I'm really looking forward to majoring in something that amalgamates the four—maybe a modified engineering major. Who knows? NOT ME. When I'm not attempting problem sets or reading Things Fall Apart, you can find me all over campus, exploring hidden gems and flooding my phone with random pictures. Pronouns he/him/his Paulina Cuadra Class of 2025 Hometown Managua, Nicaragua Academic Program Economics and Geography Favorite Thing Right Now The Tower Room at Baker Berry Bio Hey there! My name is Paulina (but I usually go by Pau), and I am from Nicaragua, where I have lived for most of my life. At Dartmouth, I plan to study Geography with a minor in Economics. I have an undying passion for eating fruit, discovering new study spots, watching sunrises/sunsets, and relishing in warm weather (Hanover will be an adjustment). Feel free to ask me any and all questions as I discover the new world of Dartmouth! Go Big Green! Pronouns she/her/hers Diana D'Souza Class of 2023 Hometown Edison, New Jersey Academic Program Chinese, Government, Economics Favorite Thing Right Now My AC unit Bio Hello friends! My name is Diana D'Souza, and I'm pursuing a double major in Chinese and Government modified with Economics. On campus, I'm a Chinese research assistant and a member of the Women in Business (WIB) Executive Board. I'm also a TA for ENGS 12, Design Thinking, and involved in my sorority, Kappa Delta. In my free time, I enjoy swimming, curating Spotify playlists, and baking with friends. Pronouns She/her/hers Chidera Duru Class of 2025 Hometown Lagos, Nigeria Academic Program Economics, African and African American Studies Favorite Thing Right Now Cup noodles! Bio Hi guys! I'm Chidera and I'm a '25 from Lagos, Nigeria. I've lived in a big city for nearly half of my life, so I'm excited to explore the scenic outdoor spaces surrounding Dartmouth. I love trying new things, so I just signed up for Dartmouth's archery team! Other than that, I can't wait to get involved in The Dartmouth Alliance For Children Of Color, the Political Economy Project, and The Dartmouth Outing Club. Most of all, I'm looking forward to sharing my Dartmouth experience with you! Pronouns she/her/hers Bryanna Entwistle Class of 2023 Hometown Singapore Academic Program Government and History Major Favorite Thing Right Now The Strava app Bio Hey there! My name is Bryanna and I'm a '23 from Singapore. Kind of. I was raised in Hong Kong, New York, and India as well—moving to small town NH has been quite the change! On campus, I row with the varsity women's crew and dance with Sugarplum. I'm a government and history double major with plans to eventually go to law school and...well, that's about as far as we've gotten with the planning. Passions include biking in the Upper Valley, CNN, and taking notes on my iPad. Pronouns She/her/hers Toni Fabian Class of 2025 Hometown San Juan Capistrano, California Academic Program Intended majors: Economics and Sociology; Intended minor: Human-Centered Design Favorite Thing Right Now Cranberry juice Bio Hi all! Welcome to my very public blogging page! I am Toni Fabian '25, the middle child of my family, from a small town in sunny Southern California. I plan to study economics and sociology. I am passionate about culture, educational equity, and social justice. I will be writing about all things Dartmouth, from the infamous FOCO cookies to the resources and opportunities offered here on campus. I am truly so excited to bring you along with me while I navigate my college journey! Pronouns he/him Abbi Fralick Class of 2023 Hometown North Augusta, South Carolina Academic Program Government and Economics Favorite Thing Right Now Yellow — both the color and the Coldplay song Bio Hi, welcome to the blog! I'm a junior from a small suburb in South Carolina, just outside of Augusta, Georgia. On campus (and virtually), I'm involved in club water polo, the America Reads program, and the TAMID student consulting group. In the classroom, I'm super excited to pursue my interest in improving the world through public policy by studying the intersection of government and economics. I hope you enjoy following along as I explore all that Dartmouth has to offer! Pronouns She/her/hers Gavin Fry Class of 2025 Hometown Hornersville, Missouri Academic Program Prospective Environmental Earth Science Major with a Minor in Public Policy Favorite Thing Right Now My idea of starting a chapter of the American Meteorological Society (AMS) here at Dartmouth! Bio Greetings from the woods! My name is Gavin Fry, and I'm a new student blogger with the People, Places, and Pines team. I'm a proud first-generation college student, carrying with me the full support of my crazy family. I plan to be involved with undergraduate research, outdoor activities, and club golf here at Dartmouth! You can find me geeking out about the weather, reading novels, and always drinking coffee (at any time of the day). So nice to meet you! Pronouns He/Him/His Will Gerrish Class of 2022 Hometown New Castle, New Hampshire Academic Program English major with a Creative Writing focus; Economics minor Favorite Thing Right Now Feeling the weather get just a little bit warmer Bio Hey everyone! I'm Will, a '22 from a small island on the coast of New Hampshire. I'm an avid reader and writer, and when I'm not buried in a book at Sanborn Library you can usually find me hanging out and laughing with friends somewhere around campus. I also love playing guitar, jamming with friends, and discovering new music. Dartmouth has been my favorite place in the world for the last three years and I hope this blog reveals even just a fraction of what makes it so incredible! Pronouns he/him/his Gabriel Gilbert Class of 2023 Hometown Stafford, Virginia Academic Program Linguistics Favorite Thing Right Now Fantasy novels and homemade poke! Bio Aloha to the page of a wanderlusting writer juggling college life and several other hobbies into an eternally-short 24-hour day. I hope to shed light on the Dartmouth experience as I explore the brave new world of Hanover, NH and everything going to college here has to offer. In my free time, you can find me trying to learn a new language or building the perfect Spotify playlist (alternative/indie, anyone?). I hope you enjoy! Pronouns he/him/his Eda Naz Gokdemir Class of 2025 Hometown Istanbul, Turkey Academic Program Psychology Favorite Thing Right Now Walkoms Bio Hello, Eda here: full-time learner, part-time writer, and pretty much a happy amateur at everything else. My hobbies include reading, discovering new movies, and looking at the pictures of my cat. On campus, you can find me peer supporting for the Mental Health Union and SAPA, writing for Spare Rib, listening to Turkish & English alt-rock, or compulsively daydreaming. Feel free to ask me about taking a gap year, transitioning to a new cultural space, or college in general! Pronouns she/her Luke Grayson Class of 2025 Hometown Seaham, England Academic Program Undecided Favorite Thing Right Now Hiking! Especially at sunrise! Bio Welcome to the blog of an Englishman studying at Dartmouth—do take a look around! Hopefully, my blogs will provide you with an insight on life at Dartmouth, and specifically through the eyes of an international student. Dartmouth has a tonne to offer from the staggering natural beauty of its surroundings and stellar academic programs to the wonderful people you meet along the way. So stay a while, I'll make us cups of tea, and take a moment to discover life at the college on the hill. Pronouns he/him Chase Harvey Class of 2025 Hometown Greenville, South Carolina Academic Program Music, Neuroscience Favorite Thing Right Now Giving music recommendations!! Bio Hello! My name is Chase and I am a '25 from South Carolina. I intend on exploring what the field of music can offer (whether that's the cognition of sound or exploring more interactive projects). When I'm not hanging out with friends or doing classwork, you can find me practicing tuba in The Hop. I'm involved in the Dartmouth College Wind Ensemble (DCWE), Dartmouth Symphony Orchestra (DSO), Dartmouth Chamber Orchestra (DCO), Friday Night Rock, and of course, this blog. Pronouns he/him/his Jack Heaphy Class of 2024 Hometown Charlottesville, Virginia Academic Program Sociology, Anthropology, Human-Centered Design Favorite Thing Right Now New Irving Building! Bio Hi! My name is Jack and I am a Sophomore at Dartmouth. I currently plan to major in sociology modified with anthropology, all with a human-centered design minor. Outside of class, I enjoy performing and I'm currently involved in both a student dance group and acapella. I love hiking and running outdoors and have already explored a lot of Dartmouth's surrounding trails. I am also involved in Greek Life, the Student and Presidential Committee for Sexual Assault, and the Inter Fraternity Council. Pronouns he/him/his Emily Hemelt Class of 2025 Hometown New Orleans, Louisiana Academic Program Undecided Favorite Thing Right Now Cartoons and fantasy novels! Bio Hi friends and welcome to my page! I'm Emily, a '25 from a town where winter rarely comes to visit and departs after only a few days. In my spare time, I love to read fiction novels, bake cinnamon rolls, play card games, solve riddles, delve into conspiracy theories, and engage in any water activity. I'm thrilled you're here and hope you enjoy! Pronouns she/her Tulio Huggins Class of 2023 Hometown Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania Academic Program History & English with Concentration in Creative Writing Favorite Thing Right Now Hanging out with my fraternity brother and hanging out in Aquinas House! Bio Hi guys! The name's Tulio (yes, like the guy from Rio) Huggins, and I am a '23! I am from the beautiful state of Pennsylvania, where I have lived for the past couple of years. I am double majoring in History and English with a concentration in Creative Writing. In my free time, I love to hang out with friends at Dartmouth Apologia, my fraternity, and in Aquinas House! Feel free to ask any questions you might have. I hope that you all have a blessed day! Pronouns He/him/his Eva Hymes Class of 2025 Hometown Albany, New York Academic Program Biomedical Engineering major with a Human Centered Design minor Favorite Thing Right Now Faye Webster Bio Hey! I'm Eva, a '25 from the suburbs of New York. Though pursuing engineering, I'm passionate about combining my interests in medicine and art within my studies. When I'm not working on problem sets at Baker Library, you can find me playing guitar with my floormates, scouring the internet for local concerts, or utilizing nap spots in the Tower Room. I love Dartmouth for being the perfect place for someone with infinite interests and I hope this blog inspires a similar sentiment! Pronouns she/her/hers Angie Janumala Class of 2022 Hometown Bronx, New York Academic Program Quantitative Social Science and Digital Arts Favorite Thing Right Now Bucket hats Bio Hi, I'm Angie! I'm a '22 from the Bronx, NY, though I also call Orange County, CA, and London, UK home. I study Quantitative Social Science (with a Government focus) and Digital Arts. Through Dartmouth, I've been able to study premodern religion in Edinburgh, Scotland; advocate for sexual violence prevention; and connect with other first-generation and low-income students just like myself. Talk to me about activism, music production, cats, dance, or anything else! Pronouns she/her/hers Shuyi Jin Class of 2023 Hometown Montreal, Canada Academic Program Economics and Computer Science Favorite Thing Right Now Listening to new music Bio Hello there! My name is Shuyi and I'm a '23, which means it's my junior year here at Dartmouth! I'm back on campus for the first time in a year so follow me as I get back to some of my favorite experiences! At Dartmouth, I enjoy playing squash, eating at late night, and of course, blogging. You can ask me about studying social sciences, coming to Dartmouth as an international student, and anything else really. I hope you enjoy the blog! Pronouns He/him/his Antônio Jorge Medeiros Batista Silva Class of 2025 Hometown Governador Valadares, Brazil Academic Program Linguistics major, possible minors in Theatre or Spanish Favorite Thing Right Now Sunny days, my plants, and caramel macchiatos! Bio Ei! My name is Antônio Jorge Medeiros Batista Silva (yes—four last names!) and I'm a '25 from Governador Valadares, Brazil. My journey to Dartmouth has crossed two continents, three countries, and over 10 schools—and I'm a strong believer that everyone's path to the Big Green was unique in a way. At Dartmouth, I am interested in studying linguistics, theatre, and Spanish. I am really passionate about social justice, learning languages, and the oxford comma! Pronouns he/him/his Daniel Kang Class of 2025 Hometown Irvine, California Academic Program Biology and Anthropology Favorite Thing Right Now Hypnosis Bio Hi everyone! My name's Daniel, and I'm a 25! I'm from California, but I also lived in Seoul, South Korea for almost half of my life. I'm hoping to major in Biological Anthropology. If I'm not under my sheets watching a new Netflix series, you'll probably catch me at Dirt Cowboy Café drinking iced mocha or hanging out with my friends on the Green. I hope you learn something new about Dartmouth today! Pronouns he/him Natalie Keim Class of 2025 Hometown Oakland, California Academic Program Government Favorite Thing Right Now Crossword puzzles Bio Welcome to the (virtual) woods! My name is Natalie and I'm a '25 from Oakland, California (3035 miles away from Dartmouth)! I'm a political science and crossword puzzle nerd who's excited to dive into the millions of activities we have on campus. I love to cook and read, I make a mean Spikeball partner, and I love to ski. I'm hoping to pursue a Government major here at Dartmouth and am equally excited for all the academic exploration between now and when I declare my major. Go Big Green! Pronouns she/her May Oo Khine Class of 2023 Hometown Yangon, Myanmar Academic Program Quantitative Social Science Favorite Thing Right Now Finally having Stir-fry from Collis after a looong year... Bio Hi there! I'm May and I'm sooo excited to share my Dartmouth experience with you! I love basically all types of food, binge watching Asian shows, and cozy movie nights! Find me in gym playing badminton, with my friends in the common rooms, getting coffee at Collis (my favorite), or volunteering at local service projects! Pronouns She/her/hers Guilherme Marinho Class of 2022 Hometown Curitiba, Brazil Academic Program Computer Science Favorite Thing Right Now The leaves slowly turning orange! Bio Welcome to the transition diary from a big, cold Brazilian city to a small, very cold American town! I fell in love with Dartmouth soon as I got to know the College, and the last three years have expanded my love, as there is a lot to enjoy here in the woods: majors and minors, extracurriculars and clubs, many new open doors to a curious mind like mine! Hope you all like the content! Pronouns He, Him, His Robin Martinez Class of 2023 Hometown Annapolis, Maryland Academic Program Economics and Computer Science Favorite Thing Right Now Domino's cheese pizza! Bio Hi all! Welcome to my blog! My name is Robin. I am a junior studying Economics and Computer Science. Outside of class I'm a guitarist, amateur rock climber, and seasoned billiard player–if you're on campus, there's a good chance you can find me in the basement of Collis playing pool with friends. I love Dartmouth and am sharing my journey through this blog. So if you're a prospie, parent, or Dartmouth enthusiast, you've come to the right place! Pronouns He/him/his Brandon Mioduszewski Class of 2025 Hometown Franklin Park, Illinois Academic Program Middle Eastern Studies Favorite Thing Right Now Grape powerade Bio What's up! My name is Brandon and I'm a '25 from a small town on the outskirts of Chicago. I am driven by intercultural communication; I am passionate about Middle Eastern culture, politics, history, and languages, and a career as a researcher is on my mind. I love vexillology (the study of flags!), anti-pop, spicy foods, streetwear, and the color yellow. Please enjoy these snapshots of my life in Hanover! Pronouns he/him Kiara Ortiz Class of 2024 Hometown Bronx, New York Academic Program Intended major: Neuroscience; Intended minor: Public Policy Favorite Thing Right Now Hamilton Bio Hi there! My name is Kiara Ortiz, a '24 from New York! I'm interested in studying Neuroscience along with Public Policy on the pre-health track. In my free time, I like to read sci-fi, play board games, and brag about my (supposedly) awful science puns. If you don't find me lost on the Green, I'm probably playing Werewolf or Trivia on Zoom with other '24s. Stay tuned to learn about the Dartmouth community I fell in love with and more about our virtual reality! Pronouns she/her/hers Catherine Parnell Class of 2022 Hometown Houston, Texas Academic Program Computer Science & History Favorite Thing Right Now Gang of Youth's album: 'Go Farther in Lightness' Bio Hi y'all! I'm Catherine and I'm from the great state of Texas. When I'm not in class you'll find me carefully curating Spotify playlists, exploring the Upper Valley with friends, or finding ways to enjoy the great outdoors through different sub-clubs with the DOC. I am the Treasurer of the club lacrosse team, a tutor for the Institute for Writing and Rhetoric, and am involved with research in machine learning and computational humanities through Sophomore and Neukom scholars! Pronouns She/Her Elina Pepper Class of 2022 Hometown San Diego, CA Academic Program Biology major, Spanish minor, pre-med Favorite Thing Right Now Dirt Cowboy coffee Bio Hi everyone! My name is Elina and I am a '22 from San Diego, CA, so coming to New England was definitely a big change for me! On campus, you are most likely to find me in Collis Cafe or 3FB (3rd floor of Berry library). In addition to being a Senior Fellow in the Office of Admissions, I am involved in pre-health mentoring, research, club sports, and Greek life. In my free time, I love to travel, bake with friends, and binge watch the Bachelor! Pronouns she/her Natasha Raman Class of 2023 Hometown Plano, Texas Academic Program History Major and Minors in Public Policy and Chinese Favorite Thing Right Now Fall Foliage Bio Hey y'all! My name is Natasha, and I am a junior at Dartmouth College. I'm majoring in history and minoring in public policy and Chinese. In my free time, I love to watch New Girl, hang out with my friends, and explore the Upper Valley. Dartmouth is a pretty neat place— I hope you enjoy reading my posts about life here! Pronouns She/her/hers Owen Seiner Class of 2024 Hometown Hollywood, Florida Academic Program Major in Earth Science modified with Physics & a Minor in Biology Favorite Thing Right Now Elliott Smith Bio Hey! I'm Owen from Hollywood, Florida and I'm a '24. My favorite activities are listening to music, running, and reading the same books over and over again. I'm an Earth Science modified with Physics major and Biology minor who loves "The New Yorker," the outdoors, and reading. On campus, I'm involved with hydrological research, the Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, Hillel, Greek Life, and—obviously—this blog! Pronouns he/him/his Estelle Stedman Class of 2023 Hometown Seattle, Washington Academic Program English Bio Hi everyone! I'm Estelle, a '23 from Seattle, WA. When not in class you can find me reading at Still North Books, spending time with friends, and looking for a cup of coffee. On campus, I'm studying English and Chinese. This blog is a collection of class recommendations, stories, and advice from my first couple years at Dartmouth-- I hope you enjoy! Pronouns She/her/hers Nicholas Sugiarto Class of 2023 Hometown San Diego, California Academic Program Biomedical Engineering and English Favorite Thing Right Now 88Rising and Stress Cleaning Bio First, I'll explain who I am. I'm Nicholas Sugiarto, a '23 from San Diego, California. Second, a quick disclaimer. I have absolutely no idea what I'm doing. Prior to Dartmouth, I've never hiked, skied, or seen snow. So yeah, you could say that Dartmouth is quite a bit different from what I'm used to. You'll probably find me on campus lost. I have no sense of direction. Please help. Pronouns He/him/his Love Tsai Class of 2023 Hometown Metro Detroit, Michigan Academic Program Pre-med, math with a minor in public policy Favorite Thing Right Now the food my mom made and froze for me before spring term Bio Hello there, friend! My name is Love and I am a '23. Aside from being on the pre-med track, I'm currently interested in studying math and public policy. I have a penchant for old things, learning languages, and the arts. I also love personality tests, irrespective of their actual validity—in case you're curious, I'm an INFJ, Scorpio, dragon, and type 2w1. Pronouns She/her/hers Sydney Wuu Class of 2024 Hometown Pasadena, California Academic Program Majors in Economics and Environmental Studies, Minor in Public Policy Favorite Thing Right Now My Electric Scooter Bio Hey all! So excited to see you here. My name is Sydney and I'm a '24 majoring in Economics and Environmental Studies and minoring in Public Policy from Southern California. I've also lived abroad in Spain, Gibraltar, and the Philippines, so Hanover and the East Coast are a whole new world to me! I love to scuba dive, bike, travel, and write. Besides blogging, I am involved in Women's Water Polo, Greek Life, and am a Research Assistant for the ENVS department. Pronouns she/her/hers Caroline York Class of 2025 Hometown Marietta, Georgia Academic Program Classics on the Pre-Health track Favorite Thing Right Now Runs around Occom Pond! Bio Hey y'all! I'm Caroline York, and I'm a '25 from Georgia! My hope is to share my Dartmouth experience with potential '26s, '27s, '28s and beyond! On campus, I write sports for The Dartmouth, a Center for Social Impact SIBS mentor, am in Christian life, a Tour Guide, a Dartmouth Emergency Medical Services (EMS) member, a Dartmouth Club Runner, and write for this blog! Otherwise, you'll find me enjoying winter, studying in the Tower Room, and eating warm FoCo cookies. Welcome to my world! Pronouns she/her Brandon Zhou Class of 2022 Hometown Vancouver, Canada Academic Program Government and Linguistics modified with Neuroscience Favorite Thing Right Now Catching up with friends who I haven't seen since last year Bio Hey everyone – this is Brandon! I'm a '22 from Vancouver, Canada double majoring in Government and Linguistics modified with Neuroscience. I'm involved with the Center for Social Impact, Wind Ensemble, Collis Center, and my fraternity. Aside from that, I'm always looking to explore the Upper Valley whether it be in the outdoors making maple syrup or inside a diner! Pronouns he/him/his Ali Duke Senior Assistant Director of Admissions Hometown Weston, Vermont Academic Program B.A. Neuroscience Travel territories? Sub-Saharan Africa, United Kingdom, Northern and Central Europe, Colorado, Idaho, Utah, Wyoming Favorite Thing Right Now Apple cider About My name is Allison L. Duke and I'm originally from Weston, Vermont. In college, I was a neuroscience major—admissions officers come from all backgrounds. I'm actually not even the only neuro major in the office. I'm also the co-founder of the annual McNutt Pastapalooza! Pronouns She/her Topher Bordeau Associate Director of Admissions Hometown Quechee, VT Academic Program B.A. English, Post-graduate diploma, Social Administration, MBA candidate Travel territories? Long Island, N.Y., United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Jordan, Kuwait, India, & Bangladesh Favorite Thing Right Now My young daughters trying to say “chipotle aioli” (#dadthings) About “Topher” is a nickname, the second half of my real name, Christopher. My mom gave it to me at age two, and it’s too late to change it now! I’m an Associate Director of Admissions by way of tenures in advancement and intercollegiate athletics. Growing up, I never imagined myself living in Vermont or working in higher ed, let alone loving both. Here’s to a surprising life. Pronouns He/him Melissa Barales-Lopez Class of 2022 Hometown East Los Angeles, CA Academic Program (Intended) Double Major in Government & Spanish Favorite Thing Right Now Coffee Shops & Sandals About Hello! My name is Melissa and I'm a binge-watching, carrot cake-loving, undercover art aficionado from the West Coast (best coast). I'm excited to explore the Government, Latin American Studies, and Geography departments during my first year at Dartmouth. You can find me studying in the Black Family Visual Arts Center, working or hanging at Novack Café 24/7, and adding to my earring collection at Dartmouth's jewelry studio. Pronouns She/Her/Hers Isabel Burgess Class of 2020 Hometown Tucson, Arizona Academic Program Engineering, Studio Art, Spanish Favorite Thing Right Now My new houseplant: Gerald the cactus About Hey there! I'm Isabel, a '20 from the sunny town of Tucson, Arizona. I spend most of my time at the Thayer School of Engineering, but you can also spot me hanging out with plants and my twin brother in the greenhouse, snapping photos of picturesque Hanover, or drinking iced coffee even during the winter (Arizona habits die hard). I'm an undergraduate advisor for the North Park housing community as well as a member of the marching band, Dartmouth Humanitarian Engineers, and Club Swim. Pronouns she/her/hers Jenny Chen Class of 2021 Hometown Bethesda, Maryland Academic Program Biology and Quantitative Social Science Favorite Thing Right Now Big scarves About Hello! My name is Jenny and I'm a senior at Dartmouth studying biology and quantitative social science. On campus, I also work as a communications intern for the Admissions Office, teach piano to elementary school students through Musical Empowerment, and mentor freshmen in the Great Issues Scholars LLC. My hobbies include reading, attempting to finish crossword puzzles, and embroidering, which I only recently picked up. Welcome to my blog! Pronouns She/Her Alexis Colbert Class of 2019 Hometown St. Louis, MO Academic Program Anthropology Favorite Thing Right Now Black Coffee About Hey everyone! My name is Alexis Colbert and I'm a '19, a senior, with a major in Anthropology and a minor in Women, Gender, Sexuality Studies. I am a Senior Admissions Fellow and the Undergraduate Advisor (UGA) for the Gender Equity Program floor the 2018/19 school year. I have spent three terms abroad throughout my Dartmouth career and worked on a reflective project. In my free time I love to read, drink coffee, work with kids, and explore the arts. Pronouns She/Her Autumn Dinh Class of 2021 Hometown Hanoi, Vietnam Academic Program Double Major Economics and Japanese Favorite Thing Right Now Asian Economy and Japanese Contemporary Literature About Hi hi hi! My name is Autumn and I'm a dreamy writer from Vietnam! Besides my huge (and obvious) passion for writing, I also like reading and cooking (I only cook Asian food though). I love cultures and traditions, so I'm really into majoring in Asian Studies, but I'm also having other options in mind like Media Studies or Econ (I know, who can resist the money-printing major?) And I don't know how to end this bio without sounding awkward so (I guess?) stay put for more posts from me! Pronouns She/Her Kate Domin Class of 2019 Hometown Fountain Hills, AZ Academic Program Art History major with Hispanic Studies minor Favorite Thing Right Now long, sunny summer days! About Hi everyone! I'm Kate! I started off as a pre-med student, but have since shifted gears to follow my passion for art. Before coming to Dartmouth, I had never travelled by myself! Since coming to Dartmouth, I have become a solo-travel expert because I spent 3 terms abroad! Outside of the classroom, I work as a Senior Admissions Fellow, I lead Hill Winds Society, our student-alumni relations group, and I am an active member of my sorority. Pronouns she/her/hers Brian Drisdelle Class of 2021 Hometown Burlington, CT Academic Program Engineering Physics and Economics Favorite Thing Right Now Club Hockey Road Trips About To all you prospies, parents, and plenty more, welcome! My name is Brian—I'm a double-major in Economics and Engineering Physics from a small town in northwestern CT. In my free time, I'm involved in rock climbing, Club Hockey, and writing for different publications across campus. Plus, I'm pretty heavily involved in my Greek House—something which I often tend to detail in my posts—and so I'm always happy to answer questions about the Dartmouth student life in all its different capacities! Pronouns He/Him/His Simon Ellis Class of 2020 Hometown Holualoa, Hawai'i Academic Program Government, Environmental Studies, Philosophy Favorite Thing Right Now Fleetwood Mac About Hey there! My name is Simon and I'm a Senior (which is scary) enjoying my time here in Hanover! In addition to being a Blogger, I am a Tour Guide, I am involved with Greek Life, the German community, Performing Arts, Club Sports, and a bunch of other things on campus! I blog a lot about whatever I am interested in at the moment, and also love to use this as a place to reflect on my time at Dartmouth. I hope you enjoy my blog and let me know if you have any questions! Pronouns He, Him, His Jonathan Gliboff Class of 2020 Hometown Rockaway Park, New York Academic Program Government and Middle Eastern Studies Favorite Thing Right Now Beatboxing About Hey all! I'm Jonathan, a soon-to-be senior, and I'm double majoring in Government and Middle Eastern Studies. Outside of academics, I am a senior admissions fellow, a tour guide, one of the editors-in-chief of the Dartmouth Jack-O-Lantern (our comedy publication), co-president of Chabad (a Jewish organization), and a very casual fencer. If I'm not doing one of those things, you can probably find me napping on the Green or trying to make my friends laugh while they study for exams. Pronouns He/Him/His Matthew Goff Class of 2018 Hometown Hanover, NH Academic Program Neuroscience Favorite Thing Right Now Winter hiking About Hey guys! My name is Matthew. I am a Neuroscience major and an Anthropology of Global Health minor, as well as following the pre-med track. Here at Dartmouth I'm a member of the Triathlon Team, part of an all-male acapella group called the Dartmouth Brovertones, and a Senior Fellow in the Admissions Office where you may find me giving info sessions or tours. When I'm not doing any of those things, I love playing the cello, reading, and adventuring of any sort in the outdoors! Pronouns He/His Michael Green Class of 2021 Hometown Columbia, Maryland Academic Program Biology with a Global Health minor Favorite Thing Right Now The sidewalks being clear About My name is Michael and I graduated from a public high school in a suburb of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. I moved frequently throughout my life, but have spent the majority of it in Maryland. I was introduced to Dartmouth through the Dartmouth Bound summer program. I walked onto the Heavyweight Rowing team in the Winter without previous rowing experience, and have enjoyed it so far. I am always down for talking about sports, public health issues, and transitions in life. Feel free to reach out! Pronouns He/Him Amy Guan Class of 2020 Hometown Princeton, NJ Academic Program Economics Major, Computer Science Minor Favorite Thing Right Now Thai food About Hi! My name is Amy Guan. On campus, I'm involved with the DALI Lab, the Dickey's Center International Business Council, the Thayer Consulting Club, and various music groups through the Hopkins Center. I'm passionate about the arts and social activism, and can always be found with a KAF fruit cup and textbook on Third Floor Berry or running from practices at the Hop to meetings in Sudikoff with a Collis smoothie (all fruit except for bananas and guava juice, please and thank you!) in hand. Pronouns She/her Michael Harrison Class of 2024 Hometown Smithtown, New York Academic Program Undecided Favorite Thing Right Now Exploring Dartmouth's beautiful campus—while practicing social distancing and wearing a mask, of course! About I'm Michael Harrison '24 and I'm thrilled to be starting my college career at Dartmouth! Coming from my suburban hometown on Long Island, it's great to explore a place that is so geographically (and culturally) different. This year will be unlike any other, but I've already connected with wonderful classmates and faculty through FYSEP and New Student Orientation. I'm currently undecided on a course of study, but I'll be taking writing, mathematics, and economics courses this fall! Pronouns he/him/his Manny Howze-Warkie Class of 2018 Hometown Cleveland, Mississippi Academic Program Sociology Modified with African and African American Studies Major; Film and Media Studies Minor Favorite Thing Right Now Studying in the greenhouse on campus About Hello, I’m Manny. You may have noticed my D Plan looks a bit different. I’m a Navy Reservist and took some time off for training, so I’ll be graduating with the Class of 2020. Although I’m not a music major, I spend a big chunk of my free time in the Hopkins Center for Arts for voice lessons, accapella rehearsal, and Glee Club rehearsal. Pronouns He/Him Kaj Johnson Class of 2022 Hometown Minneapolis, MN Academic Program Undecided Favorite Thing Right Now Travis Scott's new album, "Astroworld" About Hey everyone! My name's Kaj (pronounced "ky"). I'm from Minneapolis and attended a diverse inner-city public school. I'm a lifelong distance runner and also love writing and singing. I’m considering majors in Music, English, or Philosophy. I chose to attend Dartmouth because of its emphasis on a well-rounded education — and being from Minnesota, the cold winters weren't a deterrent! I'm excited to share with you all my candid ups and downs as I venture through college life. Pronouns He/Him Lamees Kareem Class of 2022 Hometown Jeddah, Saudi Arabia Academic Program Economics/Government/Middle Eastern Studies? Favorite Thing Right Now The Green, beautifully covered in snow About I am an arts -lover and passionate debater still navigating my way through Dartmouth. I have also been, slowly but surely, adjusting to Hanover’s weather from Saudi’s constant heat (and learning the importance of layers and insulation). I draw editorial cartoons for The Dartmouth, our college newspaper, and am interested in everything and anything related to foreign affairs! This time of the year, you will likely find me gazing at the snow outside a window in Baker-Berry Library. Pronouns She/Her/Hers Gabrielle Kirlew Class of 2018 Hometown Bowie, MD Academic Program Anthropology and Quantitative Social Science Favorite Thing Right Now Prison Break (only 10 years late) About Hello! I'm Gabrielle and I was born and raised in Prince George's County, MD (right outside of Washington D.C.). At Dartmouth, I study Anthropology and Quantitative Social Science, which I love because it allows me combine quantitative and qualitative thinking. My favorite pastimes of the moment are running, baking carrot cake, stir frying and binge listening to audiobooks and podcasts (shoutout to Modern Love & Majority 54). Pronouns She/Her Sarah LeHan Class of 2020 Hometown Darien, CT Academic Program History, Anthropology modified with Creative Writing Favorite Thing Right Now My internship in London! About After considering similar schools, I decided on Dartmouth for its outing club, study abroad program, psychology and brain sciences department, and—let’s face it—the dining hall’s infamous chocolate chip cookies. While my exact major plans are still a work in progress, I am currently thinking history with minors in anthropology and creative writing with a focus (much to my parents’ chagrin) on the pre-modern era. Pronouns She/her Chiemeka Njoku Class of 2018 Hometown Dallas, TX Academic Program Government major, Pre-med Favorite Thing Right Now Reggaeton About What up! My name is Chiemeka, and I’m from Dallas, Texas. I am currently a senior at Dartmouth and I’m also a pre-med government major. In my time here, I’ve been able to do some amazing things like study in India, Washington D.C, and intern in Kosovo, and I can’t wait to share those experiences with you! I’m involved with Dartmouth EMS, academic journalism, and spoken word poetry, and in my free time I like to play pick-up soccer and take naps! Pronouns She/Her Colleen O'Connor Class of 2019 Hometown Buffalo, NY Academic Program Asian & Middle Eastern Studies Modified with Economics Major; Human-Centered Design Minor Favorite Thing Right Now "How I Built This" Podcasts from NPR About Hi! I'm Colleen! So far, I've studied abroad in China and Peru, interned at a start-up in Mexico City, worked in Beijing, China, and completed non-profit consulting projects in Peru and Japan with the Tuck School of Business. I'm currently working on a two-year project to promote female empowerment through entrepreneurship in South America and East Asia. When I'm not traveling, you can find me advising the DEN, exploring the Upper Valley, or debating the outcome of The Bachelor with friends. Pronouns She/Her Andra Pantelimon Class of 2022 Hometown ~Bucharest~ Academic Program ~Unknown(yet)~ Favorite Thing Right Now ~fall, thunderstorms, chillin', music, cool rocks~ About Henlo fren'! I’m Andra(’22), one of the new bloggers around. I’m from Bucharest, Romania, and my home-for-the-year is within the Thought Project LLC. Feel free to ask me about that or about what it’s like being an international from an under-represented country on campus. I’m an undeclared major, like so many other freshmen at Dartmouth, and have a bunch of passions I don’t have enough space to write about here, but which I’ll tackle little by little on my blog. Just keep reading! Pronouns ~she/her/hers~ Anna Reed Class of 2019 Hometown Oklahoma City, OK Academic Program Anthropology and Spanish Favorite Thing Right Now Mango About Hey everyone! I'm Anna! I'm one of the Senior Admissions Fellows which means I'm graduating this Spring. With my two majors, I do research on Educational Equity in Cusco, Peru, where I'll be this fall writing my Thesis. In my free time you can find me in a garden with my water colors!! Pronouns She/Her Emma Rodriguez Class of 2020 Hometown Miami, FL Academic Program WGSS and SART double major Favorite Thing Right Now Ramunto's Pizza About Hi! I'm Emma and I'm a junior on the Dartmouth Triathlon Team. I love walks around Occom Pond in the fall, browsing books of poetry at the Dartmouth Bookstore, and drinking tea at Dirt Cowboy. Some of my favorite things are astrology, tattoos, vintage denim, and vegetarian food. I'm passionate about feminism and social justice, and I am part of several sexual violence prevention/response groups on campus. My favorite foods are Ramunto's pizza and Ben & Jerry's Half Baked ice cream. Pronouns She/Her TaeJun Seo Class of 2022 Hometown Tokyo, Japan Academic Program Government major, Public Policy minor Favorite Thing Right Now FOCO cookies & ice cream! About Hi! I'm TaeJun (but my friends call me TJ), and I come from the beautiful city of Tokyo, Japan. Although I am Korean by nationality, I have lived in Japan for over ten years due to my dad's work. I am a huge theatre/musical geek, and I have a long bucket list of Broadway musicals that I want to get around to very soon! I also love traveling, and I hope to crisscross the globe through Dartmouth's amazing study abroad and foreign study programs. Pronouns He, Him, His Cindy Shen Class of 2021 Hometown Salt Lake City, Utah Academic Program Economics Favorite Thing Right Now Zoom sessions with my closest friends! About Hello there! I am an avid doodler and caffeine addict who can be spotted 24/7 at KAF (the coffee shop in Baker-Berry Library). I've grown up skiing in the Rockies, so I'm a hype man for low temp activities like throwing snow at friends and carving ice sculptures (yes, I actually did that!). Aside from blogging, I am an economics teaching assistant, design mobile, web, and VR apps for Dartmouth's DALI Lab, and travel around with the fencing and debate teams for competitions. Pronouns She/Her Julia Snodgrass Class of 2021 Hometown Williamsburg, MA Academic Program Environmental Studies and Spanish Favorite Thing Right Now Ben & Jerry's 'The Tonight Dough' ice cream About Hey friends! I'm Julia, a '21 from Western Massachusetts. I hope that this blog helps shed some light on what life as a Dartmouth student is like. I've been a ski instructor, digital designer, mentor for middle schoolers, and Academic Assistant at the Irving Institute for Energy and Society. I've also spent terms abroad in Spain, Namibia, South Africa and New Zealand. On campus, I love to longboard around Occom Pond, eat takeout by the river, and get up egregiously early for sunrise hikes! Pronouns She/her/hers Julianna Thomson Class of 2020 Hometown Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario, Canada Academic Program Religion Major Favorite Thing Right Now Photography About Here on campus, most people know me as "Jul"! I am a Religion major who is interested in eventually working in the field of law. At Dartmouth, I am a sister of Alpha Phi, a current member of the varsity Track and Field team, and also played a year on the varsity Basketball team. When I'm on campus, my favourite things to do are get breakfast at Lou's and go to football games. When I'm not on campus, my favourite things to do are travel and visit my family and friends. Pronouns She/Her Yadira Torres Class of 2019 Hometown Santa Ana, CA Academic Program Latinx Studies, Pre-Health Favorite Thing Right Now Adobe Illustrator! About Hi! My name is Yadira and I'm a Latinx Studies major from Santa Ana, CA. I chose Dartmouth because of the close-knit community, beautiful campus, and amazing traditions. I've been able to travel to other schools for conferences, meet presidential candidates, and work in a multitude of departments on campus. When I'm not taking naps in the Stacks or perfecting my Collis salad, you can find me practicing graphic design, watching documentaries about food, or hanging out at my sorority. Pronouns She/Her Jasmine Williams Class of 2020 Hometown Brockton, MA Academic Program Sociology Major, Education Minor Favorite Thing Right Now Frank Ocean (always) About Hello everyone! My name is Jasmine Williams and I am a '20 with a major in Sociology and a minor in Education. I am a Senior Admissions Fellow and an Associate Fellow of the Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship. I have completed two "Hanover FSPs" during my time at Dartmouth and used to be a coxswain for the Women's Varsity Rowing team. During my free time, I love to hang out with friends and listen to music! Pronouns She/Her Claire Young Class of 2021 Hometown Wright City, Oklahoma Academic Program Religion and History double major with a modification in Native American Studies Favorite Thing Right Now Rewatching Bridgerton! About Halito! Wondering how a small-town Oklahoma, Native girl ended up at Dartmouth? Well, you've come to the right place! My name is Claire, I'm a proud Chahta ohoyo (Choctaw woman), and I'm a Senior Admissions Fellow. You can find me in the library studying for History/Native American Studies courses or reading about Indigenous religions! I'm a DREAM mentor, involved in Greek Life, and an Undergraduate Advisor. I love to travel and read for pleasure. If you see me around, say hello! Pronouns She/her Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback