WSU Cougar Head Logo Washington State University Give Apply Now Locations MyWSU Your Road to College Starts Here Let’s Go! WSU system-wide will require proof of the COVID-19 vaccination for the 2021 and 2022 academic years for all students engaging in activities at a WSU campus or location. For more information, including exemptions, please visit Washington State University (wsu.edu). We Want You at WSU At Washington State University, we forge lifelong friendships, build bridges across cultures and produce life-changing research. With six campuses across the state known for unique areas of study and access to industry, we are confident that no matter your background, we have a path that suits you. Find your personal admission counselor today at rep.wsu.edu. Find Counselor Admissions Presentations Learn more about WSU Pullman with virtual presentations and events with our staff, and even chat with one of our Cougar Connectors. Learn More Visit Explore WSU in-person or virtually with video, photos and downloadable view books. Visit Introduce Yourself We would like to get to know you better. Fill out this form to receive more information about WSU. Request Info Ready to apply? Learn how to become a #FutureCoug with a few easy steps. Apply Now See why students just like you chose WSU Pullman How to Apply Apply for admission by January 31 – apply.wsu.edu Upload your high school transcripts with your application Pay the $70 application fee or apply for a fee waiver Complete the General Scholarship Application by January 31 – scholarships.wsu.edu Submit your FAFSA or WASFA by the January 31 priority date – https://financialaid.wsu.edu/getting-started/ Are you a transfer student? Learn all you need to know about being a transfer student at WSU Even though you can’t join an in-person campus tour right now, we have the next best thing. Get a glimpse of our favorite spots on the Pullman campus with WSU Graduate Student, Yazzmin Chavez. Take the Tour Explore Pullman Take a virtual tour of the beautiful WSU Pullman campus. explore.wsu.edu Academics academics.wsu.edu At WSU Pullman, you can do anything. Explore academic offerings across 95 majors, 86 minors, and more than 100 in-major specializations. Honors College If you’re a high-achieving student who likes to take on a challenge, you could be a candidate for our Honors College. Offering smaller, discussion-based classes with a global focus, Honors College students grow to serve their community and the world through their studies at WSU. You can major in any field and still graduate in four years. honors.wsu.edu Study Abroad Have you dreamed about visiting all the continents around the world? Join the ranks of WSU students who have taken part in over 500 study abroad opportunities across all 7 continents, providing amazing adventures, cultural immersion and academic credit. ip.wsu.edu/study-abroad Undergraduate Research As a Tier 1 research university, WSU faculty and students spearhead groundbreaking research. You can also be a contributor to this work. Study links between bats and viruses, develop sustainable biofuel from tree branches, or create innovative products like the Cosmic Crisp® apple. Our faculty-mentored research experiences are available to students in all majors—not just sciences. There are opportunities year-round, at every level and interest. How will you change the world? undergraduateresearch.wsu.edu Professional Degrees Do you have dreams of improving lives in the medical field, being the CEO of a Fortune 500 company or saving kittens? WSU has professional degrees that can get you there, no matter your passion. These programs are specially designed to prepare students to work in a particular field, such as pharmacy or veterinary medicine. gradschool.wsu.edu/professional-degrees Committed to Giving Back Students 9,000+ Hours 85,000+ On average, nearly half of undergraduates donate over 85,000 community service hours each year. Average GPA 3.46 The average High School GPA coming to WSU. Student to Faculty 16:1 Average student to faculty ratio in classes. Hannah Goodspeed I was hoping everything I heard about WSU was true, and it was. Everyone here cares about the school and each other. This feels like home, but almost better because there are more people and it’s louder! Campus Living housing.wsu.edu Studies show that living on campus improves student success. That’s why we require all first-year Pullman students to live on campus for one year. You have your choice of living options to fit your lifestyle. Our 20 residence halls range from gender-inclusive to coed, rooms with private bathrooms, and single or double occupancy rooms, just to name a few. And you can walk from your residence hall to nearly any class, activity or event in minutes. WSU also offers nine apartment buildings with one, two or three-bedroom apartments, as well as family or graduate student buildings. Just like our residence halls, WSU apartments are within walking or biking distance to classrooms across campus. In addition, all students receive free public transportation with complimentary Coug bikes and Pullman Transit serving both on- and off-campus routes. 24% of students participate in Greek life WSU’s Greek system is made up of 60+ Greek letter organizations with nearly 5,500 members. Ranging from men’s and women’s social chapters to professional and multicultural organizations, our students come together to celebrate culture and support our campus community. Learn more about going Greek at gogreek.wsu.edu. Student Organizations 400+ 75+ intramural/sports, 40+ culturally-based, and 20+ faith-based; you’ll find your club. Cultural Centers 4 Student cultural centers are available both virtually and in-person. First-gen 32% of all students are first generation. Multi-cultural Students 35% of all students come from multi-cultural backgrounds. Living in Pullman Pullman offers a mix of on- and off-campus activities, including free movies at the CUB, a strong music scene and Pac-12 athletics, plus a charming sense of small-town friendliness. Dine at a locally owned pub or a restaurant with classically trained chefs and menus filled with local delicacies. Getting to Pullman Located in the hills of Eastern Washington, Pullman is easier to access than you may think: 5-hour drive from Seattle 1-hour flight from Seattle to the Pullman-Moscow Airport 1-hour flight from Portland to Spokane Student Population 62% With a population of more than 34,000, 62% are students. Sunny Days 172 Average high temps: August 84° October 60° January 37° April 57° Mountains 7 Surrounded by beautiful hiking & biking trails, rivers, and forests. Airports 3 All within a 90 min drive, located in Pullman, Lewiston, and Spokane. Financial Aid and Scholarships financialaid.wsu.edu admission.wsu.edu/scholarships At WSU, we believe cost should never prevent a student from attending our University. During the 2019-20 school year, WSU offered more than $170 million in scholarships, grants, awards and waivers to undergraduate students. With hundreds of scholarships available from both WSU and other organizations across the country, becoming a Coug is closer than you think. Washington residents: Distinguished University Achievement Award – Awarded to Washington resident students with an unweighted minimum 3.8 high school GPA – $4,000 per year for two years. University Achievement Award – Awarded to Washington residents with an unweighted minimum 3.6 high school GPA – $2,000 per year for two years. Cougar Commitment – WSU has committed to covering tuition and mandatory fees for most Washington residents who could not otherwise afford to attend. To see if you may be eligible for this award visit financialaid.wsu.edu/cougar-commitment. Regents Scholars program – High schools in Washington are invited to nominate two of their top students for this scholarship program. Talk to your high school counselor or see the Regents Scholars website for information on eligibility and nominations. admission.wsu.edu/regents-scholarship Crimson Transfer Award – Awarded to WSU Pullman transfer students meeting the transferable credit requirements with a minimum transfer GPA of 3.2 – $2,000 per year for up to three years. Non-residents Cougar Award – Awarded to out-of-state freshmen with a minimum 3.0 unweighted high school GPA – $7,000 per year, renewable for an additional three years. Western Undergraduate Exchange/Distinguished Cougar Award – Western Undergraduate Exchange/Distinguished Cougar Award – Awarded to out-of-state freshmen with a minimum 3.4 unweighted high school GPA – $11,000 per year, renewable for up to an additional three years. Transfer Western Undergraduate Exchange (AKA Cougar Award for Transfers) – Awarded to an out-of-state transfer student meeting the transferable credit requirements with a minimum transfer GPA of 3.0 and qualifying transfer credits – $11,000 per year for up to four years. Resources Search for Scholarships (by Academic Department) Search for Scholarships (by Individual Qualifications) Cougar Money Matters Financial aid estimator and net price calculator Scholarships and Awards FAFSA WASFA/Undocumented Students ESTIMATED YEARLY COSTS* (two semesters) WA Resident Non-WA Resident WUE Recipient Tuition: $10,996 $26,312 $14,702 Mandatory fees: $1,420 $1,420 $1,420 Housing: $6,822 $6,822 $6,822 Dining: $4,300 $4,300 $4,300 Books: $960 $960 $960 Total: $24,498 $39,814 $28,097 *Costs are subject to change. $178 million Total undergraduate gift aid distributed over the 2019-2020 school year $421.8 Million Total scholarships, grants and loans distributed over the 2019-2020 school year WSU Cougar Head Logo Originally created in 1936 by Randall Johnson, the Cougar Head remains a unique and distinguished part of the WSU identity. © Washington State University 2022 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU