Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Campus Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report A Powerful Sense of Place Frequently ranked one of the most beautiful colleges in America, the Dartmouth campus, located on traditional, unceded Abenaki homelands, is renowned throughout the world for its mountain vistas, towering pines, and pastoral setting in the deep green Upper Connecticut River Valley. That natural splendor lends a significant layer to the community's compelling sense of place, but it's just one aspect of what gives this campus its vivid color and energy. Here are a few more facets of the Dartmouth experience. The Dartmouth Green Everything comes together on the Green. It's the pedestrian hub of the campus and the setting for many beloved traditions and activities-Winter Carnival, for example, and a weekly summer farmer's market. The sheer beauty of this grassy expanse, which transforms dramatically with the seasons, enriches the interactions among students, staff, and faculty as they traverse it in the course of their days. Read more about the Dartmouth Green and the school's traditions. Video of Scenes From the First Day of Summer Term Culture of Exploration Students and alumni will tell you that what distinguishes this campus is an effervescent blend of curiosity and action. Our diverse community is continually immersed in multicultural activities from the Pan Asian Council (PAC) meetings to the annual Black Legacy Month presented by the Dartmouth African Students Association (DASA). Hundreds of campus clubs introduce students, faculty, and staff to a broad array of new adventures-for example the Argentine Tango Society, and Spoon, a club focused on experimental cuisine. Learn about campus diversity and Dartmouth's many clubs and organizations. Additionally, Dartmouth's place as a stop on the first-in-the-nation primary campaign trail gives students a unique opportunity not only to meet presidential candidates of all stripes but to share their ideas and concerns with politicians who swing through the state long before the vote to test the waters for a potential candidacy. To learn more about how Dartmouth students discuss the ideas behind the campaigns, check out our 3D feature on Dartmouth's on-campus political climate. Video of Primary Lets Dartmouth Size Up Potential Presidents Baker-Berry Library Built in 1928, the handsome Baker-Berry Library was modeled after Independence Hall in Philadelphia. With 2.5 million books and hundreds of thousands of digital resources, the library is also the location of José Clemente Orozco's dramatic fresco The Epic of American Civilization, a national historic landmark. Every evening at 6 p.m., the bells in the library's tower play the "Alma Mater"-musical requests are accepted for other times of day. One of Dartmouth's most photographed landmarks, the Baker-Berry features dozens of cozy study nooks and signature spaces such as the 1930s room and the Theodore Seuss Geisel Room. The library's Bell Tower also provides some of the most dramatic views of the campus. Check out the Baker Tower webcam. "Of the nine libraries at Dartmouth, Baker-Berry is my favorite. I especially love studying in the Tower Room because it has a Hogwarts feel to it." Ali Reynolds '20, Hermon, ME Natural Connections Students have full access to the Dartmouth boat dock, mountain, lodge, pond, and ski slope—and the Appalachian Trail runs right through campus-so, yes, Dartmouth attracts its share of action-adventurers. But even those who prefer the galleries of the Hood Art Museum to a kayak on the Connecticut River find the fresh, bright air invigorating. Dartmouth's organic farm is a state-of-the-art learning laboratory, a working garden, and the setting for events that the entire community enjoys-fine-tuning recipes for wood-fired pizza, for example. On Friday nights, Shattuck Observatory hosts free viewings of the planets, making Dartmouth's big, beautiful sky even more accessible. Community Within a Community The sweeping 269-acre Dartmouth campus gathers into one walkable community a liberal arts college, a medical school, a school of engineering, a business school, athletic and arts complexes (including a world-class museum), plus a number of cafes and other dining options. Just steps away, the sophisticated college town of Hanover offers restaurants, shops, and a wide array of services. At the edge of campus, the renowned Hopkins Center for the Arts-named by the National Endowment for the Arts as one of the nation's exemplary performing arts centers-integrates the Dartmouth community into downtown life. Review campus maps or take a virtual tour of the campus. Big Green News Feed All News Stories The Strategic Master Plan Is Now Available Online The document will guide the institution's development for the next 30 years. Dartmouth Named One of America's Most Beautiful Colleges Architectural Digest's search for America's most beautiful college campuses includes Dartmouth's architecturally rich buildings. Computer Science Transformation Closer to Reality With $10 Million Gift The gift from Val and Greg Jensen ’96 is earmarked for labs and classrooms in the west end project. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog A letter of appreciation (and following playlist) for my second favorite campus study spot. Read More A Love Letter to Sanborn Eva Hymes 2025 Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback