Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Slides Skip to carousel player controls to pause, play, and advance slides. Videos do not contain audio. Princeton shield Princeton shield Princeton shield Princeton shield Campus Life “The residential and extracurricular experience both supplement and reinforce the lessons of the classroom, building character and skills that last a lifetime.” Christopher L. Eisgruber '83, president of Princeton University Students walking through campus Slider controls Skip to content Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Campus Life Your experiences pursuing personal interests, exploring different activities, having fun with friends and meeting new people can be as important and inspiring as your education at Princeton. Princeton University is committed to building a diverse campus community. Our 5,300 undergraduate students benefit from living and studying at a residential research institution, where faculty and staff devote much of their time and energy to teaching, advising and supporting undergraduates. Princeton University’s 600-acre campus is located in a cosmopolitan town (population 30,000) in central New Jersey, with easy access by train to Philadelphia and New York City, each about 55 miles away. Princeton guarantees students on-campus housing for all four years and 98 percent of students live on campus. During their first two years, all students are required to live on campus in one of six residential colleges, which offers a variety of academic, social, cultural and recreational programs, as well as academic advising. The colleges are designed to give students a residential experience that takes the fullest possible advantage of the diversity and educational opportunities at Princeton. Juniors and seniors who wish to continue living in a residential college may do so, or they may live in junior and senior dormitories; they have a number of dining options that include eating clubs, cooperatives and independent dining. First- and second-year students typically take meals in dining halls in the residential colleges. With more than 500 student organizations, 38 sport clubs, 19 chaplaincies, and several campus centers, the opportunities for students to engage in interests beyond their academic studies abound. Sing with an a cappella group. Perform improv comedy. Join the debate society. Write for the film festival. Try ultimate frisbee. Start quote A diverse community is intrinsic to Princeton's mission to be the world's leading research and teaching university. End quote Diverse Community Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746