Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions We’ve provided the answers to some of the most common questions we receive below. If your questions are not answered below, email us at undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu. What does it mean to be test-optional? NC State will be test-optional for 2023 and 2024 applicants. View the FAQ Application and Missing Items Learn more about fee waivers, submitting transcripts, updating your application, and more. Course Selection and Schedule Changes View our advice for class changes and creating your schedule. Test Scores Learn how to submit test scores and how we consider them in the application review process. Transfer Credit Learn more about your transfer credit report or see how your prior credits may transfer to NC State. Major Selection View tips for selecting a major or how to change your major once your application has been submitted. Residency View FAQ’s about residency as it relates to your NC State admissions application. Admissions Contacts Learn the best way to contact our office or how to get information about NC State. COVID-19 View our most recent updates with the COVID-19 pandemic. Application and Missing Items Two weeks after submitting your application to NC State, you will receive an email with information regarding your applicant portal, wolfPAW. Your wolfPAW account is where you can view your application status, missing items and view your admissions decision once it has been released. Missing items on your wolfPAW account take time to be processed in our system, so give your missing items a couple of weeks to see if they are cleared on your account. If after two weeks your wolfPAW is still notifying you of missing items, call our office and an admissions representative will help you locate your items. Sending Transcripts to NC State North Carolina Public High School Students Students at participating public high schools in North Carolina can request that their final high school transcript sent through CFNC. See if I qualify We will only accept official transcripts – transcripts still in unopened envelopes that were sealed by the issuing institution or sent electronically via a recognized transcript delivery service such as Naviance/Docufide, Scrip-Safe, Avow, National Student Clearinghouse. We are unable to accept official transcripts through fax or attached to an email. High school counselors can submit official transcripts through Common App, Coalition App or slate.org. Arranging for records/transcripts to be sent to NC State is the responsibility of the applicant and not NC State. When ordering via National Student Clearinghouse, make sure to select North Carolina State University for the recipient school, do not order by only using email address. Transcripts sent electronically through secure sending services need to be sent to undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu (National Student Clearinghouse users should select North Carolina State University, do not order by only using email address). Mailing Admissions Materials Use the Postal Information address if your material is sent through the United States Postal Service (USPS). Use the Courier Address if your material is sent through UPS, FedEx, DHL or other shipping carriers. Postal Information Office of Undergraduate Admissions NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Courier Address Office of Undergraduate Admissions NC State University 121 Peele Hall 10 Watauga Club Drive Raleigh, NC 27607 USA Additional Application and Missing Items Information How do I qualify for a fee waiver as a first-year applicant? NC State does not distribute fee waiver codes to applicants; however, there are a variety of ways to qualify for a fee waiver. International applicants are not eligible for fee waivers. Fee Waiver Qualifications To be eligible for a fee waiver, you must meet one of the qualifications below. I am eligible to receive a federal Pell grant. My annual family income falls within the Income Eligibility Guidelines set by the USDA Food and Nutrition Service. My family receives public assistance; I live in federally subsidized public housing, a foster home or homeless. I have received or am eligible to receive an ACT or SAT testing fee waiver. I am enrolled in or am eligible to participate in the Federal Free or Reduced Price Lunch program (FRPL). I am enrolled in a federal, state, or local program that aids students from low-income families (e.g., TRIO programs such as Upward Bound). I am a ward of the state or an orphan. I can provide a supporting statement from a school official, college access counselor, financial aid officer, or community leader. Other economic, family or personal circumstances. Fee Waiver Submission Instructions We encourage first-year applicants to speak with their school counselor about fee waiver documentation. Counselors can submit fee waiver documentation on behalf of first-year applicants through Common App or slate.org. We will also accept documentation from CollegeBoard, ACT or NACAC. This documentation can be submitted by your high school counselor through the application or through email. How do I qualify for a fee waiver as a transfer applicant? NC State does not distribute fee waiver codes to applicants; however, there are a variety of ways to qualify for a fee waiver. International applicants are not eligible for fee waivers. Fee Waiver Qualifications To be eligible for a fee waiver, you must meet one of the qualifications below. I am eligible to receive a federal Pell grant. My annual family income falls within the Income Eligibility Guidelines set by the USDA Food and Nutrition Service. My family receives public assistance; I live in federally subsidized public housing, a foster home or homeless. I have received or am eligible to receive an ACT or SAT testing fee waiver. I am enrolled in or am eligible to participate in the Federal Free or Reduced Price Lunch program (FRPL). I am enrolled in a federal, state, or local program that aids students from low-income families (e.g., TRIO programs such as Upward Bound). I am a ward of the state or an orphan. I can provide a supporting statement from a school official, college access counselor, financial aid officer, or community leader. Other economic, family or personal circumstances. Fee Waiver Submission Instructions Eligible transfer applicants applying through the NC State Transfer Application can indicate directly on their application that they qualify for a fee waiver. You will be required to list a contact person to verify how you qualify for a fee waiver. This person will submit an electronic form on your behalf verifying that you qualify for a fee waiver. Eligible transfer applicants applying through Common App or Coalition App can indicate on their application that they qualify for a fee waiver. Once the application has been submitted and you have gained access to wolfPAW, you will be required to list a contact person to verify how you qualify for a fee waiver. This person will submit an electronic form on your behalf verifying that you qualify for a fee waiver. How do I qualify for a fee waiver as an active-duty military applicant? Applicants have the opportunity to indicate on the application if they are active-duty military personnel in order to receive a fee waiver for the application fee. There is no documentation required. Contact the Veterans Education Office for more information regarding this process at 919-515-3048 or email veterans-ed@ncsu.edu. I need to make an update to my admissions application. If you need to update or add items to your application after it has been submitted, you can upload the information to your wolfPAW account or email our office at undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu. I sent my transcript/test scores, and my wolfPAW account shows that they are still missing. Once your application and fee have been submitted, it takes a few days for your application to be downloaded by NC State. You will receive an email confirming we have received your application and a link to check your status and view missing items within two weeks. We also encourage you to keep a close eye on your spam folder for an email from undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu during this time period, as it is possible for our emails to end up there. Additionally, it takes about two weeks to process all your documents. Your application may say it is incomplete due to a missing transcript – it can take up to two weeks to be processed, evaluated and entered into the system. Are letters of recommendation required? Letters of recommendation are only required for students applying for Professional Golf Management and the Agricultural Institute. Scholarship applications may also require additional letters of recommendation. For all other academic programs, we consider many factors in our review process and feel we receive the best insight from the essay responses the student submits themselves. While we do not require letters of recommendation, applicants are able to submit them if they choose, and they will be considered along with all other application materials. Since it is not a required material, we do not have guidelines or restrictions on who can write a letter or recommendation or how they should be submitted. If you choose to submit a letter, you can email it to our office or upload it through your wolfPAW account after submitting your application. I’m enrolled in my first semester of college and can’t obtain an official copy of a transcript until I complete the semester. What can I do? We encourage you to contact our office at undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu or 919-515-2434 to speak with an admissions officer. I want to apply for Summer, but I don’t see it as an option on the application. To apply for summer, you will need to select your entry term as fall. If admitted, you can email us at undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu to request your application be updated to summer entry. We will then consider you for entry for Summer Session II which begins at the end of June. I’ve been admitted to NC State, and I would like to to defer my enrollment to a future semester/ request a gap term. Admitted first-year and transfer undergraduate students who do not plan to enroll as a full-time student at another institution may request a gap term for a maximum of 2 semesters for any of the following reasons: medical, military service, required religious observance, travel, or work. Email our office at undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu to request more information. Students planning to request a gap term/ defer their enrollment do not need to pay the enrollment deposit until the semester they plan to enroll. Transfer Credit Limits Applicants admitted for fall who defer their enrollment to spring are able to take up to two courses at another institution during the fall semester. Applicants admitted for fall who defer their enrollment to the next fall are able to take up to two courses during the fall semester and up to two courses in the spring semester (no more than four courses during the gap year). Gap Term Request Deadlines If you are interested in deferring your enrollment/ taking a gap term, please email our office at undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu to request a “GAP Request Form” be placed on your wolfPAW account. Students admitted for the fall semester who are requesting a gap term must submit the “GAP Request Form” through wolfPAW by August 1. Students admitted for the spring semester who are requesting a gap term must submit the “GAP Request Form” through wolfPAW by December 1. What needs to be included on a transcript for home-schooled student? Transcripts for home-schooled students should include the following items: Name of home school, applicant’s name, date of birth, expected graduation date or final graduation date Name of each course taken in grades 9-12 (if they have attended the home school for all four years) Any honors, AP or dual enrollment courses If the student has taken dual enrollment courses, list the institution where the classes were taken. Number of hours/units earned for each course, grades earned and a cumulative GPA A grading scale The transcript must be signed and dated by the home school administrator. Transcripts should be submitted by the home school administrator through the Common App or Coalition App, or they can be mailed in a sealed envelope from the home school administrator. Major Selection At NC State, we admit students directly into the major they select on the application. First-year applicants can select up to two major choices on the application based on your interests, while transfer applicants will select only one. Check out our tips for choosing your major here. For first-year applicants, some majors on the application are first-choice majors only and cannot be selected as second-choice majors. Applied Math Architecture Art and Design Engineering majors Fashion and Textile Design Graphic Design Industrial Design Mathematics Physics Professional Golf Management Statistics How do I change my major on my application? If you have not received an admission decision, you can request to change your major by emailing our office at undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu from the email account that you applied to NC State. Once updated, the change will be reflected on your wolfPAW account. Early Action Major Change Deadline: December 1 Regular Decision Major Change Deadline: February 15 If you have received an admission decision, we will consider your major change request but it will not have an effect on your current admission decision. If you are admitted, we will review your requested major on a space available basis. You will need to submit your major change request by emailing our office by the following deadlines: Fall Admission: June 1 Spring Admission: July 1 Is there an undecided major option for transfer applicants? There is not an undecided major option for transfer applicants. Transfer applicants must select a specific major on the application. View all majors here. What first-year programs does NC State offer? First-year applicants have the opportunity to explore major options through one of our unique first-year programs. These programs include Exploratory Studies, Life Sciences First Year, Engineering First Year, Management First Year and Environmental First Year. Learn more about the different programs here. Test Scores NC State is test-optional for 2023 and 2024 applicants. Learn more about test score consideration here. We’ve answered frequently asked questions about test scores below. Which SAT/ACT scores, from which test dates, will you consider? Any test scores we have received by the time we read your application will be considered. All materials, including test scores, should be received no later than two weeks after the application deadline for your application to be complete for review. We cannot guarantee test scores received after the materials deadline will be considered in your application review. Early Action Deadline October SAT – Scores should be received in time to be considered for the early action deadline. November SAT – Scores will not be received in time to be considered for the early action deadline. October ACT Dates – We cannot guarantee scores from all October test dates will be received in time for consideration if you apply by the early action deadline as it can take 2-8 weeks for scores to be released. We will consider any scores we have on file at the time your application is reviewed. Regular Decision Deadline The December SAT and ACT are the last test dates we will be able to consider for our Regular Decision deadline. The SAT college code for NC State is 5496 and the ACT college code for NC State is 3164. How do I report my SAT/ACT scores? You should self-report your test scores on your application. After you have applied, any additional test scores can be added on your wolfPAW account. We will not accept standardized test scores on your high school transcript. If you ultimately enroll at NC State, official SAT or ACT test scores will be required and should be sent directly from the testing agency. SAT Essay or ACT Writing scores are not required. The SAT college code for NC State is 5496 and the ACT college code for NC State is 3164. Are international students required to submit the SAT or ACT? Submitting SAT or ACT test scores is optional for international students. However, if international students choose to submit SAT or ACT test scores, the scores must be sent directly from the testing agency. International students who live outside the U.S. or who have NOT attended a U.S. high school since grade 9 are required to submit one of the following scores for proof of English proficiency: TOEFL, IELTS Academic or Duolingo English Test. The test scores must be sent directly from the test agency. The SAT college code for NC State is 5496 and the ACT college code for NC State is 3164. How do I submit my AP exam scores to NC State? AP scores are not required or considered in the review process for first-year applicants*, however, if you would like to receive credit for your AP course, you must submit your AP score from the College Board. Learn more about sending your AP scores here. To send your AP score report to NC State, you must complete the following steps. Sign in to My AP using your College Board username and password. Go to My AP Profile and select “Score Send.” Type in North Carolina State University. When it appears on the list, select it and hit save. Your score report will include your AP scores from this year and any previous years. *Transfer applicants are encouraged to submit any AP scores for consideration in the review process. See how AP course credit is awarded at NC State here. Course Selection and Schedule Changes Our office doesn’t offer advice on proposed schedule changes. If you are considering a schedule change, we would urge you to discuss it with your school counselor to consider the impact of the change and to ensure you will still meet the UNC System Minimum Course Requirements (MCR). What classes should I take at my current high school? We encourage all students to enroll in a challenging curriculum throughout high school. If a student has been admitted to the university in their senior year or is awaiting a final decision, we still expect ALL students to pursue and maintain the highest level of academic success. Students should be aware that we have the right to re-review, change or rescind a decision if it is determined that the student has not maintained the appropriate level of academic rigor or performed at the level of their academic ability throughout their senior year. You can look at everything we consider in the application review process here. I’m interested in transferring to NC State and am changing my course schedule at my current school. What classes should I take? When considering changes to your course schedule, we encourage you to speak to your advisor and review the recommended coursework for the academic program you are interested in. If you make any changes to your course schedule, make sure to email us so we can update your application. Transfer Credit An official evaluation of your credits will be not be completed until you apply and submit your official transcript. A transfer credit summary will be available to admitted transfer students. Newly enrolled first-year applicants taking dual enrollment courses in high school or attending an early college should submit an official final college transcript by July 15. We will then evaluate your courses and apply transferable credit towards your degree. View how to submit your official transcript here. How do I know if my college or dual enrollment credits transfer to NC State? Dual Enrollment We do not require your dual enrollment transcript when you apply, but you will need to submit an official final college transcript if you decide to enroll at NC State and would like credit for your college coursework. Review our transfer course credit database to see how your courses will transfer. Prior to registering for courses, we encourage you to utilize the database to select courses that transfer to NC State. Transfer Applicants We will evaluate your transcripts once you apply to the institution and you will be provided a transfer credit report if you are admitted.* Only courses from a regionally accredited institution are eligible for evaluation and you must receive a grade of a C- or higher to receive credit. For more information on transferable credit, we encourage you to visit our Credit Opportunities page. *International Transfer Applicants We are unable to determine how many of your credits will transfer to NC State when you apply. If you are admitted, and once you decide to attend, your department will then determine how many of your non-U.S. university credits will transfer toward your degree. You will need to have a course-by-course evaluation completed by World Education Services (WES) and have it submitted to our office. How do I find my transfer credit report? Transfer students who are admitted will be able to view a preliminary transfer credit report on MyPack Portal. Some of your courses may still be under review, but you are able to see a preliminary report to view how your credits will transfer. How will a pass/fail grade affect my transferable credits? During the semesters associated with COVID-19 (spring 2020, fall 2020 and spring 2021), NC State will honor pass/fail grades from any regionally accredited institution that an applicant attends. During the application process, pass/fail grades will be reviewed but will not be calculated into your cumulative GPA, which we consider in the application review process. Transfer credit will be awarded for a “pass” final grade. No transfer credit will be awarded for a “fail” final grade. If you choose to keep your letter grade, courses with a C- or higher will be eligible for transfer credit. A course-by-course evaluation will be conducted of all courses to determine transferability and if you will receive credit at NC State for each transferable course as an elective or direct equivalency. Your academic department will then determine how these credits are awarded to your degree plan. Prior to applying, you can utilize our transfer course credit database to see how your credits may transfer. Residency The Residency Determination Service (RDS) is responsible for all tuition residency classifications, reclassification requests and appeals. To apply for in-state residency consideration for tuition purposes, you must apply through the Residency Determination Service (RDS) for a Residency Classification Number (RCN). At NC State, the application review process is the same for both in-state and out-of-state applicants. As a member institution of the UNC System, only 18% of NC State’s enrolling first-year class can be from outside of North Carolina. Due to the current quantity of out-of-state applications we receive, residency does not impact admissions decisions. Residency is only used for tuition purposes for enrolled students. When should I apply for residency? You can apply for residency at any time throughout your application process. You will need to include your Residency Classification Number (RCN) on your application or through your wolfPAW account after applying. You will be considered out of state for tuition (billing) purposes until you receive a RCN that shows a validated in-state status. Your residency status is valid for 15 months. Where can I find my RCN? You can find your RCN on your Residency Determination Service of North Carolina (RDS) account. To create your account or sign in, visit https://ncresidency.cfnc.org/residency/#/RESlogin. How do I update my residency classification? If you have not received an admission decision, you can enter your RCN through your wolfPAW account. If you have an incorrect RCN on your wolfPAW account, email our office at undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu. If you have already been admitted to NC State, follow the steps below to view/update your tuition classification. Log in to your MyPackPortal and navigate to the section where your residency information is located: Student homepage > Personal Information tile > Residency Information From this screen, verify the RCN displayed is correct. If it isn’t, re-enter it and click “Save RCN.” Once the RCN has been verified as correct, click “Request Residency Data” button to pull the latest information from RDS. If the tuition residency reads as in-state and there is a Y next to Match and a Y next to Validated, the student will be paying in-state tuition. If there is a N next to Match, it may mean the RCN on file with RDS does not match the information the student has provided. If there is a N next to Validated, RDS has not validated the in-state status yet, and it will be updated in the next few weeks. If your expiration date is before the start of the fall semester, your residency status will show as out-of-state. You will need to complete the residency form again through RDS before the expiration date if you believe you should have in-state tuition status. Who do I contact if I have questions about my residency? Undergraduate Admissions no longer makes any residency determinations. As of February 20, 2017, all undergraduate residency decisions are made by the Residency Determination Service of North Carolina (RDS). For more information about the residency process and answers to some frequently asked questions, visit https://ncresidency.cfnc.org/residencyInfo/. University and Undergraduate Admissions Contacts All of our admissions officers are able to assist with any questions you may have. We do not have admissions counselors assigned to specific regions or schools. You can email us with any questions at undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu and one of our admissions officers will get back to you as soon as possible. How do I contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions? View the best method for contacting our office here. How do I get more information about NC State? Complete our interest form at go.ncsu.edu/interest-form to receive personalized communication about NC State. We will contact you regarding upcoming application deadlines, events and when the admission application is available! I’d like to meet with an admissions counselor. There are a variety of ways to connect with an admissions counselor. You can speak with a member of our staff by calling or emailing our office. COVID-19 NC State continues to work with county and state health officials to monitor and respond to the evolving Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. Due to its impact, NC State has implemented changes and accommodations to facilitate the admissions process and protect the health and safety of our students. With the safety of our guests and staff as our top priority, we encourage you to connect with our staff by phone, email or a one-on-one virtual meeting. To speak with an admissions officer call 919-515-2434, Monday – Friday, 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. ET or email us at undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu. We encourage you to visit ncsu.edu/coronavirus for more information on campus updates. Have additional questions? There are a variety of ways to get your questions answered no matter where you are. Hours: Monday – Friday, 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Email: undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu Phone: (919) 515-2434 Contact us Students walk towards the Talley Student Union, framed by flowering trees during springtime. Photo by Marc Hall Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.