Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Enroll Take your place. Here’s what’s next. Being admitted to The University of Texas at Austin is a major accomplishment. What’s next? A lot, actually. From securing your housing to completing your application for financial aid, there are a number of steps to complete after you’re #gonetotexas. Find out more about orientation, getting Longhorn ready and finding your place on the Forty Acres. Weighing Your Offer Once you’ve been admitted—probably to several universities—it’s important that you carefully consider your offers to find the future that’s the right fit for you. Let us help you weigh factors such as academic quality, cost, location and more. Learn More After-Admission Checklist You’ve earned admission to The University of Texas at Austin, and you’re decided on becoming a Longhorn. What’s next? From accepting your offer to registering for orientation, let us help you with the details. Learn More Texas Parents Unite! Are you a parent who’s looking to get involved, or just to get informed? Texas Parents offers opportunities to connect with other Longhorn families committed to supporting their students. They also host Family Orientation, a program designed to introduce you to the university and its resources—all while your student attends his or her first day of UT Orientation. admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022