Enrollment Services departments are open for in-person and virtual services. Please check the Enrollment Services Update page for hours, service offerings, and contact methods. For the latest campus reopening plans, safety guidelines, and requirements, visit Campus Return. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quick Access MyUCR Admitted Students First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Cost to Attend About Riverside Publications Videos Get UCR in Your Inbox Contact Us UC Riverside Undergraduate Admissions UNIQUE. COMMITTED. REAL. Search Home Admissions First Year Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR Resources & Support Dates & Deadlines Meet Your Counselor Virtual Events Request Information Transfer Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR Transfer Admission Guarantee Majors Preparation Guide 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 Resources & Support Dates & Deadlines Meet Your Counselor Schedule An Appointment Virtual Events Request Information Out-of-State Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR Out-of-State First Year Out-of-State Transfer Resources & Support Dates & Deadlines Meet Your Counselor Virtual Events Request Information International Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR International First Year International Transfer Visa & Entry Requirements Dates & Deadlines Resources & Support Meet Your Counselor Virtual Events Request Information Community Engagement Outreach Black Student Experience Chicanx Latinx Student Experience Middle Eastern Student Experience Native American Student Experience Blue, Gold & Black Podcast Veterans & Military Affiliated Former Foster Youth Parents/Guardians Counselors Admitted Students Cost First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Majors I Want to Major In ... Engineering Humanities Sciences Education Business Medicine Public Policy Dates & Deadlines First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Visit Campus Tours Virtual Tours Getting to UC Riverside About Riverside Campus Tours FAQ Events Events at UCR Slice of Life First Year: Virtual Events Transfers: Virtual Events College Fairs Virtual Admission Presentations Slice of Life News Contact Us UCR Home Quick Access MyUCR Admitted Students First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Cost to Attend About Riverside Publications Videos Get UCR in Your Inbox Contact Us International Breadcrumb International International Quick Links Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR International First Year International Transfer Visa & Entry Requirements Dates & Deadlines Resources & Support Meet Your Counselor Virtual Events Get UCR in Your Inbox Zoom Backgrounds Follow Your Dreams to California. We know you are capable of great things, and we want to be a part of your academic and professional success. Our award-winning faculty will mentor you. Our diverse campus community will embrace you. And our international-student resources will help you build your future! Sunny Southern California invites you to make the University of California, Riverside (UCR), your home away from home. We've been waiting for a Highlander like you. Apply to UCR today! International (First Year & Transfer) You are considered an international applicant if you are not a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. U.S. citizens or permanent residents, who have completed coursework outside the United States, should follow the international admissions requirements for the country in which the coursework was completed. UCR's admissions selection process is the same for both international and U.S.-educated applicants. If you have questions about your specific situation, please contact an international admissions counselor and we will help! Keep Connected. Stay Informed. There are many ways to learn more about life at UCR and the United States. Use the buttons below to register for an upcoming webinar or chat session, message an international student, or speak to an international admissions counselor. You can also connect with us on WeChat: ucr_uga. And check out our new digital backgrounds! Download your favorites to use with a selfie to show you're a UCR Highlander at heart. They also make great backgrounds for your next video chat or Zoom meeting. International Financial Aid, Costs & Fees The cost of attending UCR is extremely competitive with private institutions and other University of California campuses. Expenses associated with living in Riverside are considerably less than those of nearby metropolitan areas, such as Los Angeles, Orange County, and San Diego. Read on to learn more about the programs available to help you pay for your UCR degree and how much that degree costs. University of California Tuition Stability Plan Beginning fall 2022, tuition will be adjusted for each incoming undergraduate class but will subsequently remain flat until the student graduates, for up to six years. Learn more. Financial Aid Grants, scholarships, and other awards are available to qualified students to help cover some of the cost of attending UCR, including the following: Achievement Scholarship Admitted international first year and transfer students are automatically considered for the Achievement Scholarship with their acceptance to UCR. No additional forms, paperwork, or applications are required to receive the scholarship. Top-achieving students can receive up to $4,500 each quarter. go.ucr.edu/nrscholarship UC Riverside Foundation Scholarships The UC Riverside Foundation offers scholarships, fellowships, internships, prizes, awards, and loans to qualifying UCR students. Use the online database to search for aid based on your college, major, financial need, career goals, and more. scholarships.ucr.edu Estimated Costs for Undergraduates View estimated costs for attending UCR including tuition, fees, housing, books, transportation and more. UCR Net Price Calculator Fill out the form at the UCR Net Price Calculator to get an estimate of what your full-time cost of attendance and financial aid package at UCR could be. Message an International UCR Student Get answers to questions about first-year and transfer academic requirements, campus life, and what it is like to live in Riverside, California. If you're having trouble viewing our UCR student chat windows, please allow cookies for the Undergraduate Admissions site or open in a separate window. “I was looking for a university that had a more favorable class size. I enjoy having the opportunity to get to know my lecturers and teaching assistants, and being able to receive valuable guidance and assistance. The atmosphere here is truly amazing. [UCR] really does live up to its title of being one of the most diverse campuses in the United States.” Viresha Perera, from Sri Lanka and the United Arab Emirates Psychology Major Applying to UCR As one of the most prestigious universities in the United States, UCR sets high admission standards. Incoming students are selected based on a wide range of criteria, including academic performance and the potential for success as an undergraduate. Each year we celebrate the valuable perspective of over 1,700 international students at UCR. They represent more than 88 countries and enhance our campus and worldwide community. 3.4 Minimum High School Non-Resident Grade Point Average (GPA) Requirement (2.8 for transfer students) 21:1 Student-to-Faculty Ratio 4.04 Enrolled Academic Years to Degree Completion (UCR Institutional Research Campus Statistics, 2018–19) UC Riverside School Codes Use these codes when sending exam scores to UCR: TOEFL / AP / SAT: 004839 ACT: 0456 International First-Year Students Along with the minimum admissions requirements that California residents must meet, international applicants must also follow these instructions that apply specifically to them. Prepare for admission to UCR with the International First-Year Admission Checklist. Requirements UC Riverside will not consider SAT or ACT test scores when making admissions decisions or awarding scholarships. If you choose to submit test scores as part of your application, they may be used as an alternative method of fulfilling minimum requirements for eligibility or for course placement after you enroll. Details regarding UC’s testing policy can be found online. Comprehensive Review Comprehensive review is the process by which UC Riverside (UCR) evaluates first-year applicants, who meet minimum UC requirements, using multiple measures of achievement and promise, while considering the context in which each student has demonstrated accomplishment. UCR will calculate an Academic Index Score (AIS) for all first-year applicants. The faculty of UCR have designated the measures described below to be used to calculate the AIS. High School GPA—The strength of an applicant’s high school GPA is the strongest indicator that a student will be successful within an academically challenging UC environment. The capped GPA is calculated on the basis of all completed “a-g” courses with extra points added for UC-approved honors courses taken in grades 10 and 11, capped at 8 semesters. A capped GPA considers the extra points earned for honors-level courses and may exceed 4.0 for some students. Advanced Placement (AP) or International Baccalaureate (IB) courses—AP and IB courses prepare students for college-level coursework. Therefore, students who take and do well in these courses tend to have a high probability for success within the UC environment. Eligibility in the Local Context (ELC)—The Eligibility in the Local Context (ELC) program recognizes the individual accomplishments of students in light of the opportunities offered by their particular high school. Low Family Income—Students who demonstrate high academic achievement, despite low socioeconomic status, are likely to exhibit persistence, maturity, and insight. Low family income is determined based on total family members and household income. First-Generation University Attendance— UC-eligible applicants who are the first in their immediate family to attend college are apt to have personal strengths that will contribute to their academic success. Students whose parents have not graduated from a four-year college or university are qualified for first-generation university attendance. English Language Proficiency (International First-Year Students Only) You can demonstrate proficiency by meeting any of the following exam benchmarks. Keep in mind that you must complete one of these exams by December of your final year of high school/secondary school. • Score 24 or higher for the ACT English Language Arts (ELA) • Score 31 or higher on Writing and Language in the SAT • Score 3, 4 or 5 on the AP examination in English Language and Composition, or English Literature and Composition • Score 6 or 7 on the IB Standard Level examination in English (Language A only) • Score 5, 6 or 7 on the IB Higher Level examination in English (Language A only) • Score 6.5 or higher on the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) • Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) examination: - Internet-based test (iBT): Minimum score of 80 or better - Paper-delivered test: Minimum score of 60 or better • Duolingo English Test (DET): Minimum score of 115 Become a More Competitive Applicant Improve essential academic and languages skills with UCR’s Admission Preparation Program (APP) ! Participating in this educational program does not in itself provide preference in admission to the University of California. If you're interested in applying to UCR, view the first-year student admission requirements or the transfer student admission requirements. You can also contact the UCR Undergraduate Admissions office for details about the admission process. Exam Credit Advanced Placement UCR grants credit for all Advanced Placement exams on which a student scores three or higher. Units awarded toward UC graduation may be granted for specific subjects and/or for general education/ breadth requirements, as determined by each campus. AP exams can also be used to meet the minimum transfer admission subject requirements in English, math, and four other courses chosen from the humanities, behavioral/social sciences, and biological/physical sciences. International Baccalaureate The IB organization awards either a diploma or a certificate for individual IB exams. Students who complete the IB diploma with a score of 30 or above will receive 30 quarter (20 semester) units toward their UC degree. Students who receive IB certificates with a score of five or higher on Higher Level exams will receive eight quarter (5.3 semester) units. A-Level Examinations UCR grants credit for the General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advanced Levels (A-Levels), the Cambridge International A-Levels, the Singapore-Cambridge GCE A-Levels (H2), and the previously administered Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination (HKALE), in content-based subjects similar to courses offered at UC and in which grades of A*, A, B, or C are awarded. UCR grants 12 quarter (eight semester) units of credit for academic courses only for GCE, Singapore-Cambridge, and Hong Kong A-Level exams. Exam Credit AP exams with a score of 3 and above IB HL exams with a score of 5 and above High School Coursework You must earn a grade of C or better in all college-preparatory (“a–g”) courses: History/Social Science: 2 years English: 4 years Mathematics: 3 years, 4 recommended Laboratory Science: 2 years (3 years recommended) Language Other than English: 2 years, 3 recommended Visual and Performing Arts: 1 year College-Preparatory Elective: 1 year For country-specific admission requirements, visit international admissions requirements by country or educational system. For questions, visit admissions.ucr.edu/ask. Academic Achievement To meet minimum requirements to be considered for UCR selection, you must earn a minimum GPA of 3.4 on a 4.0 scale (equivalent to an 85 percent on a 100 percent scale). The assessment of a qualifying GPA is based on “a–g” courses (required high school/secondary classes) completed in years 10 and 11. If the high school/secondary school offers a different curriculum, your academic achievement will be based on that educational system’s grading scale. Visa & U.S. Entry Requirements International students need a valid passport, nonimmigrant visa (F-1 or J-1), and the appropriate documentation to study at an accredited university in the United States. Learn more about visa and U.S. entry requirements. Once you are admitted to UCR, the International Students and Scholars (ISS) office will provide support services such as visa assistance and cultural/educational programs, which will help you transition into life in America and life at UCR. How to Apply Gather Your Information Before you begin, find out what important information is needed for an accurate admission application. You can also find information about specific international admission requirements. Then learn about tips and tools that are specific to international first-year applicants. You will need your: Test scores Annual income (optional) Social Security number (if you have one) Citizenship status Statewide student ID (optional) Credit card (or check) Up-to-date browser Learn more about what you’ll need. Order Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) and International English Language Testing System (IELTS) to be sent. Personal Insight Questions Express who you are, what matters to you and what you want to share with us by answering four out of eight personal insight questions. Complete the UC Application The UC application for fall admission to UCR opens on Aug. 1. The fee is $80 for each UC. You can apply for a fee waiver — provided you have your family’s income and the number of people supported by it — when you fill out the application. The fall application filing period is Nov. 1-30. If you have difficulties, contact ucinfo@applyucsupport.net or call (800) 207-1710 (in the U.S.) or +1 (310) 513-2715 (outside of the U.S.). After You Apply Now that you have applied, there are just a few more steps to complete the process. These include printing your receipt, ordering test score reports and updating your application, if needed. UCR Undergraduate Admissions will email instructions on how to access your MyUCR admission portal account. Log in regularly to check your admission status, respond to messages, and track important dates and deadlines. Featured Video UCR: Unique. Committed. Real. Get a world-class education, enjoy year-round fun in Riverside, and explore Southern California from our central location. International Transfer Along with the minimum admissions requirements that California Community College transfers must meet, transfers from international colleges must also follow these instructions that apply specifically to them. Prepare for admission to UCR with the International Transfer Admission Checklist. UCR's admissions selection process is the same for both international and U.S.-educated applicants. Transfer applicants are registered at a college/university for a regular session after high school. Transfer applicants cannot disregard their college record and apply as a first-year student. U.S. citizens or permanent residents, who have completed coursework outside the United States, should follow the international admissions requirements for the country in which the coursework was completed. If you are transferring from a four-year, out-of-state two-year, or UC school, please see special instructions that apply to you. If you are transferring from a California Community College, your admission requirements are outlined below. Requirements Required Units & Minimum GPA You must complete 60 semester (90 quarter) units of transferrable college credit. Admission to UCR is selective, so strive to surpass the minimum. Some major programs require a minimum GPA that is higher than that of basic admission. No more than 14 semester (21 quarter) units may be Pass/Not Pass. Required Community College Classes You need to complete the following seven-course pattern by the end of the spring term prior to fall enrollment at UCR (or the fall term prior to enrollment if you're applying for winter admission): Two transferrable courses in English composition One transferrable course in mathematical concepts and quantitative reasoning Four transferred courses chosen from at least two of these subject areas: arts and humanities, social and behavioral sciences, or physical and biological sciences Each course must be transferrable and worth at least 3 semester (4–5 quarter) units. Use ASSIST.org to see if your classes will transfer before taking them. Students transferring from California Community Colleges can use the UC Transfer Admission Planner (UC TAP) to track your coursework and monitor your progress. You can enter your coursework (completed and planned) from the beginning of your college career (or whenever you decide to transfer to UCR). You should still meet with counselors, as this tool does not replace in-person advising. The UC TAP also serves as your Transfer Admission Guarantee (TAG) application. Exam Credit Advanced Placement We grant credit for all Advanced Placement exams on which a student scores 3 or higher. Units awarded toward UC graduation may be granted for specific subjects and/or for general education/ breadth requirements, as determined by each campus. AP exams can also be used to meet the minimum transfer admission subject requirements in English, math and four other courses chosen from the humanities, behavioral/social sciences and biological/physical sciences. International Baccalaureate The IB organization awards either a diploma or a certificate for individual IB exams. Students who complete the IB diploma with a score of 30 or above will receive 30 quarter (20 semester) units toward their UC degree. Students who receive IB certificates with a score of 5 or higher on Higher Level exams will receive 8 quarter (5.3 semester) units. A-Level Examinations We award credit for the General Certificate of Education (GCE) Advanced Levels (A-Levels), the Cambridge International A-Levels, the Singapore-Cambridge GCE A-Levels (H2) and the previously administered Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination (HKALE), in content-based subjects similar to courses offered at UC and in which grades of A*, A, B or C are awarded. We grant 12 quarter (8 semester) units of credit for academic courses only for GCE, Singapore-Cambridge and Hong Kong A-Level exams. Visa & U.S. Entry Requirements International students need a valid passport, nonimmigrant visa (F-1 or J-1) and the appropriate documentation to study at an accredited university in the United States. Learn more about visa and U.S. entry requirements. How to Get into Your Major For All Majors In general, each major has prerequisite (major prep) coursework that you must take before transferring in order to get into your major. Take the recommended lower-division/general education/breadth classes for your major. Students who transfer from California Community Colleges can take the recommended lower-division/general education/breadth classes for your major. Some programs recommend the Intersegmental General Education Transfer Curriculum (IGETC), which is a series of courses that California Community College students can complete to satisfy first- and second-year general education requirements before transferring. Some programs want you to focus on prerequisites instead of IGETC. Use ASSIST.org to see what your major program recommends or contact a UCR admissions counselor for help. Each major has a minimum GPA requirement. Some majors require a GPA higher than that required for basic admission. Programs are selective. Strive to surpass your program’s minimum GPA. Remember: All transferrable coursework will be taken into account. Marlan and Rosemary Bourns College of Engineering Requirements Breadth Requirements You are strongly encouraged to focus on preparatory course work (mathematics, science, and technical work) for your desired major rather than on IGETC completion. However, the Marlan and Rosemary Bourns College of Engineering (BCOE) does accept completion of IGETC as satisfying the majority of breadth requirements. Additional breadth coursework may be required after enrollment at BCOE. Prerequisites Strong technical preparation is essential for success in the admissions process and, subsequently, in all coursework at BCOE. If you intend to transfer to an engineering major, you are expected to complete the equivalent of UCR coursework required in the first two years of the programs and apply for transfer starting your junior year. Use ASSIST.org to see the prerequisites you must take for your intended major (and to make sure your classes will transfer). Minimum GPA Strive to surpass the 2.8 minimum GPA. Learn more about transferring to BCOE. College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences Requirements Breadth Requirements Complete IGETC or the UCR breadth pattern for the College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences (CHASS). Prerequisites Use ASSIST.org to see the prerequisites you must take for your intended major (and to make sure your classes will transfer). Minimum GPA Strive to surpass the 2.8 minimum GPA. Learn more about transferring to CHASS. Connect with the Transfers First Program for support, advocacy, planning, and more. College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences Requirements Breadth Requirements You are strongly encouraged to focus on completing transferable math and science classes. IGETC is not accepted as a way to complete the required breadth classes for College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences (CNAS). However, courses taken to satisfy IGETC may also go toward completing those requirements. Prerequisites Use ASSIST.org to view the prerequisites you must take for your intended major (and to make sure your classes will transfer). Minimum GPA Strive to surpass the 2.8 minimum GPA. Learn more about being a CNAS student and becoming a new transfer student to CNAS. Graduate School of Education Requirements Breadth Requirements Complete IGETC or the UCR breadth pattern for the Graduate School of Education (GSOE). Prerequisites Use ASSIST.org to see the prerequisites you must take for your intended major (and to make sure your classes will transfer). Minimum GPA Strive to surpass the 2.8 minimum GPA. Learn more about being a GSOE student. School of Business Requirements Breadth Requirements Complete IGETC or the UCR breadth pattern for the School of Business. Prerequisites Complete community college courses equivalent to seven lower division UCR business major requirements as listed on ASSIST.org. Minimum GPA Attain a minimum GPA of 2.8 in all UC-transferable coursework. These GPAs are a baseline for consideration and are not a guarantee of admission. Learn more about being a School of Business student. School of Public Policy Requirements Breadth Requirements Complete IGETC or the UCR breadth pattern for the School of Public Policy (SPP). Prerequisites Use ASSIST.org to see the prerequisites you must take for your intended major (and to make sure your classes will transfer). Minimum GPA Strive to surpass the 2.8 minimum GPA. Learn more about being an SPP student. Click here for more information on major requirements. How to Apply Gather Your Information Before you begin, find out what important information is needed for an accurate winter admission application. You will need your: Transcripts Test scores Annual income (optional) Social Security number (if you have one) Citizenship status Statewide student ID (optional) Credit card (or check) Learn more about what you will need. Answer Personal Insight Questions Express who you are, what matters to you, and what you want to share with us by answering one required and an additional three out of seven personal insight questions. Complete the UC Application The UC application for fall admission to UCR opens on Aug. 1, and the fall application filing period is Nov. 1–30. The UC application for winter admission opens on July 1, and the winter application filing period is July 1–31. The fee is $80 for each UC. You can apply for a fee waiver — provided you have your family’s income and the number of people supported by it — when you fill out the application. If you have difficulties, contact ucinfo@applyucsupport.net or call (800) 207-1710 (in the U.S.) or +1 (310) 513-2715 (outside of the U.S.). After You Apply Now that you have applied, there are just a few more steps to complete the process. These include printing your receipt, ordering test score reports, and updating your application, if needed. UCR Undergraduate Admissions will email instructions on how to access your MyUCR admission portal account. Log in regularly to check your admission status, respond to messages, and track important dates and deadlines. Become a More Competitive Applicant Improve essential academic and languages skills with UCR’s Admission Preparation Program (APP). Participating in this educational program does not in itself provide preference in admission to the University of California. If you're interested in applying to UCR, view the first-year student admission requirements or the transfer student admission requirements. You can also contact the UCR Undergraduate Admissions office for details about the admission process. International Dates & Deadlines Find the dates of instruction at registrar.ucr.edu. Fall Admission: International First-Year and Transfer Students Aug. 1 Access the UC application Sept. 1–30 Submit your TAG application Oct. 1–Nov. 30 Submit your UC application Jan. 31 Deadline to complete the Transfer Academic Update for transfer students March Admission notifications begin Access the next steps to UCR for admitted first-year and fall transfers March 1 Housing contracts become available May 1 First-year deadline to submit your Statement of Intent to Register (SIR) May 10 Deadline to submit housing contract and first payment June 1 Transfer deadline to submit your Statement of Intent to Register (SIR) July 1 Final official transcripts, test scores and supporting documents due to Undergraduate Admissions July 15 Test scores and supporting documents due to Undergraduate Admissions September Fall quarter begins Winter Admissions: International Transfer Students July 1 Access the UC application July 1–31 Submit your UC application September Admission notifications begin Access the next steps to UCR for admitted winter transfer students September Housing: Since campus housing is assigned first-come, first served, it is recommended that you submit your Statement of Intent to Register (SIR), housing contract or application, and first housing payment as early as possible. Oct. 15 Deadline to submit your Statement of Intent to Register (SIR) Nov. 1 Deadline to submit your final transcripts/documents for coursework completed through fall Dec. 1 Deadline to register for winter Highlander Orientation Jan. 15 Deadline to submit final transcript/document for winter January Winter quarter begins Resources & Support UCR is dedicated to your success, and offers a range of programs and resources to support you along your path to a UCR degree. Get guidance from faculty and student mentors. Excel in your courses with the help of a tutor or study group. Connect with a wellness department to take care of your physical, mental, and emotional health. Develop as a leader in a campus organization. Academic Success Make a smooth academic transition to UCR with the guidance of faculty and student mentors through first-year and transfer programs offered by our colleges and schools. For First-Year Students Engineering First Year Learning Community (EFLC) CHASS F1RST: First-Year Experience Programs CNAS Freshman Scholars Learning Communities (FSLC) For Transfer Students BCOE Transfer Transition Program CHASS Transfers F1RST CNAS STEM Connections Program School of Business Transfer Student Mentor Program First-year and transfer students can also register for Student Life's First Year Mentor Program and connect with experienced/trained student leaders who answer questions and provide support throughout your first year at UCR. Admitted Students If you're admitted to UCR, you can ensure a smooth transition by following the next steps for incoming first-year students, fall transfers, and winter transfers. Campus Safety Safety is a top priority at UCR. We have a 24/7, on-campus police department, an emergency notification system that sends text alerts, a no-tolerance policy against sexual violence, and secure residence halls with video surveillance, restricted card access, and live-in staff. At night, our Community Service Officers patrol halls and parking lots, and Campus Safety Escorts accompany students across campus. Career Center Every quarter, the Career Center offers over 70 events, including career fairs, skill-building workshops, employer information sessions, and networking meet-ups with representatives from top companies. Use the Career Center's HandShake tool to search for jobs and internships on campus and off. Take part in Get HIRED (Help International students Reach Employment Destinations), a career-development program that provides career-related, skills-building workshops, information, and resources to international students in support of their U.S. and global job searches Ethnic & Gender Centers Discover community, find mentors and develop as a leader with the eight offices that make up Ethnic & Gender Centers: African Student Programs Asian Pacific Student Programs Chicano Student Programs LGBT Resource Center Middle Eastern Student Center Native American Student Programs Undocumented Student Programs Women's Resource Center Participate in service projects, educational initiatives, and campus celebrations by joining a cultural organization. Learn more about UCR’s commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Housing Learn more about the many on-campus housing options for both international first-year and transfer students. International transfers can also choose to live in our International Village — a globally-minded, all-inclusive community, and share an apartment with visiting students from around the world. If you're interested in living off-campus, visit our About Riverside page, which describes all the different neighborhoods around the city. Find accommodations that fit your needs and preferences. International Students and Scholars (ISS) Office Once you are admitted to UCR, the International Students and Scholars (ISS) Office will provide information on the following: International Student Orientation Visa matters including the Form I-20 U.S. entry Transferring F-1/J-1 Status from another U.S. school Employment options Academic information Course registration Health matters Housing Leadership opportunities Student organizations Cultural adjustment International friendships Classroom culture Money matters Taxes Support services Cultural and educational programs Parents/Guardians As a parent/guardian of a UCR student, you have access to many resources that will help you to support your student during this journey. Learn how to get involved and stay connected, and find out how we will keep your student safe, happy, and healthy. Find out more about the UCR experience with our Parent and Guardian Brochure in English or Parent and Guardian Brochure in Mandarin Play an integral role in your student's UCR experience with the Parents Association. For Student Parents From childcare to housing, transportation to legal services, nurture the development of your family with these campus programs and accommodations. Cub Club invites your child to cheer on the NCAA Division I Highlanders Athletics Program. The annual membership includes free admission to all regular season home athletic events, a birthday card from mascot Scotty, discounts, and more. UCR’s Early Childhood Services (ECS) provides a warm and welcoming environment for children between the ages of two months and five years. Qualifying undergraduate students — primarily Pell Grant recipients — can have full daycare tuition and meals covered for their children. Video Oban Family Housing is a collection of one- and two-bedroom apartment homes directly adjacent to the UCR campus. UCR’s ECS and Riverside’s public and private schools are nearby. Private lactation rooms are available on campus for breast-feeding mothers. Refrigerator, plush seating, and sanitary provisions are provided. R'Kids is a student organization that provides support for students, faculty, and staff who have children, are expecting children, or will have children. Parents can discuss experiences, learn from each other, and offer advice, while their children are involved in activities and entertainment. Scotty Cubs and Parents is a student-parent run support group that creates a safe space for students with families. Discussion topics have included: birthing stories, balancing school, home and baby, parenthood, relationships, academic success, and student life at UCR. Scotty Cubs and Parents is sponsored by the Women’s Resource Center (WRC) and R'Kids . The SRC Child Care program lets you work out at the Student Recreation Center (SRC) while your child (infant through 15 years) plays in the safe and secure child care area. The UCR Family Resource Guide , created by a student-parent group, lists campus and community resources available to student parents, including child care, housing, health, and nutrition. SRC Youth Programs take place during the summer, and introduce children (ages 5–14) to sports and educational instruction. Health, Well-being & Safety UCR focuses on all facets of well-being. We offer many campus resources to help you meet all of your goals, such as support groups, tutoring, community service, employment, emergency food resources, sports, and health care — which is all included in your tuition. Student Life Have fun and make friends! Student Life offers incredible social opportunities with concerts, music festivals, fun fairs, cultural celebrations, guest speakers, film series, theater productions, poets, performers, and more than 500 student organizations! Transportation UCR students can travel Riverside county for free on RTA buses — just register for UPASS! Learn about campus parking, alternative transportation, accessible parking, and more from Transportation Services. Undergraduate Education Undergraduate Education cultivates student success by providing academic support, experiential learning, and research opportunities. Challenge yourself in our rigorous University Honors program. Participate in research projects with our renowned faculty. Intern for a government agency or NGO in Sacramento or Washington, D.C. Create and facilitate your own 1-unit course with R'Courses. Ace your classes and prep for graduate school exams with help from the Academic Resource Center. International Resources Brochures International Admissions Brochure (Flipbook) Parent and Guardian Brochure (English version) Scotty Fun Facts (Nonresident) Checklists International First-Year Admission Checklist International Transfer Admission Checklist International Student Dates and Deadlines Checklist International Student Profiles Asia International Student Profile India International Student Profile Latin America International Student Profile Middle East International Student Profile Translated Brochures International Admissions Brochure (Mandarin version) (Flipbook) Parent and Guardian Brochure (Mandarin Version) (Flipbook) Asia International Student Profile (Mandarin version) Meet Your Counselor For International and Out-of-State Students Mandy Loh Assistant Director of International and Out-of-State Recruitment and Evaluation +1 (951) 827-4410 mandy.loh@ucr.edu Make an Appointment Also speaks: Mandarin Max Traylor International and Out of State Admissions Counselor (951) 827-7229 max.traylor@ucr.edu Make an Appointment Gabriel Hernandez International and Out-of-State Admissions Specialist (951) 827-5492 gabriel.hernandez3@ucr.edu Make an Appointment Also speaks: Spanish David Dai Regional International Recruitment Specialist +1 (951) 827-2708 wei.dai@ucr.edu Also speaks: Mandarin Ashley Swengler International, and Out-of-State Admissions Specialist East Coast Regional (951) 827-1012 ashley.swengler@ucr.edu Make an Appointment Jiaxin (Jenny) Deng International Program Specialist +1 (951) 827-4113 jiaxin.deng@ucr.edu Also speaks: Mandarin Aastha Chhikara India Regional International Recruitment Advisor +91.97177.23722 aastha.chhikara@ucr.edu Also speaks: Hindi Contact A Counselor Apply to UCR Get UCR in Your Inbox Visit UCR CONNECT WITH UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS ADMISSIONS First-Year Transfer Out-of-State International Veterans & Military Affiliated Former Foster Youth Parents/Guardians Counselors Community Engagement Outreach Admitted Students COST First-Year Transfer Out-of-State International MAJORS I Want To Major In Engineering Humanities Sciences Education Business Medicine Public Policy DATES/DEADLINES First-Year Transfer Out-of-State International VISIT Campus Tours Virtual Tours Getting to UC Riverside About Riverside Campus Tours FAQ EVENTS Events at UCR Highlander Days First-Year: Virtual Events Transfer: Virtual Events College Fairs Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-3411 fax: (951) 827-6344 questions: admissions.ucr.edu/ask FIND US Follow Us: Related Links Apply to UC Riverside Athletics - Go Highlanders Events Calendar Financial Aid MyUCR - Admissions Portal Support UCR Students Tartan Soul Visit UC Riverside Disclaimer This information is accurate and reliable at time of posting but may change without notice. Please contact Undergraduate Admissions for the most up-to-date information. Learn about our privacy policy. Campus Security and Fire Safety Report The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act) requires UCR (as an institution of higher education receiving federal financial aid) to report specified crime statistics on college campuses and to provide other safety and crime information to all current and prospective students and employees. The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is available on the Chief Compliance Office website. If you would like a paper copy of the Report, you may contact the Clery Coordinator via email at clery@ucr.edu or by phone at (951) 827-6223. Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel