Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission About Brown Frequently asked questions about Brown Breadcrumb Home Frequently Asked Questions What is the Open Curriculum? Like many institutions dedicated to the liberal arts, Brown encourages its undergraduates to study broadly, to become self-reflective, to engage in community life and to rigorously develop their communication skills. Unlike other American colleges and universities, Brown has no required core curriculum nor distribution requirements that students must complete in order to graduate. Students at Brown have unparalleled freedom to shape their own education and to make their college curriculum a more thorough reflection of their own interests and aspirations. Brown’s Open Curriculum is based on three principles. The first is that students ought to take an active role in their education by assuming responsibility for the direction of their learning. Second, an undergraduate education is seen as a process of individual and intellectual development, rather than simply a way to transmit a set body of information. Last, the curriculum should encourage individuality, experimentation, and the integration and synthesis of different disciplines. The only specific curricular requirements at Brown are that all students must successfully complete at least 30 courses in eight semesters, that every undergraduate must complete at least one concentration program (often called a “major” at other colleges) and that students must be able to demonstrate excellent skill in written English before they graduate. Where is Brown University located? Brown is located in historic Providence, Rhode Island. Providence is the capital and most populous city of the state of Rhode Island. By train or car, we are about one hour south of Boston and about three hours north of New York City. How big is the student population at Brown University? Brown's vibrant, diverse community consists of 6,792 undergraduate students, 2,561 graduate students and 595 medical students. Where can I learn more about Brown by the numbers? Brown Facts provides a helpful snapshot of Brown by the numbers online. This includes numbers such as our student:faculty ratio and undergraduate population size, as well as a variety of admission statistics including admit rates and test score ranges for first-year applicants. While these statistics may help to provide a broad perspective of the academic strength of our pool of applicants, please be aware that they are not a set of requirements and should not be used to predict odds of admission. How do I add my name to your contact list? We look forward to staying in touch and welcome you to sign up for our contact list at any time. This will allow us to share information about Brown, the admission and financial aid processes, and upcoming events. What concentrations (majors) are offered at Brown? There are 80+ concentrations offered at Brown. Undergraduate Concentrations is a section of our website that will allow you to explore the many intellectual paths you can take at Brown. Can I double concentrate? Yes, you may double concentrate. Students at Brown are welcome to double concentrate if they are able to complete all requirements for both concentrations in the standard eight-semester sequence of study. Do you offer minors? While Brown does not offer the option of pursuing a minor, students interested in this type of academic experience may consider pursuing one of our Certificate Programs. Current opportunities include Entrepreneurship, Engaged Scholarship, and Data Fluency. How many undergraduate courses are offered? The 2022-2023 Course Announcement Bulletin provides a list of courses offered at Brown during the listed academic year to help you get a sense of the offerings available. Will I be guaranteed housing for all four years while I am at Brown? Yes, housing is guaranteed for all four years that you are at Brown. All first-year students live in residential "units," which are comprised of 40-60 first-year students and 3-4 peer counselors. The first-year units are staffed by Resident Counselors (RCs), Minority Peer Counselors (MPCs) and Women Peer Counselors (WPCs) who work together to build community within their units and to provide their residents with information about campus resources and opportunities for dialogue around academic, wellness, and diversity topics. For more information about Residential Life at Brown, please visit their website. What graduate and professional schools does Brown have? Brown University offers a full complement of Masters and PhD programs. In addition, Brown is home to the Warren Alpert Medical School, School of Professional Studies, School of Engineering and School of Public Health. Do you have a pre-law concentration? Pre-med? Pre-business? Brown does not specifically offer pre-law, pre-med or pre-business concentrations. However, many of our students do go on to successful careers in law, medicine or business. More information about pre-professional advising and life after Brown can be found through the CareerLAB website. Which languages does Brown offer? Brown currently offers instruction in at least 25 ancient and modern languages administered through the Center for Language Studies. What is Brown's non-discrimination policy? Brown University does not discriminate on the basis of sex, race, color, religion, age, disability, status as a veteran, national or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression, in the administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, or other school-administered programs. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Brown Open details for About Brown Bookmark this Page