Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Afford > Scholarships Scholarships UT Offers over 3,000 scholarships to incoming and current students. We're committed to making UT Austin affordable for all students and want to help you find answers to your questions about paying for college. UT Austin assists students in applying for financial aid and awards both university and private scholarships to help students pay for their undergraduate education. We’re focused on helping to reduce student debt and making a UT Austin education possible for Texans from low- and middle- income families. More Information Freshman Transfer International Applicants Freshman Want to be considered for scholarships? You should apply for admission and complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) no later than January 15. There is no separate scholarship application. Scholarship interest form: The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid administers some scholarships with qualifications that may require additional questions. More information about consideration for these scholarships along with a scholarship interest form will be available through MyStatus once you have submitted your admissions application. The Terry Foundation Scholarship is an example of a scholarship that has additional questions found on this form. The deadline to submit this form is December 7. Texas Advance Commitment: All eligible students who apply for freshman admission and submit the FAFSA/TASFA are considered for the Texas Advance Commitment. This is a commitment from the University to help make UT Austin more affordable by either completely covering the gap to tuition or providing tuition support for families who qualify based on their adjusted gross income and financial need. . Transfer Continuing students, transfer students who have completed the admissions application, and former students applying for readmission may apply for scholarships by completing the Continuing and Transfer Scholarship Application. The application is available starting in November each year and is used to award scholarships for the following academic year. Coordinated Admission Program (CAP) transfers should wait until after Dec. 1 to submit the application. The deadline to submit the Continuing & Transfer Scholarship Application is March 15, Midnight (CDT). International Applicants Texas Global maintains financial aid and scholarship information for international students. Some academic departments at the university award scholarships for which international students may compete. Many of these awards are available to students only after an initial year of work at the university. To find out if your department offers such scholarships, contact the college or school to which you are applying or are admitted. College, school and department scholarships Many UT Austin colleges, schools, and academic departments award their own scholarships to incoming and continuing students. Some have additional application requirements that students must complete to be considered. Your admissions application information and FAFSA/TASFA are used to determine eligibility. Most scholarship decisions will be released in March and April. If you do not receive a scholarship from your college or school as a freshman that doesn’t mean you can’t get one as a sophomore, junior, or senior – they often award more scholarship dollars to continuing students than freshmen so keep applying each year to maximize your chances for scholarships! Other Scholarship Resources Find more information about scholarships at UT Austin through our scholarship finder tool, You should also consider applying for scholarships available from the University’s alumni association, the Texas Exes. They have exclusive UT Austin only scholarships like the full ride award offer called the Forty Acres and many other scholarships from alumni and chapters of Texas Exes. Deadlines for Texas Exes awards range from November 1 to February 15. Other search tools include: A Texas-focused index of scholarships and other financial aid maintained by the Minnie Stevens Piper Foundation in conjunction with the Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts AIE's scholarship database, a listing of more than 15,000 scholarships available to students The College Board’s Scholarship Search, a tool used by students across the country and the Opportunity Scholarships offering $5 million of scholarships each year to reward students for their effort and initiative – no essays or applications required! Raise.Me is a resource where you can earn micro scholarships for the acheivements you accomplish during high school. Eligible students can earn up to $500 per year for a total of $2,000 to use at UT Austin. Deadlines Freshman Application: December 1 Continuing/Transfer Application: March 15 Quick Links Tuition Cost of Attendance FAFSA Texas Residency Next: Back to Afford Go to Scholarships & Fellowships Financial Aid Accepting Awards and Aid admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022