Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu The IU Education Schools Majors, Degrees & Programs Exploratory Programs Individualized Major Program Search Majors, Degrees, and Programs Class Profile Academic Opportunities Honors Programs Learning Communities Research Pre-professional Study Career Preparation Career Centers Faculty Connections Internships & Experience Alumni Network How to Start Advising & Support Global Experiences Life at IU Student Involvement Traditions Diversity Opportunities Arts Athletics Housing Bloomington Safety Cost & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Managing Costs Return on Investment Plan for College Eighth Grade Ninth Grade Sophomores Juniors Seniors Family Visit IU Visit Options Virtual Visits Daily Visits Transfer Visits Diversity Programs Group Visits High School Counselor Visits Precollege Programs Virtual Tour Maps, Directions & Parking How to Apply Freshman Applicants Transfer Applicants Intercampus Transfer Applicants Adult Applicants Military & Veteran Applicants Second Degree and Visiting Applicants International Applicants Make a Change to Your Application Graduate Applicants University Division & Direct Admission Steps to Enroll Freshman Students Transfer Students and Spring Freshmen Intercampus Transfer Students Adult Students Summer Students Contact Us Join the Mailing List Office of Admissions Home The IU Education Schools Majors, Degrees & Programs Class Profile Academic Opportunities Career Preparation Advising & Support Global Experiences Life at IU Student Involvement Traditions Diversity Arts Athletics Housing Bloomington Safety Cost & Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Managing Costs Return on Investment Plan for College Eighth Grade Ninth Grade Sophomores Juniors Seniors Family Visit IU Visit Options Virtual Tour Maps, Directions & Parking How to Apply Freshman Applicants Transfer Applicants Intercampus Transfer Applicants Adult Applicants Military & Veteran Applicants Second Degree and Visiting Applicants International Applicants Make a Change to Your Application Graduate Applicants University Division & Direct Admission Steps to Enroll Freshman Students Transfer Students and Spring Freshmen Intercampus Transfer Students Adult Students Summer Students Contact Us Join the Mailing List Home Visit IU Visit Options Visit Options Experience one of the world’s best campuses This is what a college campus should look like, and how it should feel. Be inspired by the beauty and energized by the sense of community. Visit campus or explore our other ways to experience IU, from driving tours to virtual visits. Check out our virtual visit options Student and family visits Visit for a day During your on-campus visit, join us for an information session, campus tour, and learn important IU information. Attend a Transfer Visit Discover all the opportunities available to transfer students and get help in your transition to IU. Explore our diversity programs Whether you’re African American, Latino/Hispanic, Asian American, Native American, or the first person in your family to attend college, we welcome you and hope you’ll explore your future here. Register for your campus experience Note: If visit times are full, please check back. The system updates in real time as cancellations occur and as new dates become available. We are currently unable to offer a waitlist for visits. If you are unable to join us in person for your campus visit, there are other ways to experience IU. With virtual visits, driving tours, and self-guided walking tours, you can discover what IU has to offer and why you belong here. Health and Safety Guidelines IU Bloomington takes the health and safety of our campus community very seriously. While on campus, visitors must follow all the on-campus guidance applicable to members of the IU community, including applicable travel restrictions. Campus walking tours are primarily outdoors. Please ensure you check the forecast and prepare for the weather. Public health and safety concerns and/or weather emergencies could require the cancellation of your campus visit. You will be notified as soon as possible in the event of a cancellation of your scheduled visit. A person who has COVID-19 symptoms or who is being treated for COVID-19 or potential COVID-19 may not visit campus. Masks will be optional in most spaces on the Indiana University Bloomington campus, except for public transportation, health care settings, IU childcare facilities, and research spaces. You are welcome to wear a mask during your visit if you feel more comfortable doing so. Group and high school staff visits Plan a group visit Does your organization have ten or more people who want to come to visit our campus virtually? We have special visits for groups. Come to IU on a counselor visit Get in on the fun, high school counselors! We’ll customize a virtual visit for your needs. Visit Options Virtual Visits Daily Visits Transfer Visits Diversity Programs Group Visits High School Counselor Visits Precollege Programs Virtual Tour Maps, Directions & Parking Office of Admissions Contact us / Join the mailing list Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest INFO FOR Families Counselors FUTURE FRESHMEN See admission requirements Learn how to apply Apply now Learn about AP credit Check your status Correct your application FUTURE TRANSFERS See admission requirements Learn how to apply Apply now Learn about transfer credit Check your status Correct your application ADMITTED STUDENTS Learn how to enroll Declare your intent to enroll Set up your computing account Explore housing Learn about orientation Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University