Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Scholarships Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Costs & Financial Aid Home Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Purple and Gold scholarship Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise The UW offers scholarships in everything from academic pursuits and research activities to community service and musical talents. You are considered for some scholarship programs automatically as part of your admission or financial aid applications, while others are available through departments once you are enrolled as a student. Freshman scholarships Transfer scholarships The Office of Student Financial Aid The Financial Aid Scholarship Services Office awards several hundred scholarships each year to undergraduates who demonstrate outstanding academic achievement and financial need and who are residents of Washington state. To be eligible for consideration, students must be admitted to the UW for autumn quarter of the academic year and complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or the Washington Application for State Financial Aid (WASFA) by the priority filing date of January 15. A separate application is not required, but some students will be asked to provide additional information later in the review process. The UW does not provide financial aid or scholarships to undergraduate international students. Not sure if you’re an international student? Let us help. Freshman scholarships Presidential Scholar The Presidential Scholarship is a $10,000 award given to selected Washington residents who show exceptional leadership, community engagement and promise. It is renewable for up to four years. Washington residents are considered automatically with their application to the UW. Purple & Gold The Purple & Gold Scholarship is awarded to U.S. students (U.S. citizens, permanent residents, refugees and undocumented residents) who are not residents of Washington state. Amounts vary by recipient, are given for four years and may be used only for the Seattle campus. This scholarship is awarded with the following conditions: Recipients are not now, and nor will they become, residents of the state of Washington for the four-year duration of the award. Recipients will confirm their intention to enroll at the UW for autumn quarter by May 1 of the year they wish to enroll. May 1 is the National Candidate Reply Date. Recipients will enroll as full-time students, defined as a minimum of 12 credits per quarter for three quarters of the academic year. The scholarship is renewable for four years as long as recipients maintain good academic standing. The scholarship may not be deferred. Note: Students admitted to UW Academy are not eligible for the Purple & Gold Scholarship. UW Diversity Scholarship The UW Diversity Scholarship for Freshmen is privately supported by the generous contributions of many individuals, organizations and local businesses, including Costco and Boeing. It awards $10,000 per year for four years to high-achieving high-need students who are entering the UW as freshmen from communities that are traditionally underserved in education. The following factors may be considered in the selection process: Academic record (curriculum, grades) Personal background and community service Financial need, as evidenced from the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or Washington Application for State Financial Aid (WASFA) Residency in the state of Washington Part of an underserved group such as youth in foster care, historically underrepresented minority students, and students who are the first in their family to pursue a college degree. To be considered, students are encouraged to file the FAFSA/WASFA as soon after October 1 as possible, but before January 15. Students whose admission applications indicate that they may meet the scholarship criteria will be reviewed automatically – no additional application is needed. Eligible students will be notified in March. Army ROTC Tuition Scholarship The Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Scholarship is a merit based scholarship offered to UW students who are eligible and desire to serve in the U.S. military as a commissioned officer. The scholarship covers full tuition – resident or nonresident rate – and these additional benefits: $1,200 annual book stipend $420 monthly allowance during the school year This scholarship is awarded with the following conditions: Recipients must be U.S. Citizens Between the ages of 17-30 years old Have high moral character Be medically qualified Enrolled as a full time student and in ROTC Military Science courses Pass a physical fitness test Be in good academic standing with a minimum 2.5 GPA to apply Accept an appointment as a commissioned officer upon graduation There is no service obligation to apply for the scholarship. Contact the UW Department of Military Science for additional information — armyrotc@uw.edu. UW Army ROTC Housing Scholarship The Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Housing Scholarship is a merit based scholarship offered to UW students who are eligible and desire to serve in the U.S. military as a commissioned officer. ROTC provides a $10,000 annual scholarship for housing and these additional benefits: $1,200 annual book stipend $420 monthly allowance during the school year. This scholarship is awarded with the following conditions: Recipients must be U.S. Citizens Between the ages of 17-30 years old Have high moral character Be medically qualified Enrolled as a full time student and in ROTC Military Science courses Pass a physical fitness test Be in good academic standing with a minimum 2.5 GPA to apply Accept an appointment as a commissioned officer upon graduation There is no service obligation to apply for the scholarship. Contact the UW Department of Military Science for additional information — armyrotc@uw.edu. Transfer scholarships Martin Family Foundation Scholarship programs The Martin Family Foundation supports the Martin Achievement Scholarship and the Martin Family Foundation Honors Scholarship. Both are designed to enable exceptional students of Washington community colleges to complete their bachelor’s degrees on the UW’s Seattle campus. They fund students at different points in their community college careers and may be renewable each year for up to three years of undergraduate support. Washington Space Grant Consortium The Washington NASA Space Grant Community College Transfer Scholarships are awarded to promising community college students planning to transfer to the UW to continue their studies in engineering, math, science or technology. Students must be Washington state residents and citizens of the U.S. to be eligible to apply, and they may plan to enter the UW in autumn, winter or spring quarters. Applications are due in June for the following academic year. Army ROTC Tuition Scholarship The Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Scholarship is a merit based scholarship offered to UW students who are eligible and desire to serve in the U.S. military as a commissioned officer. The scholarship covers full tuition – resident or nonresident rate – and these additional benefits: $1,200 annual book stipend $420 monthly allowance during the school year This scholarship is awarded with the following conditions: Recipients must be U.S. Citizens Between the ages of 17-30 years old Have high moral character Be medically qualified Enrolled as a full time student and in ROTC Military Science courses Pass a physical fitness test Be in good academic standing with a minimum 2.5 GPA to apply Accept an appointment as a commissioned officer upon graduation There is no service obligation to apply for the scholarship. Contact the UW Department of Military Science for additional information — armyrotc@uw.edu. UW Army ROTC Housing Scholarship The Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Housing Scholarship is a merit based scholarship offered to UW students who are eligible and desire to serve in the U.S. military as a commissioned officer. ROTC provides a $10,000 annual scholarship for housing and these additional benefits: $1,200 annual book stipend $420 monthly allowance during the school year. This scholarship is awarded with the following conditions: Recipients must be U.S. Citizens Between the ages of 17-30 years old Have high moral character Be medically qualified Enrolled as a full time student and in ROTC Military Science courses Pass a physical fitness test Be in good academic standing with a minimum 2.5 GPA to apply Accept an appointment as a commissioned officer upon graduation There is no service obligation to apply for the scholarship. Contact the UW Department of Military Science for additional information — armyrotc@uw.edu. Additional resources The following links will take you to websites not affiliated with the UW. They may offer different privacy policies and levels of security. The UW is not responsible for and does not endorse, guarantee or monitor content, availability, viewpoints, products or services offered or expressed on other websites. The College Board Scholar Snapp Fastweb FinAid CollegeNet Federal Trade Commission, Scholarship Scams Home Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Purple and Gold scholarship Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Resources Residency Financial aid: Getting started Net Price Calculator Deadlines October 1: FAFSA/WASFA opens January 15: FAFSA/WASFA priority date University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA