Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site Applying to Yale College How should I share details of special circumstances that may have affected my academic performance in high school? Ask your school counselor or other school official who will be assisting you with your college applications to address any special circumstances in the Counselor Recommendation. You may also write about particular challenges in your personal statement or the Additional Information section of the application, but an explanation from your counselor or another school official is especially valuable. Remember that Yale’s review process is holistic and contextual. If you believe there is important information the Admissions Committee should know when evaluating your application, please share that information with your counselor. I have dual citizenship or attend high school in a country where I am not a citizen. Should I apply as a domestic applicant or an international applicant? When applying to Yale, there is no difference. All candidates submit the same application materials regardless of citizenship or immigration status. The application will prompt you to list your country or countries of citizenship, and this information is used for reporting purposes. Your citizenship or immigration status will not negatively affect your chances of admission or your eligibility for Yale financial aid. My activities do not fit in the space provided in the application. May I send an additional résumé or activities list? Although the Coalition Application, Common Application and QuestBridge National College Match Application limit the number of activities you may report, there is typically more than enough space for most competitive applicants to communicate their most important and relevant commitments. Please note that it is not necessary to report all of the activities you have ever participated in. You should only report your most recent activities, generally from grades 9-12, and you should focus on activities that you have spent the most time on, those that have meant the most to you personally, and those that are most relevant to your college plans and goals. Generally speaking, applicants should not submit additional résumés, except in the case of professional employment experience in the performing arts. Are there different application requirements for students interested in different majors? No. All applicants submit the same materials and are evaluated through the same processes regardless of their intended major. Applicants are not admitted to any specific major or undergraduate program. All matriculating students enroll in Yale College with access to the same 80 undergraduate majors. Yale College students do not declare a major until the end of their sophomore year. Does the Admissions Office audit or verify application material? Yes. Undergraduate admissions office staff conduct random audits of application information from both applicants and admitted students. Audited information includes, but is not limited to, letters of recommendation, extracurricular activities, awards and distinctions, and academic records. The audit process involves proactive communication with secondary school teachers and counselors, searches of publicly available information sources, and, in some cases, requests for additional verifying records. Will applying for financial aid hurt my chances of admission? Absolutely not. An applicant’s ability to pay for a Yale education is not considered during the admissions process. This policy is called “need-blind admission.” Yale is strongly committed to equality of opportunity, and need-blind admission ensures that the College will be open to students of personal and academic promise from all segments of society and all parts of the world. An application for financial aid has no effect on the Admissions Committee’s decision. This policy applies to all candidates, regardless of their citizenship. Can Yale estimate my chances of being admitted before I apply? No. An admissions officer cannot provide an estimate of student’s chances of being admitted to Yale. This is not simply a matter of office policy; Yale’s holistic and contextual review process requires that an applicant’s candidacy be evaluated on the basis of all of the information provided in the application, and within the context of the full applicant pool. When choosing where you will apply to college, remember that admission to Yale is highly selective, even for the most academically accomplished applicants, but no one thing alone determines who is offered admission and who is denied. For more information and advice, review the extensive Advice to Candidates section of this website. Does visiting campus or attending an information session in my area increase my chances of being admitted? No. Yale does not track “demonstrated interest” in any form for the purpose of evaluating applications. Visiting campus or attending an information session can be an excellent way to learn more about Yale, but it will not affect your chances of admission. What is the minimum GPA required for admission? We do not set a minimum GPA, nor do we attempt to re-weight GPA’s to any standard other than what a school provides. An applicant’s complete secondary school transcript (not just the GPA or class rank, if they are provided) is evaluated during the admissions process. We understand that every school and every grading system is different. Admissions officers evaluate a student’s course rigor and academic accomplishment in the context of the school the applicant attends. Does Yale require that applicants complete certain high school courses? No. There are no specific high school courses required for admission. There are also no specific high school courses required for applicants who express interest in any particular major. Please reference our Advice on Selecting High School Courses for more information. Who should write my teacher recommendations? Yale requires two letters of recommendation from teachers who have taught you in credit-bearing classes during the academic year in core academic subjects (English, Foreign Language, Mathematics, Science, or Social Studies). We recommend, but do not require, that applicants solicit recommendations from 11th and 12th grade teachers, as they are typically able to provide the best insights into your most rigorous academic work. Yale does not require that these recommendations come from teachers of particular academic subjects. Choose teachers who know you well and can give us a sense of your academic and personal strengths. What does Yale look for in essays and short answer responses? The best writing in an application is thoughtful and reflective, conveying a specific idea related to your personal or intellectual life. We understand that in a mere 200 or 500 words you cannot possibly tell us everything about yourself, and the essays and short answer responses in the application are not meant to create a comprehensive autobiography. Take some time to think about what you want us to know about you. Consider the essay’s brevity to be a challenge: it’s often more difficult to say what you mean with economy. Choose topics that express who you are and allow you to share something important about you. Don’t feel the need to come up with a “gimmick” or an original topic. Many successful candidates write about fairly common topics, such as music, sports, community service projects, jobs, and family relationships. Take the time to carefully review your essays before submitting them. Additional information can be found in our Advice to Candidates section. My essay is more than the stated word limit. Is that OK? Please work to keep your essays and short answer responses to the provided word limits. In some instances, if your responses do not adhere to the given word limits, you will not be able to submit your application. Remember, concise and simple writing is often the best writing, so adhering to the word limits and the space provided will work to your best interest. How does Yale use AP, IB, A-Levels, and Dual Enrollment courses completed in high school? Admissions officers are familiar with various types of advanced coursework, including AP, IB, A-Levels, Dual Enrollment, and others, but have no preference for one advanced curriculum over another. We also understand that the availability of advanced coursework varies significantly from school to school. For matriculating students, top scores on AP or IB exams can, in some cases, be used for the purposes of course placement or acceleration (i.e. completing the requirements for an undergraduate degree in fewer than 8 semesters). Details of the Yale College policies on acceleration are available in the Yale College Programs of Study. What does Yale look for in Coalition Application digital uploads? Students applying to Yale with the Coalition Application are prompted to upload a digital file of their creation along with a short reflection on their choice and how it relates to one of two topics. Uploads are evaluated in conjunction of the written reflection, and will not be evaluated on the basis of their production quality. Successful Coalition Application digital uploads will reveal something meaningful about the applicant that relates to the selected topic. May I submit a supplementary letter of recommendation? Yes, but please note that supplementary letters are neither recommended nor required. The writer of a supplemental letter should know you personally and/or have mentored you closely in some capacity. For example, if you have engaged in advanced scientific research, you should consider asking your research mentor to write a supplemental letter of recommendation for you. Please ask that person to include the following at the top of their letter: your full, legal name as it appears in your application, the name and location of your high school, and your date of birth. See the guidelines about Supplementary Materials. How does Yale evaluate supplementary materials such as music, art, dance, film, or scientific research? The vast majority of our students are admitted on the basis of required documents alone. For a very small number of exceptionally talented researchers, artists, musicians, dancers, or filmmakers, supplementary material may be useful to communicate information that cannot be conveyed adequately in the rest of the application. See the guidelines about Supplementary Materials for more information. I participated in the American Mathematics Competition (AMC) or American Invitational Mathematics Examination. How should I report my scores? If you have completed external examinations such as the AMC, AIME, or academic Olympiads and know your score(s), please self-report the score(s) when completing your application. When completing the Yale-specific questions for the Coalition Application or Common Application, you will see the option to “list any additional academic examinations you have taken or will take.” Will participating in a peaceful protest - and potentially facing disciplinary action - negatively affect my application? Civic engagement on issues of public concern is consistent with attributes the Office of Undergraduate Admissions seeks in the high school students it admits. Yale considers each disciplinary action reported by a student or a student’s school in the context of the student’s full application, and students who are disciplined for missing school for any reason will certainly have an opportunity to explain the circumstances to the admissions committee. Admission decisions will not be rescinded as a result of an absence to participate in peaceful civic engagement, regardless of the issue or cause. How can I confirm that Yale has received all my required application documents? The Yale Admissions Status Portal will allow you to view an Application Checklist of all required material and, eventually, your admissions decision. You can also use the Status Portal to request a change of address, change of primary email, etc. May I apply to enter Yale in the spring semester? No. Students may only begin a course of study at Yale in the fall semester. May I apply to Yale more than once? Yes, but Yale has a longstanding policy that a student may not apply to the College more than three times. This includes first-year, transfer, Eli Whitney, and non-degree applications. In This Section What Yale Looks For Advice on Putting Together Your Application Advice on Selecting High School Courses Applying to Yale College FAQs Advice for First-Generation College Applicants Advice on Choosing Where to Apply After Colleges Accept You Beyond the College Rankings COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved