Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Admissions Main Navigation TRANSCRIPTS Show Extended High School Transcripts College Transcripts RESIDENCY APPEALS OUTREACH & RECRUITMENT FINANCIAL AID ORIENTATION CONTACT US NOTICE OF AVAILABILITY AND THE ANNUAL SECURITY AND FIRE SAFETY REPORT California State University Fullerton is committed to assisting all members of the community in providing for their own safety and security. The annual security and fire safety report is available on the CSUF website via the Dean of Students Webpage If you would like to receive a hard copy of the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report which contains this information, you can stop by the Police Department in at 800 North State College Blvd or you can request that a copy be mailed to you by calling (657) 278-7286. The website and booklet contain information regarding campus security and personal safety including topics such as: crime prevention, university police law enforcement authority, crime reporting policies, fire safety, disciplinary procedures and other matters of importance related to security on campus. They also contain information about fire statistics in CSUF Residence Halls and crime statistics for the three previous calendar years concerning reported crimes that occurred on campus; in certain off-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by CSUF; and on public property within, or immediately adjacent to and accessible from the campus. This information is required by law and is provided by CSUF Police Department. This site is maintained by Office of Admissions. Last Published 4/14/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact arwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.