Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Explore > Prerequisites Prerequisites Some of the university’s undergraduate colleges and schools have prerequisites or suggested preparatory coursework. School of Architecture Freshmen Freshman applicants considering architecture should take humanities and elective art classes—drawing, for instance. When possible, take advanced courses (honors, Advanced Placement, dual enrollment) in physics, pre-calculus and calculus. Transfers Transfer applications and portfolios are accepted only from students of architecture and interior design programs at other universities whose minimum transfer GPA is 3.25. The required portfolio will be evaluated with emphasis given to excellence in design, academic preparation, essays, and other achievements. Course credit and placement in studio sequence is determined upon acceptance. McCombs School of Business Freshmen Freshman applicants considering a business major should take math and science courses each year of high school. Transfers Transfer applicants must submit proof of credit or in-progress work for the following business indicator courses: Calculus I: MATH 408K/308K, 408C or 403K/303K Calculus II: MATH 408L/308L, 408D or 303L Microeconomics: ECON 304K Macroeconomics: ECON 304L MATH 408/308M is not a required course, but is recommended for Science and Technology Management. Cockrell School of Engineering Freshmen Freshman applicants interested in majoring in engineering should prepare by taking math and science courses each year of high school. Additionally, you must meet the university’s calculus readiness requirement. Transfers Transfer applicants must submit proof of credit or in-progress work for a minimum of four technical courses—math, physics, chemistry, biology, geology, computer science or engineering—including: MATH 408K, 408L or 408M PHYS 303K and 103M To be most competitive, applications should undertake additional technical coursework. College of Fine Arts All applicants considering a major in the College of Fine Arts should begin cultivating samples of their artistic work in preparation for a required audition or submission of a portfolio. These requirements can take many months to prepare; applicants are encouraged to begin early. To be considered for admission, applicants must fulfill their major’s portfolio, audition and/or application requirements by the general admissions application deadline. Jackson School of Geosciences Freshmen Freshman applicants interested in majoring in a geological science should prepare by taking math and science courses each year of high school. Additionally, you must meet the university’s calculus readiness requirement. Transfers Transfer applicants should have the following credit: CHEM 301 GEO 401 MATH 408C, 408K or 408N Environmental Science Environmental Science (Geological Sciences) majors should have credit for: BIO 311C, CHEM 301 and MATH 408C, 408K or 408N with grades of at least a C-minus GEO 401 or 303 with a grade of at least a B-minus College of Liberal Arts Freshmen Prospective freshmen interested in applying to Plan II or Liberal Arts Honors should prepare with a broad and challenging curriculum that includes honors, Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate courses in literature, mathematics (including calculus), foreign language and the sciences during each year of high school. To be considered for admission to Environmental Science (Geographical Sciences), freshman applicants must meet the university’s calculus readiness requirement. Transfers Transfer applicants to Environmental Science (Geographical Sciences) are required to have the following transfer credit: BIO 311C, CHEM 301 and MATH 408C, 408K or 408N with grades of at least a C-minus GEO 401 or 303 with a grade of at least a B-minus College of Natural Sciences Freshmen Freshman applicants considering a major in the College of Natural Sciences should prepare by taking math and science courses each year of high school. To be considered for admission to Environmental Science (Biological Sciences), you must meet the university’s calculus readiness requirement. Transfers Transfer applicants should exhibit strong past performance in math and science courses. A college transcript that indicates a competitive grade in calculus and a solid foundation of first-year coursework in science is highly valued. To be most competitive, students should have earned credit for calculus and should have complete or in progress a minimum of nine credit hours in first-year math and science courses for science majors. A grade of A or B in all math and science courses is also desirable. Environmental Science Transfer applicants to Environmental Science (Biological Sciences) are required to have the following transfer credit: BIO 311C, CHEM 301, and MATH 408C, 408K, or 408N with grades of at least a C-minus GEO 401 or 303 with a grade of at least a B-minus School of Nursing Freshmen Freshman applicants interested in majoring in nursing should prepare by taking math and science courses each year of high school. All applicants must meet professional and technical standards (PDF), and be able to meet compliance requirements. Transfers Transfer applicants must submit official transcripts showing completion of the following courses: CHEM 301 SDS 301 BIO 311C College of Pharmacy Freshmen Freshman applicants interested in a degree in pharmacy should prepare by taking math and science courses every year of high school. Transfers Transfer applicants should refer to information on the College of Pharmacy’s website for details about preparation and prerequisites. Steve Hicks School of Social Work All applicants to the Bachelor of Social Work program must meet certain grade-point requirements, have volunteer experience, demonstrate a strong commitment to the profession and be emotionally and professionally prepared to deal with clients. Other Colleges and Schools Colleges and schools not listed above do not have specific prerequisites, although in order to be competitive for admission and well-prepared for college-level coursework you should always enroll in the most challenging classes available to you. General Coursework Requirements To be competitive for admission, freshman applicants must complete or be on track to complete certain high school coursework: Language Arts: Four credits Mathematics: Four credits Science: Four credits Social Studies: Four credits Foreign Language: Two credits Fine Arts: One credit Physical Education: One credit Electives: Six credits Read More Next: Back to Explore Go to The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022