Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) at Oregon State University Oregon State University is a participating institution with the Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) program. What is the Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) Program? The Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) Program is the largest regional interstate tuition savings program in the United States. More than 160 public colleges and universities in 18 states and territories participate in the program. Through WUE, eligible students can attend an undergraduate program outside their home state and pay no more than 150 percent of that institution’s resident tuition rate. Full WUE FAQ Which U.S. states and territories participate in the WUE Program? 18 U.S. states and territories currently participate in the WUE Program: Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, Wyoming, Guam, the North Mariana Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Full WUE FAQ What is OSU’s WUE Scholarship and who is eligible? OSU’s WUE Scholarship is Oregon State’s most competitive scholarship for new undergraduate students who are residents of a WUE-eligible U.S. state or territory. Recipients are selected based on a holistic review of their admission application. The selected students will receive a tuition discount that reduces the cost of their base tuition to no more than 150% of base tuition for resident students. OSU’s WUE Scholarship is renewable for up to four years (twelve terms) of support total. WUE Scholarships are competitive and awarded based on a holistic review of your application for admission. Only about 10% of students from a WUE state will be offered the WUE Scholarship, but many more will receive the Provost Scholarship to reward them for their academic success and help offset the cost of non-resident tuition. Full WUE FAQ To be eligible to be considered for OSU’s WUE Scholarship, students must meet all of the following criteria: New first-year or transfer undergraduate admit for Fall 2021 and future Fall terms (Continuing students and students admitted for the Winter 2022 or Spring 2022 term are not eligible) Planning to attend the OSU-Corvallis or OSU-Cascades campus (Ecampus, Portland, and LaGrande students are not eligible) Permanent resident of one of the WUE-eligible U.S. states or territories More Information on the Scholarships Site Full WUE FAQ WUE Scholarship Terms & Conditions Cost and Aid Cost and Aid Main Page Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Presidential Scholarship Awards Degree Partnership Program FAFSA Application Scholarships Site Financial Aid Site Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram