Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us Academics How to Apply Tuition & Aid Student Life Connect About Us Search Virtual Visit Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Schedule an Information Session & Campus Tour Group Tours Our Location Meet Your Tour Guide Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Virtual Visit Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Schedule an Information Session & Campus Tour Group Tours Our Location Meet Your Tour Guide About Us Academics How to Apply Financial Aid Student Life Visit University of Miami Undergraduate Admission Student Life Connect Group Tours AAA Special Group Tours Virtual Visit Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Schedule an Information Session & Campus Tour Group Tours Our Location Meet Your Tour Guide GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Special Group Tours will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and considered within the context of the ongoing pandemic environment as well as the University’s existing Covid-19 protocols. Thank you for your understanding and patience as we prioritize the health and safety of our new and returning students, faculty, and staff. You can also encourage your students to engage with us through one of our virtual visit options. Request a Group Tour General guidelines Group size should be anywhere from 15-48 people, which includes students and chaperones. There should be at least 1 chaperone for every 15 students. Special Group Tours are offered Monday–Friday. Special Group Tours are not offered when the University is closed. Please refer to our Academic Calendar. We ask that you send in Special Group Tour requests at least one month in advance of the date that you would like to schedule your visit. Special Group Tours are geared toward students who are preparing to apply for and attend college. Due to high demand, we are unable to accommodate Special Group Tours for elementary and middle school students. Please feel free to download our Self-Guided Walking Tour, which you may use to navigate the campus at your convenience. Preparing for your tour Special Group Tours are typically 1 hour 15 minutes long and will include a substantial amount of walking, so please plan accordingly. “Hurricane Season” lasts from June – October and sporadic rainstorms are common. Admission staff may exercise discretion and cancel the walking portion of the Special Group Tour due to inclement weather. Should this occur, we will provide you with a Self-Guided Walking Tour to navigate at your convenience. We are located in a sub-tropical climate, the sun tends to be very strong, even on cloudy days. We recommend all visitors wear sunscreen. Arriving for your tour We recommend arriving at least 15 minutes prior to your scheduled tour time. Please note that if you arrive more than 15 minutes late for your scheduled tour time, your Special Group Tour will be canceled due to limited student and/or staff availability. Please check-in at the front desk of the Office of Undergraduate Admission, which is located in the Whitten University Center. If, on the day of your Special Group Tour, you find that you are running late or are in need of directions, please call us at 305-284-6000. Directions and parking Our campus is located right off of U.S. Highway 1 in Coral Gables, Florida. For directions, please click here. Please plan on parking in the Pavia Garage if you are arriving by car. If arriving by bus, please park in Lot 42, which is across from the baseball stadium on Ponce De Leon Blvd. If you would like to reschedule or cancel your Special Group Tour, or if you have any questions or concerns, please contact Carlos Rohl. Note: Cancellations must be communicated to us at least one week before the confirmed date. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Undergraduate Admission 1306 Stanford Drive, Suite 1210 Coral Gables, FL 33146 TEL: 305-284-6000 TEL: 305-284-6000 FAX: 305-284-2507 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search myUM Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram tiktok Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback