Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Housing Princeton's residential campus ensures that even in a student body of approximately 5,200 undergraduates, first-year students, sophomores, juniors and seniors develop a sense of home within a tightly knit community. Princeton guarantees on-campus housing for students for all four years. First- and second-year students are required to live on campus, and nearly all juniors and seniors choose to live in on-campus housing. All residential colleges house students from all four class years as well as some graduate students. The residential colleges offer a welcoming environment and a host of social and intellectual opportunities throughout the academic year. Juniors and seniors can take advantage of these opportunities even if they choose not to live in the residential colleges. Entering first-year students are randomly assigned to a residential college: Butler, Forbes, Mathey, Rockefeller, Whitman or First College. First-years typically take on the identity of their college with pride early in the first semester. Each first-year has a junior or senior residential college adviser who is on hand to answer questions and help with the adjustment to college life. Each college has a faculty head of college, faculty fellows, dean, director of studies and a director of student life. At the end of their sophomore year, students may choose whether to live in one of the residential colleges or remain affiliated with their college but make other living and dining arrangements. Freshman seminars and writing seminars often meet in residential college classrooms. In addition, residential colleges organize many out of class learning opportunities, such as shared meals with prominent professors, foreign-language discussion tables, film series, topical speakers and trips to the theater, opera and ballet. Colleges also organize dances, barbecues and movie nights. They compete against each other in intramural sports such as soccer and volleyball. And most importantly, they give every student a home base from which to explore new and exciting opportunities. Examples of Princeton dorm rooms: Undergraduate Blog The Quad Experience By Roberto Hasbun Learn More Full content of /blogs/quad-experience Campus Life Residential Colleges An Introduction Learn More Full content of https://odoc.princeton.edu/about/residential-colleges Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746