Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Application Checklist Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Transfer Application Checklist Submit Common Application. You must submit your application online through Common Application. Princeton’s Transfer Supplement. In addition to the application provided by the Common Application, all applicants must submit the Princeton Transfer Supplement. You should submit the Princeton Transfer Supplement online through the Common Application website. Graded Written Paper. For transfer applicants, a graded paper may come from a course taken within the last two years of schooling. While we prefer that it be in the subjects of either English or history, we will also consider papers from courses in the humanities and social sciences for our transfer applicants, provided they meet all of the other requirements listed. Please refer to general requirements for the graded written paper. Application Fee or Fee Waiver. You may submit a fee waiver one of two ways: 1) Select the fee waiver option on the Common Application. Your counselor or school official must approve your fee waiver request online or submit your fee waiver form by mail or fax. 2) Select one of the following fee waiver options on the Princeton Transfer Supplement: Princeton-specific, ACT, College Board or NACAC. All low-income students are eligible for the Princeton-specific fee waiver. In addition, all applicants who are serving or have served in the U.S. military are eligible for the Princeton-specific fee waiver. If you use the Princeton-specific fee waiver, you do not need to get approval from your counselor or school official. Request Official College Transcripts (from all institutions attended). An official transcript must be sent from the registrar’s office or equivalent at all postsecondary institutions attended. Official High School Transcript. An official transcript must be sent by a school counselor or school official. Transfer/College Report. The Transfer Report and College Report forms are available from the Common Application website. Please ask your transfer counselor or other school official to complete and submit the form. Transfer Mid-Term Report (if currently enrolled). Please send us any in-progress grades you may have at time of application, if currently enrolled at another postsecondary institution. The Mid-Term Report is available from the Common Application website. Two (2) academic recommendations (at least one from a college instructor). Please ask two of your instructors from different academic areas of study to complete and send the recommendation forms, available on the Common Application websites. At least one recommendation must be from a college instructor, such as a professor or teaching assistant. The subjects should be in core academic areas, such as English, language, humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and math. Report SAT or ACT. Please see COVID-19 Update for complete changes to the standardized testing policy for the 2021-22 application cycles. For these cycles, standardized tests are not required for an application to be rendered complete. However, for those who choose to sit for a test should do so by the end of March. When registering for the SAT or ACT, use the following codes to ensure your scores are sent to Princeton: SAT: 2672 and ACT: 2588. Learn more about standardized testing for admission. SAT Subject Tests. Princeton does not require SAT Subject Tests. If you chose to sit for a Subject Test (prior to January/June 2021 when the College Board eliminated the test) and wish to submit the score, you may do so. English Proficiency Tests: TOEFL, IELTS or PTE Academic (non-native English speakers only). If English is not your native language and you are attending a school where English is not the language of instruction, you must take the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), the International English Language Testing System Academic (IELTS Academic) or the Pearson Test of English Academic (PTE Academic). You are not required to take the TOEFL, IELTS or PTE Academic if English is your native language or if you have spent at least three years at a secondary or postsecondary school where English is the primary language of instruction. Please have your scores sent directly to Princeton: TOEFL: 2672. Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746