Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Visit / Eat, Stay, Play / Our Favorite Places custom css-js - global Our Favorite Places The list of what makes New Orleans special is endless: streetcars, oak-lined pathways, beignets, Creole cooking, and the Mississippi River alongside the famous Audubon Park are just a few of the city's distinguishing attributes. Below are some of our favorites. Magazine Street Beginning at the edge of the French Quarter and ending Uptown near Audubon Zoo, Magazine Street offers six miles of eclectic and fun shops that can be enjoyed by all. Magazine Street is the place to go for clothes, antiques, unique gifts, and delicious restaurants. Café du Monde Tourists and locals alike head to Café du Monde on Decatur Street in the French Quarter for café au lait and beignets. While you sip your coffee and eat your beignets, you can watch the fascinating parade of people through the French Quarter, just as Café du Monde visitors have done since 1862. La Vie New Orleans Private Tours The best way to explore New Orleans is with a local. Learn about America's most unique city, either on foot or in a private SUV. See everything the city has to offer from the French Quarter to the bayous. Tulane Law School alumnus Ashton Rogers performs each tour himself. New Orleans Museum of Art and Sculpture Garden The New Orleans Museum of Art, the city's oldest fine arts institution, has a magnificent permanent collection of more than 40,000 objects, valued in excess of 200 million dollars. The collection is noted for its extraordinary strengths in French and American art, photography, glass, and African and Japanese works. The Mercedes-Benz Superdome The Superdome is home to our beloved New Orleans Saints, and for 38 years, it was also home to Tulane Green Wave football. The Saints' Super Bowl victory in February of 2010 was undoubtedly one of the most exciting times in New Orleans recent history! National WWII Museum Dedicated in 2000 as The National D-Day Museum and designated by Congress as the country's official World War II Museum, this remarkable attraction that continues to expand illuminates the American experience during the WWII era with moving personal stories, historic artifacts, and powerful interactive displays. Campus Tours Daily Campus Tours Large Group Tours Arts/Architecture Tours Our Tour Guides VirTUal Visiting Class Visits Special Programs Tulane Comes to You Campus Preview Days Pre-College Summer Programs Metropolitan Universities Tour Junior Nights Interactive Campus Map Getting Here Eat, Stay, Play Eating in New Orleans Where To Stay Celebrated Events Our Favorite Places Did You Know? Twelve medical degrees were issued during the first Tulane Commencement held on April 5, 1836. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University