Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Undergraduate Admission Deadlines Fall 2022 Applicants: Applicants are strongly encouraged to explore OSU (virtually and/or in person) and prepare to submit their Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) starting in October so that we may provide scholarship awards and financial aid estimates to admitted students. More information about freshman deadlines, requirements and decision dates for Fall 2022. Winter, Spring and Summer Term Applicants: Students applying for winter, spring, or summer terms must apply and submit all required documents before the posted deadlines below to ensure your application can be reviewed in sufficient time before the term starts. Admission application fees will not be refunded due to late arrival of required materials. Students are strongly urged to complete their application process well in advance of posted deadlines in order to get through the subsequent steps in the process. New freshman/first-year students applying for summer term will be evaluated for admission using the same criteria and processes as fall applicants. Financial Support: February 28 is the priority deadline for Federal financial aid. It is recommended to fill out the FAFSA when it becomes available in October, every year. Regardless of which term you are applying for, the scholarship consideration deadline is February 1 before the start of the school year in which you plan to enter. Learn about more cost and aid resources. First-Year Application Deadlines First-Year Application Deadlines Academic Term Deadline Summer 2022 June 20, 2022 Fall 2022 November 1, 2021 - Early Action Deadline. Students who have applied and have a complete application file will be notified in December. February 1, 2022 – Priority Application Deadline. Students wishing to have access to the greatest set of scholarship opportunities should apply by this date. Admission and scholarships may be awarded after this date on a space and funds available basis. February 15, 2022 - Transcript deadline for those who applied by Feb. 1. Students who applied by Feb. 1 and who indicated they wish to have their test scores considered in the admission process have until this date to provide those so decisions can be made. Winter 2023 December 12, 2022 Spring 2023 March 6, 2023 Transfer Application Deadlines Transfer Application Deadlines Academic Term Deadline Summer 2022 June 20, 2022 Fall 2022 March 15, 2022 – Priority Application Deadline for scholarship consideration. Note that transfers applying after this date will be considered for limited scholarships on a funds-available basis and that there are some competitive scholarships for transfers that may have earlier deadlines. August 24, 2022 – final admissions deadline (all required documents due to be considered) for Corvallis and Cascades campus enrollment. Winter 2023 December 12, 2022 Spring 2023 March 6, 2023 Degree Partnership Program (DPP) Application Deadlines Admitted freshmen/first-year students may add DPP by the deadlines listed below. DPP Application Deadlines Academic Term DPP Application Deadline Start Date of OSU Term Summer 2022 May 30, 2022 June 20, 2022 Fall 2022 August 24, 2022 September 21, 2022 Winter 2023 December 12, 2022 January 9, 2023 Spring 2023 March 6, 2023 April 3, 2023 Postbaccalaureate Application Deadlines Applications must be submitted along with all supporting documents, including transcripts from all regionally accredited institutions attended before the posted deadlines. Admission application fees will not be refunded due to late arrival of required materials. Note that admission to Oregon State is just the first step of many to get enrolled. Students are strongly urged to complete their application process well in advance of posted deadlines in order to get through the subsequent steps in the process. Applicants are encouraged to contact the department that they want to apply for admission to determine the department’s deadlines and any other restrictions. Early Post-Bacc Application Deadlines for Computer Science Majors & Certificates, College of Agriculture majors, College of Science majors Early Post-Bacc Application Deadlines for Computer Science, College of Agriculture, College of Science Academic Term Deadline Fall (Sept-Dec) August 1 Winter (Jan-Mar) November 1 Spring (Mar-Jun) February 1 Summer (Jun-Aug) May 1 Some academic programs establish their own application deadlines, which are often substantially earlier than the general university deadlines described below. In such cases, program deadlines supersede the more general university deadline. Some academic programs also admit applicants for specific terms only (e.g. fall term). Contact the department to confirm the application and document deadline that is specific to your program. General Degree Seeking Post-Bacc Application Deadlines General Post-Bacc Application Deadlines Academic Term Deadline Summer 2022 June 20, 2022 Fall 2022 August 24, 2022* *Some academic programs establish their own application deadlines. Applicants are encouraged to contact the department that they want to apply for admission to determine the department's deadlines, notification dates, and any other restrictions. Winter 2023 December 12, 2022 Spring 2023 March 6, 2023 Non-Degree Application Deadlines The application and $30 nonrefundable application fee must be received by these deadlines (by 11:59 p.m. Pacific Time) to be considered for admission to the university. Applicants are encouraged to contact the department that they want to apply for admission to determine the department's deadlines and any other restrictions. Keep in mind that non-degree applicants are not eligible for scholarships or aid.The non-degree application generally takes one week to process. Non-Degree Application Deadlines Academic Term Deadline Summer 2022 August 1, 2022 Fall 2022 September 7, 2022 Winter 2023 December 23, 2022 Spring 2023 March 20, 2023 Requirements and Resources Admission Deadlines Admission Requirements Sending Transcripts and Documents Test Scores - Test Optional Admissions Test Scores - Language Proficiency Residency Degree Types Exploratory Studies Admissions Status Information Student Account Holds Advanced Credit Opportunities Transfer Credits and Guides Credit for Prior Learning & Assessment-Based Learning Credit Earning Credit in High School Admission Appeals - Extended Admissions General Admissions FAQ Common Application FAQ Graduates of Non-standard or Unaccredited High Schools, Home-Schooled Students, and GED Recipients Undocumented Student Information Publications and Forms Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram