Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site The Campus Yale’s tree-lined campus in New Haven has housed “a company of scholars and a society of friends” for more than 300 years. Today it’s also home to some of the world’s most comprehensive research libraries, global art collections, and laboratory spaces. Enjoy a (digital) stroll through what one architecture critic has called “the most beautiful urban campus in America” with the Virtual Tour. aerial bowl sketch whale stem sterling farm peabody conservation Research & Collections Undergraduates learn and conduct research in over one million square feet of laboratory space, the world-renowned Yale University Art Gallery, the Yale Center for British Art, and the Peabody Museum of Natural History. Add in thirteen million books spread across 22 libraries, and students have endless opportunities for exploration. Dining Fourteen intimate residential college dining halls offer food and friendship to the Yale community seven days a week. The Kosher Kitchen at the Joseph Slifka Center and grab-and-go items at Durfee’s Sweet Shoppe on Old Campus provide even more options for hungry Yalies. Student Life Modern resources meet proud tradition at Yale’s world-class extracurricular facilities. Student theater, music, and dance productions find life in over twenty on-campus venues. Athletes and fans might run into Handsome Dan at the historic Yale Bowl or Eero Saarinen’s Ingalls Rink. And those searching for the outdoors connect at the Yale Farm or Yale’s 1,500-acre Outdoor Education Center. Transportation & Safety Yale and New Haven are built for walking and cycling. To travel beyond just a few blocks, students use campus shuttles, Zipcar rentals, and local parking options. Yale’s universal Live Safe App offers one-stop safety resources including door-to-door escorts. The Yale Police make 24-hour campus patrols and students have access to more than 500 Blue Phones. VIRTUAL TOUR Explore Yale’s campus online: view Residential Colleges, science labs, athletics facilities, libraries, classrooms, and more. In This Section Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Related Links Virtual Tour Yale Architecture Tour Landmarks in Yale's History Admissions Events Near You Yale Visitor Center INFONewHaven Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved