Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Visit NC State’s campus is located in the thriving city of Raleigh, North Carolina. Experience the place where you’ll think and do. Take a virtual tour Welcome to NC State We’re the largest four-year institution in North Carolina and one of the leading public universities in the United States. Here, students get the best of both worlds: an expansive campus with cutting-edge facilities that’s just minutes away from a major metropolitan area brimming with opportunity. You’ll find lots of ways to fill a day here — whether you’re scouting out campus landmarks, doing a deep dive on majors and programs, or exploring the surrounding area. See What’s Available On-Campus Tours Ready to walk the bricks? Visit all the spaces that make our campus extraordinary with a guided tour. College-Specific Sessions We’ve got 10 undergraduate colleges and more than 100 majors to explore. Find what fits your interests. Special Topic Sessions Hear from members of the Pack on everything from undergraduate research to scholarships and financial aid. Self-Guided Tours Check out our community at your own pace with help from a video playlist featuring NC State students. Explore With a Virtual Tour Can’t make it to Raleigh in person before you arrive at NC State? We’ve got you covered. Our virtual tours let you travel to campus from wherever you are. Main Campus The historic heart of NC State. Students live, attend many of their classes and share meals here. You’ll stroll the iconic Brickyard, relax on the Court of North Carolina, exercise at Carmichael Gymnasium and so much more. Tour Main Campus Centennial Campus As the home to more than 130 businesses, research labs, government agencies and NC State’s state-of-the-art Hunt Library, Centennial Campus offers a landscape for education and industry to unite. Tour Centennial Campus An exterior of the Fitts-Woolard engineering building on Centennial campus. Photo by Marc Hall Centennial Biomedical Campus Anchored by our world-renowned College of Veterinary Medicine, our innovative 250-acre biomedical campus connects researchers with corporate and government partners to advance animal and human health. Tour Biomedical Campus applyncstate applyncstate View May 30 Open applyncstate View May 26 Open applyncstate View May 18 Open applyncstate View May 16 Open applyncstate View May 9 Open applyncstate View May 4 Open applyncstate View Apr 26 Open applyncstate View Apr 24 Open applyncstate View Apr 21 Open applyncstate View Apr 20 Open applyncstate View Apr 19 Open applyncstate View Apr 18 Open applyncstate View Apr 15 Open applyncstate View Apr 14 Open applyncstate View Apr 13 Open Load More Start Your Adventure Here We’re proud of this dynamic campus we call home, and we can’t wait for you to see it for yourself — whether you’re joining us online or in person. Dig into visitor resources and other opportunities to engage with us: Download the Visitor Guide Organize a Group Visit Find Parking and Directions Book Lodging More Ways to Explore Admissions Events Browse upcoming admissions events designed to help you find out if our Pack is your perfect fit. See the calendar Instagram Live Our Instagram is your source for live video tours across campus, all led by NC State students. Get an inside look Discover the City of Oaks Our hometown, Raleigh, North Carolina, is one of the fastest-growing cities in the U.S. and a hub of culture and tech for our state. Just minutes from campus, you’ll find acres of gorgeous parks and greenways, a flourishing downtown (and foodie paradise), bustling business parks and so much more. Get to know Raleigh #2 Best Big City to Live In Right Now Money #3 Best Area for Business and Careers Forbes Next Steps Apply If you think NC State is right for you, we’re ready to welcome you home. Learn about our admissions process. Connect With Us Have questions for our team? Learn how to get in touch, find us on campus and more. Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.