Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Tuition & Aid / For Louisiana Residents / Our Promise to Louisiana custom css-js - global Our Promise to Louisiana Louisiana Center for College Access Tulane is furthering our commitment to Louisiana with our new college access initiative: The Louisiana Promise. A comprehensive plan to make higher education more accessible to Louisiana students, this initiative establishes a new college prep center for New Orleans students, access to Pre-College Programs, and a financial aid commitment to Louisiana admitted students. With the Louisiana Promise, if a Louisiana student's dream is to come to Tulane — if admitted — finances should no longer be an obstacle to overcome. Starting for admitted students for Fall of 2021, Tulane’s Louisiana Promise No Loan Assistance Scholarship will be available to meet full, institutionally-calculated financial need without loans for eligible undergraduates. Applicants admitted as Fall first-time, full-time freshmen to Tulane who are Louisiana residents, have graduated from a Louisiana high school and whose families make less than $100,000 a year adjusted gross income are eligible for the scholarship. In addition to our financial commitment, Tulane is further investing in our Pre-College Summer Programs by providing 50 full scholarships to select students to attend the two-week residential program. The Louisiana Promise is more than a scholarship program. It’s also a pledge to reach out to students early in their high school careers to help them prepare for the college selection and application process. That is why we are establishing a new college prep center hosted on Tulane's campus for New Orleans metro area students. The center aims to engage first-generation and underrepresented students who may have never considered Tulane or other selective universities as an option. Scholarship & Financial Aid Commitment Louisiana Promise No Loan Assistance Scholarship = standard financial aid cost of attendance for Fall/Spring minus family’s institutionally-calculated expected financial contribution minus any other gift or non-loan assistance (excluding State of Louisiana scholarship funding) Applicants eligible for consideration of the Louisiana Promise No Loan Assistance Scholarship funding will meet the following criteria: Have been admitted as a first-time, full-time freshman for a Fall semester (beginning in Fall 2021) Qualify for Tulane need-based Scholarship by April 15 Have family federal adjusted gross income of less than $100,000 per year for the calendar year associated with prevailing financial aid applications Have primary residence within the State of Louisiana Have graduated or will graduate from a Louisiana high school College Prep Center The Louisiana Center for College Access provides college access services to students from the New Orleans community. Open to those beginning their freshman year of high school, the center will assist aspiring first-generation college students and others who don’t have access to well-resourced college counseling programs. Admission Counselors from Tulane will cover areas like: Test prep - ACT/SAT The college application process The college search process and how to find the best fit for you The financial aid process College life and what to expect Social/emotional aspects of a college transition We are also in the process of building a parallel program for parents and guardians that covers the application process, financial aid, college transition for parents, and ways to connect with other first-generation families. Pre-College Summer Program Tulane's Pre-College Program is a two-week residential program that prepares students for the college application process. Students will stay on Tulane’s campus for two weeks and learn from Admission Counselors, student representatives, and others about how to get college ready. As part of the Louisiana Promise, Tulane will provide full funding to 50 students. For more information please visit https://summer.tulane.edu/apply Cost of Attendance Merit Scholarships Need-Based Aid For Louisiana Residents FAQs for Louisiana Legislative Scholars Program FAQs for Mayoral Scholars Program Our Promise to Louisiana Net Price Calculator Did You Know? At the first commencement address for the Tulane School of Medicine in 1836, the Dean delivered his entire speech in Latin. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University