Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Undergraduate Admissions Admissions right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) right arrow down arrow Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow In-Person Campus Tour right arrow down arrow Visitor Guidelines Campus Parking and Walking Directions Group Visit Self-Guided Visit Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First NEXT Innovation Scholarship Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media Admissions » Information for... » Transfer Students » FAQs Info for... High School Students Application Information Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) SRAR FAQ Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Test-Optional FAQ Test Plan Choice Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students Application Requirements First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition Scholarships Global Scholarship Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Frequently Asked Questions - Transfer Students The transfer process can be confusing, but don't worry. Below you will find questions that many students have throughout the process. What are Cincinnati's admission requirements? Can I change my major preferences after I've already applied? Does my current college or university have an articulation agreement with the University of Cincinnati? Will credits I've already earned transfer to Cincinnati? How does my Advanced Placement (AP) credit transfer to Cincinnati? Can I appeal a decision about my transfer credits? Will my financial aid transfer to Cincinnati? How do I transfer my financial aid to Cincinnati? What is a transfer module? What are my responsibilities as a transfer student during my admissions process? What are Cincinnati's admission requirements? The University of Cincinnati offers more than 300 undergraduate programs, with varying admission requirements, depending on which of Cincinnati's colleges offers the program. Your actual transfer requirements may differ based on how much post-high school education you have and on the program you wish to enter. In addition to course requirements, transfer students must be in good academic and financial standing at previously attended colleges or universities. Can I change my major preferences after I've already applied? If you have already submitted your application but have yet to enroll in your classes, the Office of Admissions can help you change your major preferences. Please contact your admissions counselor and they will walk you through the steps necessary to change your preferred major. Does my current college or university have an articulation agreement with the University of Cincinnati? An "Articulation Agreement" defines a relationship between two institutions of higher education that enables students to more easily transfer from their former institution to the University of Cincinnati. Cincinnati has articulation agreements with several colleges across the country and each agreement is outlined below. Consult the list of agreements below or ask your current academic advisor if your school has an articulation agreement with the University of Cincinnati. If they do have that agreement, you can count on your credits transferring to the University of Cincinnati. If your current institution does not have an articulation agreement, you can still transfer to the University of Cincinnati. Articulation agreements are at the discretion of the colleges and are subject to change. To view a list of the University of Cincinnati's current articulation agreements, please visit the Office of Advising and Academic Services website. Will credits I've already earned transfer to Cincinnati? The Center for Credit Evaluation evaluates how your credits translate to credit at the University of Cincinnati. They only evaluate your overall transfer credit, not how your credits will be applied to the specific program you are applying to. The Cincinnati college which offers the program you wish to enter will determine how accepted transfer credits are applied toward degree requirements. That determination is made after you are admitted to an academic program. For transfer credit to be granted, the institutions you have attended must be accredited by one of six regional accrediting agencies which are part of the Higher Learning Commission: Middle States, North Central, New England, Northwest, Southern, or Western Associations of Colleges and Schools. You can check your school's accreditation online at www.chea.org. General education requirements such as math, english, history and so on, will usually transfer to a direct equivalent. You must have earned a "D" or better grade for credits to transfer, unless the course was part of a transfer module or a degree you have completed. Your GPA from other institutions does not transfer to Cincinnati. Your University of Cincinnati GPA is based only on coursework completed at Cincinnati. Although you have already earned credits from another institution, you will need to meet the University of Cincinnati's residency requirements in order to be awarded a University of Cincinnati degree. Programs require at least 30 semester hours be earned at Cincinnati. Students are also expected to meet other degree requirements. For specific information about your degree, check individual program requirements. Students transferring from foreign universities must submit a course-by-course credit evaluation from a member of the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES). Can I appeal a decision about my transfer credits? Yes. Please read the University of Cincinnati Policy for Appealing the Application of Transfer Credit. How does my Advanced Placement (AP) credit transfer to Cincinnati? Credit for Advanced Placement examinations (AP) is granted, in most cases, for scores of 3 or higher. To find AP equivalencies, consult the AP Key. Send your original AP scores to the Undergraduate Office of Admissions. AP credit cannot be granted based on other college's transcripts. Will my financial aid transfer to Cincinnati? You can "transfer" your aid when you come to the University of Cincinnati, but, the nature of your aid may change when you change schools. Here are some factors that affect how your financial aid transfers to the University of Cincinnati: If you are eligible for aid at one school, your eligibility transfers with you. However, your aid must be re-awarded at the new school. Cincinnati will make the award for an incoming transfer student based on the terms remaining and the amount of federal and state aid that has already been used at the other school. If your current school begins its academic year in the summer, funds already awarded for summer will be counted when reviewing your funding-to-date. Federal Stafford Loan annual limits are based on class level. Therefore, some transfer students' loans will show as freshman-level loans until our system shows that you have been given advanced standing that puts you at a higher class level. Usually, any increase can be retroactive to the point you started at the University of Cincinnati. Institutional aid does not transfer. The University of Cincinnati will not be able to match or replicate scholarships or grants specific to your previous school or type of school (private school Ohio Choice Grant). Also, some federal programs are exhaustive, and we would not be able to give Federal SEOG or Federal Perkins Loan to a mid-year arrival. How do I transfer my financial aid to Cincinnati? To receive aid at the University of Cincinnati, you will need to add Cincinnati to the list of schools for which you are requesting aid. Several ways to do this are listed below. University of Cincinnati's school code: 003125. If requesting by phone, have a copy of your Student Aid Report (SAR) with you. If you do not have a copy of the form, you will need to request a duplicate by mail. After you receive it, you can call back and add Cincinnati to your report. What is a transfer module? The Ohio Board of Regents has established the Transfer Module, which is a specific set of courses from a college or university's general education requirements. The Transfer Module contains 36-40 semester hours of course credits in: English Composition Mathematics Fine Arts Humanities Social Science Behavioral Science Natural Science Physical Science Interdisciplinary Courses A Transfer Module completed at one Ohio public college or university will automatically meet the requirements of the Transfer Module at the receiving institution, after the student has been accepted. Students may be required to meet additional general education requirements that are not included in the Transfer Module. Since private colleges and universities in Ohio may or may not be participating in the Transfer Module policy, students are encouraged to check with the college of their choice regarding their transfer agreements. What are my responsibilities as a transfer student during my admissions process? To transfer with maximum applicability of transfer credit, prospective transfer students must plan a course of study to meet the requirements (both academic and non-academic) of the institution into which they wish to transfer. Planning for transfer should begin as early as possible. Delays in developing and following an appropriate plan or changing one's plan (e.g. changing majors) may reduce the applicability of transfer credit to the degree program ultimately selected. Prospective transfer students should: contact the Transfer & Transition Advising Center to gain program/degree and transfer information and work with an advisor to assist in preparing a course of study to meet the academic requirements for the intended program/degree. When possible, courses should be selected which satisfy requirements at the receiving institution to maximize applicability of transfer credit. (Articulation agreements between schools facilitate transferring.) be aware that remedial and developmental courses generally are not applicable to any degree program be aware that changes in course of study (e.g., change of major) will most likely reduce the number of credits which are applicable to the program ultimately selected at both the sending and receiving institutions understand the policies and procedures of the institutions to which they are applying, including application fees, transfer admission, course transfer, financial aid, scholarship and housing. This includes being aware of deadlines, restrictions and other criteria, such as the policies on deposits required prior to enrollment and the dates when refunds of those deposits are available (if refundable) complete all material required for application and submit the application on or before deadlines; request your transcripts to be sent to the University of Cincinnati. University of Cincinnati staff cannot request transcripts from another college or university on a student's behalf. notify each college or university where they are offered admission, whether they are accepting or rejecting the offer, as soon as they have heard from all the institutions or by the deadline date set by the respective institution confirm their intention to enroll and submit a deposit to only one college or university by its required notification date. Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top