Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Explore > After Your Degree After Your Degree In addition to being a “best college value” and producing some of the world’s most employable graduates, The University of Texas at Austin provides extensive on-campus opportunities—and real-world connections—that add value to your degree. Research Opportunities We’re committed to providing undergraduates with opportunities for hands-on research, and offerings like our Freshman Research Initiative and Bridging Disciplines Program prove it. We prioritize undergraduate research and other hands-on learning because it’s so valuable in helping students explore their options—and in opening doors, both to graduate programs and professional opportunities. Texas Exes The benefits of your degree don’t end once you leave campus—you're joining a network of 500,000 Longhorns. Graduates of UT Austin know that relationships matter, and that a handshake is worth something. The Texas Exes form a network of alumni, from Neil deGrasse Tyson to Matthew McConaughey, whose helping hands span the globe. So whether you’re in Taipei or Monterrey, you’re never too far from home. Want more about the success of our alumni? Find out about well-being, post-graduation success, collegiate experiences, and more in the spring 2017 Gallup UT Austin Alumni Survey. Quick Links Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Rankings Visit Campus Next: Back to Explore Go to The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022