Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Caroline York Class of 2025 back Click to Close Bio Hey y'all! I'm Caroline York, and I'm a '25 from Georgia! My hope is to share my Dartmouth experience with potential '26s, '27s, '28s and beyond! On campus, I write sports for The Dartmouth, a Center for Social Impact SIBS mentor, am in Christian life, a Tour Guide, a Dartmouth Emergency Medical Services (EMS) member, a Dartmouth Club Runner, and write for this blog! Otherwise, you'll find me enjoying winter, studying in the Tower Room, and eating warm FoCo cookies. Welcome to my world! Academic Program Classics on the Pre-Health track Favorite Thing Right Now Runs around Occom Pond! Hometown Marietta, Georgia Pronouns she/her About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines A Letter to Freshman Year back Click to Close Caroline's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallOn Campus Favorite Class: Indian Country Today I initially took this class because I wanted to know more about Dartmouth’s history with Native Americans. It ended up being my favorite class because Professor Duthu was so enthusiastic about Native American affairs. He related the lectures to his own experiences growing up on a reservation, which made the class come to life. WinterOn Campus Favorite Class: Ancient Medicine As a potential Classics major on the pre-health track, this class was perfect for me! We learned about different medical practices from Rome and Greece and how medicine had changed in the past 2,000 years. We had a class in the Geisel School of Medicine and got to hold human organs! « All Posts by this Blogger A Letter to Freshman Year Dear Freshman Year, I wanted to start by thanking you for everything. I'll be honest that when I started, I was really nervous. The thought of leaving my high school friends and family for a school far away scared me. When I was thrown into the woods surrounding Hanover during Freshman Trips, I got a taste for the outdoors culture that dominates Dartmouth, and I felt more sure for the upcoming year. My "tripees" on Freshman Trips! Orientation week was a whirlwind. I have never met so many people in one sitting! Bonfires, campus tours and days spent on the Connecticut River brought the Class of 2025 together. Fall term threw me into college life. Suddenly I was taking college level courses that really challenged me academically. I learned to ask for help from professors and other students that were invaluable in my classes. I also learned how enjoyable niche topics that college courses cover could be! Days spent at the Organic Farm Winter term was unlike anything I had ever experienced. The -20 degree days definitely challenged me, but I came out tougher and learned to be flexible with not-so-ideal weather days! I learned there is no such thing as bad weather, just bad gear. I started enjoying hockey games, which is nothing short of amazing for a southern girl! Students building a snowman! My favorite term this year was definitely spring term. The weather was beautiful, and the Connecticut River and Green were always calling my name. Our annual music festival, Green Key, was nothing short of amazing. My eighth-grade self was so excited to hear the headline performer, KYLE, sing all of his hits. Freshman year, you have given me countless academic and club opportunities, but what I'll remember most are the friends and connections I've made. While I won't remember every detail I learned in classes, I will never forget the memories I made with my classmates. Shoutout to the people I've met on my floor, clubs, classes, and simply out and about on campus. That is all to say thank you for the friendships, laughs, and little "hellos" from this year. Twelve more weeks until sophomore year! With Love, Caroline Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/31/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Freshman Year Social Life academics Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Posts You Might Like Visit the Blog Greenkey: dancing in a field to internationally famous mucisians in Hanover! Dartmouth has too many traditions to name, but Greenkey is one of the best ones! Read on to find out about my experience this year! Read More Luke Grayson 2025 Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Freshman Year: A Retrospective A look back at my first year at Dartmouth! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 Taking my Professor to Lunch! Here's a reflection on my experience taking my computer science professor out for a free meal paid for by the school! Read More Jack Heaphy 2024 Work Hard, Play Hard: A Green Key Weekend at Dartmouth! After two years, Dartmouth's annual spring festival, known affectionately as Green Key, occurred this weekend! The weekend held many events, but even so, I saw the Dartmouth culture of work hard, play hard. Read More Tulio Huggins 2023 Saint Motel Meets Hanover: Green Key 2022! As the 23s, 24s, and 25s shared our first Green Key together, Dartmouth ended up bringing my middle-school self's favorite band to campus: here's how my Green Key went! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Green Key!!!!!! It's a Dartmouth tradition to celebrate Green Key every spring. What exactly is Green Key you ask? In short, it is one of the best weekends ever. Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 Green Key 2022! Last week was week 8 of spring term at Dartmouth, which means only one thing: Green Key! Read More Love Tsai 2023 Art Classes at Dartmouth Here are the courses my friends and I have taken to fulfill the distributive requirement for art. Read More Eda Naz Gokdemir 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback