Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Interdisciplinary Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually Professor Dennis Washburn: "The best interdisciplinary courses are either team-taught by faculty from different fields, or actively highlight the knowledge produced by seeing directly how different disciplines approach a problem or ask a question" 21st-century problems don’t fall into traditional academic disciplines. Understanding how the brain processes language demands expertise in fields as diverse as philosophy and neuroscience while racial inequality is entwined with issues of economics, environmental studies, and gender studies. Dartmouth’s interdisciplinary programs combine with its distinctively flexible liberal arts curriculum to let you build your academic experience around the urgent problems you’re ready to solve. Our Faculty of Interdisciplinary Programs Say See Another Quote Jacqueline Wernimont "My research and teaching are broadly interdisciplinary and trans-historical (1600 to the present), and I focus on computational and digital media, exploring how we construct and consume both information and imaginative visions." Learn more about Jacqueline Wernimont, the Distinguished Professor in Digital Humanities and Social Engagement Jesse Shipley "I trace the socio-historical emergence of a national, urban public culture in Ghana by examining the changing aesthetics of leadership. I am concerned with the indeterminate and uncertain nature of national rituals and ceremonies and how marginalized people contest public space and political participation." Learn more about Jesse Shipley, the John D. Willard Professor of African and African American Studies and Oratory and Chair of Program Graziella Parati “It’s the ability to understand that in other people’s stories there is your story, and through that, to be able to create communities." Learn more about professor Graziella Parati, Professor of Comparative Literature, Professor of Women's and Gender Studies, Paul D. Paganucci Professor of Italian Language and Literature Michael Herron "Among other things, the Program in Quantitative Social Science teaches students how to merge data from disparate sources and visualize statistical relationships. Showing trends within a graph is a straightforward and powerful way to understand a subject" Learn more about Michael Herron, Remsen 1943 Professor of Government Yusaku Horiuchi "The most recent paper that I have published with my co-authors here at Dartmouth is (on) what American people think about the Muslim travel ban, how American people react to this policy, how their reactions are influenced by the media frame and also how their reactions are conditional on whether or not there are many refugees in their area." Learn more about Yusaku Horiuchi, Professor of Government, Mitsui Professor of Japanese Studies Cool Classes Dartmouth creates a rich academic culture imbued with critical thinking and creativity, one that promotes experimentation, reflection, learning, and leadership. But don't take our word for it. We asked our students to tell us about some of their favorite interdisciplinary courses. Academics at DartmouthResearch at Dartmouth Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. COCO 18: Impact Design A College Course, interdisciplinary in nature This fascinating and entirely project-based class really pushed the envelope. We were split into teams of six, and each team worked with an elderly couple in the Upper Valley where one partner has dementia. We studied the physiological effects of delight and created a delightful experience for the couple after conducting a mini-ethnography on their life. The class taught me about the power of delight, which- this sounds silly, but it's true- raised my quality of life. LING 35: Field Methods A Linguistics and Cognitive Science Program Course In this class, you work with a speaker of a language other than English and learn how to do linguistics fieldwork. On the first day, you do things like ask them to say "hello" and "cat" and try to transcribe them accurately. As the course moves on, you start analyzing the structure of the language and doing a directed, independent paper on a topic of your choice. This class is where I got the idea for my thesis. QSS 17: Data Visualization A Quantitative Social Science Program Course This class used a flipped classroom model, meaning that we watched taped lectures for homework and did exercises in class. I loved the interactive way it was run, and I especially liked how applicable the content is to so many disciplines. We learned the most common tools for data visualization, and how important it is when working with big data to be able manage it and make it accessible. INTS 80.01: The Wealth and Violence of Nations An International Studies (Minor) course As a freshman, I chose to take this upper-level seminar class that asks the question, “Are we living in a violent age?” We discussed whether research aligns with the commonly held perception that we are, or if violence has actually declined in today's society. It ended up becoming one of my favorite classes at Dartmouth- and Professor Clark has become my mentor and research advisor! LACS 020: Politics/ Ethics of Development: Nicaragua A Department of Latin American, Latino, and Caribbean Studies Course This class touched on many different aspects of development ethics, and we were exposed to texts and theory from many different disciplines (geography, history, linguistics, international development, anthropology, etc.). I also loved that the class was connected to the Cross-Cultural Education and Service Program (CCESP) where a group of Dartmouth students goes down to Nicaragua after taking the class and does community development and public/clinical health work. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Interdisciplinary Alumni Nobel laureates, government leaders, judges, scientists, writers, scholars, journalists, entertainers-Dartmouth alumni have distinguished themselves in all fields. Here are some notable alumni in the interdisciplinary fields making a difference in the world. Learn More About Our Alumni Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Jake Tapper ’91 Major: English & Visual Studies You may know Jake Tapper as the Chief Washington Correspondent for CNN and host of State of the Union and The Lead with Jake Tapper — but before he made it big in cable news, Jake was known on campus for his satirical cartoons in the student newspaper, The Dartmouth. Jake has hosted two presidential debates and has received numerous awards for his reporting, including an Emmy and an Edward R. Murrow Award. Michelle Khare ’14 Major: digital arts & media technology (self-designed) An extreme sports athlete and former Buzzfeed Video producer, Michelle recently set out on her own as an online content producer. These days, more than 687,000 YouTube subscribers tune in to funny and engaging videos in which Michelle tries out a variety of stunts ranging from UFC fighting to training like your favorite superheroes. At Dartmouth, Michelle honed her skills with a self-designed major in Digital Media and Technology. Kirsten Gillibrand ’88 Major: Asian Studies Kirsten Gillibrand has been a Democratic Senator from New York since 2009, prior to which she served in the U.S. House of Representatives. While a Dartmouth student majoring in Asian Studies, Kirsten studied abroad in both Beijing (with Connie Britton ’89) and in Taiwan, and finessed her leadership skills as co-captain of the squash team. She published a bestselling memoir in 2014. David Benioff ’92 Major: English David Benioff is best known for bringing epic fantasy to life as co-creator and showrunner of HBO’s Game of Thrones. Before he dove into the world of Westeros, David honed his writing skills by taking creative writing classes at Dartmouth and publishing what would become his first novel, The 25th Hour, in a student-run literary magazine. Connie Britton ’89 Major: Asian Studies Four-time Emmy-nominated actress Connie Britton is best known for her lead roles in Nashville and Friday Night Lights, but she is also a devoted humanitarian and a goodwill ambassador for the United Nations Development Programme. While she performed in several productions at Dartmouth, Connie was an Asian Studies major and studied abroad in Beijing with Kirsten Gillibrand ’88. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Study Interdisciplinary Programs Off Campus Select a Map Click to Open Study Interdisciplinary Programs Off Campus Basecamp to the World At Dartmouth, we have taken the traditional study abroad model, erased its boundaries, and expanded its parameters. Study abroad here is not an isolated semester in another country. Arranged through Dartmouth's Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education, these powerful learning experiences are enhanced through faculty mentorship. The curriculum and structure of the school year allow students to follow their research around the world. Dartmouth's Global Impact Click to stop viewing map. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog A Letter to Freshman Year With freshman year coming to a close, I wrote a Thank You note to one of the best years! Read More Caroline York 2025 Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Taking my Professor to Lunch! Here's a reflection on my experience taking my computer science professor out for a free meal paid for by the school! Read More Jack Heaphy 2024 Freshman Year: A Retrospective A look back at my first year at Dartmouth! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 Art Classes at Dartmouth Here are the courses my friends and I have taken to fulfill the distributive requirement for art. Read More Eda Naz Gokdemir 2025 Reflection: Spring Term Week 8 I am writing this blog post as I enter week 9 of my spring term. The weather is so sunny, refreshing, and awesome (it reminds me a lot of the weather in California). I am dedicating this post as a reflection on my week 8. Read More Toni Fabian 2025 Wait, You're Not Taking Classes? This term, I am doing a research fellowship through the Leslie Center for Humanities! Read More Tulio Huggins 2023 Advice from a Dartmouth '25 Now, I am wrapping up my first year at Dartmouth. After reflecting on my experience thus far, I want to offer some advice to prospective and admitted students. Read More Toni Fabian 2025 Transitioning into the "Why Not?" Mindset I'm nearing the end of my first year of college and I've gained some perspective on my mentality and how Dartmouth has sculpted my mindset. Read More Gavin Fry 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Jump To: Major Click to Open African and African American Studies Middle Eastern Studies Comparative Literature Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Linguistics Native American Studies Quantitative Social Science Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Back to top chevrons up African and African American Studies Bachelor of Arts The interdisciplinary field of African and African American Studies (AAAS) provides an invaluable foundation in critical thinking, research, writing, and analysis—skills that form the core of a liberal arts education. The interdisciplinary nature of AAAS allows for a rich and challenging course of inquiry, benefiting students with interests in history, policy, culture, language, law, foreign affairs, and education, among other areas. The African and African American Studies Program at Dartmouth originated in 1969, making it one of the oldest programs of its kind in the nation. Utilizing innovative avenues of theoretical and empirical investigation, students explore questions and issues that shape the historical, social, political and cultural constructions and transformations of the African diaspora. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Middle Eastern Studies Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Video: 'Soundscapes of the Middle East' Because of the pivotal role that the Middle East will play in the geo-politics, economics, and history of the twenty-first century, students with a strong background in the region are well prepared for a wide array of professional opportunities, including consulting, NGOs, development, government, medicine, and law—especially students who begin Arabic or Hebrew during their first term at Dartmouth. The Middle Eastern Studies (MES) Program brings together scholars from a wide range of disciplines to teach and research the great civilizations, societies, and cultures of the Middle East and North Africa. MES offers students an array of courses on history, politics, religion, literature, and culture of the region (taught in English), as well as state-of-the-art language training in Arabic and Hebrew. MES also offers advanced seminars utilizing primary source materials. In addition to its on-campus academic programs, MES offers a range of study abroad opportunities, and the relationships that develop between professors and students in MES often extend beyond students' time at Dartmouth. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Comparative Literature Bachelor of Arts Comparative Literature is an interdisciplinary program that promotes the comparative study of literatures in different languages and the study of the relationship between literature and other human activity. It pays attention to language and to the relationship between literature and other disciplines and practices, such as the visual and performing arts, philosophy, history, the social sciences, religion, and mathematics. Comparative Literature students at Dartmouth enjoy studying literature and culture from an array of critical perspectives. Among these are rhetoric and poetics, translation and reception, film theory and media studies, colonial and postcolonial studies, theories of ethnic and national identities, and gender and queer theory. Majors develop competence in at least one language other than their native language and work with original texts in more than one language. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Jewish Studies Minor in Jewish Studies Jewish Studies is an academic discipline that focuses on the historical and cultural experience of Jews throughout the world, as well as on Jewish thought, literature, and contemporary political and social issues. It includes ancient, medieval, modern, and contemporary Jewish history, Jewish literature and linguistics in Hebrew, Yiddish, and the other Judaic languages, and also the study of Judaism and Jewish philosophy. Dartmouth’s program in Jewish Studies is a multi-disciplinary gathering of the various courses in Jewish history, religion, literature, and culture offered at the College. The department’s faculty are among the most highly respected scholars and teachers in the field. The Jewish Studies minor gives students an opportunity to do intensive work within the discipline. Those completing the minor are encouraged, but not required, to obtain at least a working knowledge of Hebrew. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Minor Requirements Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Orienting to Dartmouth Through the Orozco Mural Latin American, Latino, & Caribbean Studies (LALACS) is a vibrant and expanding area of academic activity attracting scholars from a wide range of disciplines, including history, music, film and media studies, economics, languages, geography, politics, anthropology, international relations, sociology, and literature. LALACS studies important traditional topics like poverty, injustice, and inequality, but also exciting contemporary developments such as the indigenous resurgence across the region. Dartmouth’s interdisciplinary LALACS program consists of two separate tracks: Latin American and Caribbean Studies (LACS) and Latino Studies (LATS). LALACS alumni have pursued further education and also worked in business, education, and consulting--in both South America and the United States--in the fields of banking, investment, law, and in governmental and non-governmental agencies. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Linguistics Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Video: 'Soundscapes of the Middle East' Linguistics is the study of language — not so much a specific language, but of the system of language and the way humans communicate. Topics integral to linguistics include the physiology of language, the physical properties of language, the roles that it plays in determining cultural and social categories, the relationship between language and thought, the underlying manner in which sentences are structured, the way language conveys meaning, and the manner in which other systems may imitate natural languages. The Program in Linguistics at Dartmouth offers a major and minor in Linguistics. Students may also modify another major with linguistics, or modify linguistics with another major. Students interested in linguistics should consult with a Linguistics faculty member in advance of major declaration in order to plan a program that suits their needs and interests. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Native American Studies Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News ‘Encountering Forests’ Teaches Native American Practices Native American Studies (NAS) strives to develop interdisciplinary teaching and research and increase understanding of the historical experiences, cultural traditions and innovations, and political status of Indian peoples in the United States and Canada. Dartmouth offers both a major and minor in Native American Studies. The Native American & Indigenous Studies department faculty consists of scholar-teachers with a broad range of expertise from diverse backgrounds, including Native faculty members from the United States and Canada and non-Native faculty from the United States, Russia, and Britain. The Native American & Indigenous Studies program attracts a varied body of students who bring their own perspectives to the classroom setting. Our students build upon their individual experiences and understandings in a shared learning environment. Many NAD alumni remain in close contact, returning each spring for the annual Dartmouth College Powwow. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Quantitative Social Science Bachelor of Arts Quantitative Social Science (QSS) is an interdisciplinary program that provides students with both technical skills—concentrated in statistics and computing—and a grounding in a social science. Prior to 2015, the program was called the Program in Mathematical Social Sciences. QSS brings together Dartmouth faculty and students who are interested in applying statistical, computational, and mathematical tools to social science questions. QSS offers undergraduates a minor and an honors major, both of which combine mathematical training with one or more of the social sciences. Through QSS, Dartmouth undergraduates can integrate the power of modern quantitative and computational methods with the substance of a social science discipline. QSS alumni have pursued career options ranging from university teaching to research, law, business, medicine, public service, and a variety of other careers. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Students Work With Female Inmates to Make ‘It’s Criminal’ The academic discipline of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies informs the ongoing conversation in our society about gender equality. It gives students a theoretical base for a systematic analysis of the construction of gender and the historical, economic, political, social, and cultural experiences of women. Established in 1978, Dartmouth College’s Women’s Studies Program was the first such program in the formerly all-male Ivy League. Today, the interdisciplinary WGSS Program draws on resources from the Social Sciences, the Arts and Humanities, and the Sciences. The program offers a range of courses that have a central focus on gender or women, as well as an extensive list of associated courses offered by other departments and programs. Students in the program work closely with faculty members and have the opportunity to design their majors in consultation with the department Chair. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback