Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Welcome This is the University of Washington, and our home is a stunning campus in the heart of an energetic and forward-thinking city. Our students are dreamers and doers, and together we aim to be the greatest public university in the world — as measured by our impact. Join us to unleash potential, create beauty and spark action. Because what you care about can change the world. Play Video Scroll downPurple downward facing arrow We want to learn about you. The UW values the diversity of experience, culture and talent of our students. You aren’t just a set of numbers. We want to know more. Congrats NEW HUSKIES! Learn more Rankings #4 Among U.S. Public Institutions Times Higher Education, 2021 #1 Most Innovative University in the World Reuters, 2019 #3 Public U.S. University that "Pays Off the Most" CNBC Make it, 2020 Visit Experience the UW for yourself. Only you can decide if it feels like home. Learn more Freshman viewbook Click to kick off your Husky Experience! Explore highlights of UW, Seattle and the Pacific Northwest with this interactive guide. Interactive viewbook (PDF version) Academics At the UW, we see things differently. That goes for majors, too. What ignites your love for learning? Learn more about academics Costs We believe everyone should have the opportunity to attend the UW. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. Learn more about financial aid Student Life Your Husky Experience doesn’t end when you leave the classroom. The time you spend outside of class can be just as transformative. Learn more about student life Shoreline, WA My Husky experience has taught me my potential as a leader, an activist, and a scholar. I study the intersections between issues of injustice and the climate crisis, and have spent my time at the UW ... Lillian M. B.A.: Political science; B.A.: Environmental studies Read more Manila, PH It is through storytelling, production, and creative programming that I satiate my passions for collaboration and community building. The stories I’ve championed, programs I’ve orchestrated, and ... Gabrielle B.A.: Business Administration (Marketing & Entrepreneurship); B.A.: Cinema & Media Studies Read more Kenmore, WA As a Husky, I have synthesized my knowledge across disciplines to promote a better life for people with neurological conditions through research, tutoring, and an initiative I founded to promote ... Tiara B.S.: Public Health-Global Health; B.S.: Neuroscience Read more Join the email list Get tips from our Admissions team on: How to submit the strongest application Important deadlines Majors and academic programs Campus tours and UW events in your area Join As a university that is committed to diversity, equity and inclusion, we know that all student experiences…contribute to the vibrancy and excellence of our campus community Rickey Hall VP for Minority Affairs & Diversity — University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA