Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Engineering Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually Dean Alexis R. Abramson: "Our human-centered approach to engineering empowers students to learn, discover, and address complex problems in novel ways. Dartmouth engineers collaborate across disciplines to form fully realized solutions in any domain." The world needs technical leaders to create solutions to pressing problems facing humanity in areas such as energy, healthcare, the environment, sustainability, security, and communications. Such problems don't fall neatly within disciplinary boundaries. That's why Thayer School takes a non-departmental, interdisciplinary approach to engineering. Our project-based curriculum focuses on the system fundamentals that apply to all areas of engineering, giving our students the critical skills for solving the complex problems of today and the uncharted challenges of tomorrow. Our Faculty of Engineering Say See Another Quote Eric Fossum Next time you take a selfie, thank Eric Fossum, inventor of the CMOS image sensor that makes it possible for a high-powered camera to fit inside your smart phone. Of the impact of [his work], he says, “When I travel around the world to cities, national parks, or attend a conference, or look at Facebook and see everyone using this technology, it’s really just incredible." Learn more about professor Eric Fossum, director of Thayer’s PhD innovation program, and associate provost for entrepreneurship and technology transfer Mary Albert “With the currently changing climate, it has never been more important to understand how the Earth system works in the context of past climate. From this knowledge we can learn about what to anticipate in the future.” Learn more about Mary Albert, Professor of Engineering Ryan Halter By combining electrical impedance sensing with a conventional pressure sensor, professor Ryan Halter (far left, shown here with other Thayer School faculty) is creating an early warning system that may help doctors treat traumatic brain injuries before they permanently damage the brain. Learn more about Ryan Halter, Assistant Professor of Engineering and Adjunct Assistant Professor of Surgery, Geisel School of Medicine Cool Classes Dartmouth creates a rich academic culture imbued with critical thinking and creativity, one that promotes experimentation, reflection, learning, and leadership. But don't take our word for it. We asked our students to tell us about some of their favorite engineering courses. Dartmouth Engineering ResearchThayer School of EngineeringAcademics at Dartmouth Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. ENGS 002: Integrated Design A Department of Engineering Sciences Course We looked at the roles of architects and engineers in today’s changing world, and how recently these came to be considered different professions. It really showed how collaborative the design process is, and I loved how interactive this class was. It was a lecture-based class, but we often had in-class building activities and one large project - building a cardboard chair! ENGS 12: Design Thinking A Department of Engineering Sciences Course The hype around this class is real. Through pure luck, I took ENGS12 my freshman fall. It teaches students the basics of human-centered design (ideation, prototyping, content collaboration, etc) through a series of fast-paced projects. Experiencing human-centered design has encouraged me to take on any project, knowing it can be broken down into manageable chunks with the help of other smart people. I'm now a TA for this course, getting paid to help with a class I love. There's no better job. ENGS 21: Introduction to Engineering A Department of engineering sciences Course If you're interested in experiential learning, this is one of my favorite intro courses, where students create solutions to real-world problems. In addition to learning how to turn an identified problem into a functional solution, ENGS 21 also teaches students about the patent process, and a number of former class projects have been patented and turned into marketed products! ENGS 75: Product Design A Department of Engineering sciences Course This product design course uses a human-centered design approach to solve complex problems facing real people all over the world. I applied what I've learned about design thinking, systems mechanics, social entrepreneurship and qualitative research to tangible products. Not only is the class geared around projects, but guest lectures from visiting professors and professional designers add an additional element that highlights how far-reaching the implications of successful product design can be! Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Engineering Alumni Nobel laureates, government leaders, judges, scientists, writers, scholars, journalists, entertainers-Dartmouth alumni have distinguished themselves in all fields. Here are some notable alumni in the engineering field making a difference in the world. Learn More About Our Alumni Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Tomasz Tunguz ’04 Th’04 Th’05 Major: Engineering Tomasz Tunguz was a member of the crew team at Dartmouth, where he studied machine learning and mechanical engineering, and also earned a master’s in engineer management from Thayer. After college Tomasz quickly moved into the venture capital world, and he’s now managing director at Repoint Ventures. He also co-authored the book Winning with Data. Maia Josebachvilli ‘05 Major: Engineering While an engineering student at Dartmouth, Maia fell in love with skydiving and introduced hundreds of fellow students to the adventure through the club she formed. She put that passion to work after graduation when she founded Urban Escapes, a company offering outdoor adventures to adults. After being honored on Inc Magazine's 30 Under 30 and selling the company to LivingSocial, Maia spent a year and a half spent traveling the world before joining Greenhouse Software as vice president of strategy and marketing. Anna Stork ’08 Major: Engineering Anna Stork’s entrepreneurial instincts have provided light to disaster victims worldwide. After studying engineering at the Thayer School of Engineering she became the co-inventor of the LuminAID, an inflatable solar-rechargeable light designed to assist in disaster relief efforts. The product was featured on Shark Tank and is available for sale, and was recently used to assist Hurricane victims in Puerto Rico. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Study Engineering Off Campus Select a Map Click to Open Study Engineering Off Campus Basecamp to the World At Dartmouth, we have taken the traditional study abroad model, erased its boundaries, and expanded its parameters. Arranged through Dartmouth's Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education, study abroad here is not an isolated semester in another country. The curriculum and structure of the school year allow students to follow their research around the world. Dartmouth's Global Impact Click to stop viewing map. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog You might ask, "What do people even do in ENGS 23?" Read More Adventures in ENGS 23 Lab Isabel Burgess 2020 Jump To: Major Click to Open Engineering Sciences Biomedical Engineering Sciences Engineering Physics Human-Centered Design Materials Science Bachelor of Engineering Back to top chevrons up Engineering Sciences Bachelor of Arts Dartmouth AB candidates who major in engineering sciences learn to synthesize concepts from many fields and also have the opportunity to specialize in a chosen area. They can join multidisciplinary research teams and collaborate with faculty and graduate students. AB candidates who also plan to pursue the BE and are interested in specific engineering fields can use a variety of sample programs as models when designing their individual programs. Students can also choose to complement a major in another discipline with a minor in Engineering Sciences. Related LinksClick to Open About Engineering at Dartmouth Graduation Requirements Bachelor of Engineering Biomedical Engineering Sciences Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Dartmouth and UNH Team Up to Develop Better Biomaterials Biomedical engineering is the broad area of study in which engineers use an interdisciplinary approach to solve problems in the medical field often associated with the interaction between living and non-living systems. The breadth of solution methodologies requires biomedical engineers to take a quantitative approach to system analysis in “traditional” engineering fields, while simultaneously employing a fundamental understanding of the relevant life sciences. Dartmouth’s biomedical engineering sciences major is offered to students interested in medical school. Faculty from Thayer School and The Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth jointly advise the research projects. The Geisel School of Medicine offers an opportunity for accomplished engineering sciences majors to apply for admission to The Geisel School through the Biomedical Engineering Early Assurance Program (BME EAP). Related LinksClick to Open About Engineering at Dartmouth Graduation Requirements Bachelor of Engineering Engineering Physics Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Cell Power: A Visit With Professor Rahul Sarpeshkar Students who love both engineering and physics can pursue an engineering physics major offered jointly by the Department of Engineering Sciences and the Department of Physics and Astronomy. The Engineering Physics Major consists of a 5/5 split of 10 courses between Engineering Sciences and Physics. These courses include three required core courses, two electives in engineering, and two electives in physics. Students wishing to pursue the B.E. degree are advised to choose an Engineering Sciences course as an elective. Students majoring in Engineering Physics also complete a culminating experience, either as one of the two electives involved in the major or as an additional course. Related LinksClick to Open About Engineering at Dartmouth Graduation Requirements Bachelor of Engineering Human-Centered Design Minor Featured Program Video Play Button Senior Design Challenge BACK Senior Design Challenge The Senior Design Challenge is a capstone course for seniors passionate about tackling real-world challenges using human-centered design. In this course, students work with organizations across a broad range of industries to create innovative solutions to challenges affecting our community. Students are selected from across the campus for their passion and skills to work on interdisciplinary teams. They spend the Winter and Spring terms (January through May) applying the design process to an innovation challenge determined in partnership with a partner organization. This video was produced as part of the Media Makers program funded by the Experiential Learning Initiative. Student Producers: Daniela Armas '20, Emily Crocetti '20, Veselin Nanov '20, Barbara Olachea Lopez Portillo '19, Mariah Reese '17, TH '19 Video of Senior Design Challenge https://www.youtube.com/embed/YfTW9EmH864?wmode=opaque&controls=&origin=http://admissions.dartmouth.edu&autoplay=1&mute=0 The minor in Human-Centered Design is an interdisciplinary program focused on the process of innovation to address human needs. Dartmouth students pursuing the Human-Centered Design minor gain an intellectual foundation for the minor through coursework in introductory engineering and design thinking before advancing to study ethnographic methods of anthropology and research. Students also explore the human factors that shape design thinking—including perception, learning, social psychology, cognitive neuroscience, emotion, and cognition—before completing the minor with elective coursework in topics like sustainable design, digital parts, architecture, and social entrepreneurship. Related LinksClick to Open About Engineering Design at Dartmouth Graduation Requirements Bachelor of Engineering Materials Science Minor Featured Program News Creating New High-Efficiency Solar Power Systems The study of Materials Science and Engineering relates the properties of materials –chemical electrical, magnetic, mechanical, optical—to their internal architecture or microstructure. In turn, structure is related to processing—solidification, thermal/mechanical treatment, vapor deposition and so forth—and to the underlying thermodynamic "driving forces" and kinetics that underlie changes in structure and hence in properties and behavior. Fundamental to the study are both qualitative and quantitative methods of microstructural analysis. The departments of Chemistry, Physics, and Engineering Sciences offer the minor in Materials Science, which can be combined with majors in any of the three areas. The minor requires prerequisites in chemistry and physics and consists of coursework in materials science, methods of experimental physics, methods of materials characterization, and electives from three different topic areas within the discipline. Related LinksClick to Open About Engineering at Dartmouth Graduation Requirements Bachelor of Engineering Bachelor of Engineering Bachelor of Engineering (BE) All engineering sciences majors earn a Dartmouth AB, and most take additional courses to also earn a Bachelor of Engineering (BE). Dartmouth's BE is a professional degree accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. The degree generally takes one to three terms of additional study, depending on the courses taken during the first four years. Advanced standing on entry to Dartmouth may shorten the time required. Most students add a fifth year to earn the BE (financial aid is available), but students may also finish a combined AB/BE in four years. The flexibility of the five-year BE program makes it possible for students majoring in Physics or Computer Science at Dartmouth to also obtain the BE with an additional year of study following the AB. Students interested in pursuing a BE are encouraged to work closely with their assigned faculty advisor to develop a multi-year course progression plan that will meet degree requirements, and the student's personal academic goals. Related LinksClick to Open Bachelor of Engineering Graduation Requirements About Engineering at Dartmouth Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback