Skip to main content Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Connect Visit Apply Search Search Menu Menu Search for: Search Clear Search Close Search Our StudentsToggle Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus LifeToggle Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Connect Visit Apply Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Homepage HOW MANY LIVES CAN YOU LIVE IN FOUR YEARS? Our Students 01 Campus Life 02 Financial Support 03 With exceptional academics, enviable spirit, and a community of support, there’s no school quite like Duke. 6,542 total number of undergraduates 54% of undergraduates study away 8:1 student-to-faculty ratio Meet curious, collaborative, and impact-driven students like you. Explore what life is like on campus. See how to make it all possible, with financial support. Quote Created with Sketch. The Duke experience is all-encompassing, interactive, and vibrant. There’s an element of camaraderie here that doesn’t exist anywhere else. Edward Coles Class of 2021 Experience Duke Virtually Schedule a virtual visit Arrow Right Created with Sketch. Ready to Take the Plunge? Learn more about admissions Arrow Right Created with Sketch. Important Dates Nov 1 Early Decision Deadline Jan 4 Regular Decision Deadline Mar 15 Transfer Application Deadline Parents and Counselors WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW Applying to college can be stressful for the student as well as their biggest supporters. We’re here to help navigate an otherwise complex process to ensure it’s a seamless one for everyone involved. Parents and Family Learn moreParents and Family School Counselors Learn moreSchool Counselors Additional Questions? Explore FAQs Our Students 01 Campus Life 02 Financial Support 03 Join Our Mailing List Sign Up Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support © DUKE.EDU 2022 Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Disable Animations