Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Explore Explore Texas Discover what it means to be a Longhorn You embrace a challenge. You’re open to discovery. You want to change the world, for yourself and for others. And you’re not afraid to admit it. Consider, then, a place committed to innovative learning and research—an environment that encourages creativity, analysis and critical thinking while working to find solutions to real-world problems. Imagine yourself on campus by exploring it with our 360 Virtual Tour. See yourself at the heart of a vibrant city that expands opportunities for learning—that is, when it’s not paying it forward or keeping it weird. Become a part of a diverse community known around the world for its bold spirit of pride and competitiveness. Define your future as you realize you’re free to question ideas, pursue long-held passions and explore new interests—to redefine what’s possible. Be Inspired at UT Are you ready to get started? Because we can help you with that. We’re The University of Texas at Austin. What starts here changes the world. The Forty Acres At The University of Texas at Austin, students have the opportunity to rub elbows with top faculty, join one of 1,300 student organizations, and cheer the Longhorns to victory alongside 100,119 other fans—all in a single day. Learn More Beyond Campus Austin, Texas, is a city for the 21st century—diverse yet inclusive. Known for “keeping it weird,” it’s the 11th-largest city in the United States. Most importantly, it’s the place Longhorns (both near and far) call home. Learn More After Your Degree The University of Texas at Austin provides on-campus opportunities—and real-world connections—that add value to your degree. Make friends in the Freshman Research Initiative. Four years later, find them again in the ranks of your fellow Texas Exes. Learn More Rankings The University of Texas at Austin is recognized around the world for excellence. We’re named to: U.S. News & World Report’s list of Top Public Schools (2021) Forbes’ list of America’s Top 100 Colleges (2019) The top 50 in Times Higher Education’s World University Rankings (2021) More Rankings admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022