Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Business and related programs Business-Related Programs Be an Innovator Related Majors Download Brochure Apply Now Request Information Change-makers, go-getters and trailblazers drive progress in business and in life. Be one. We emphasize innovation, real-world experience and corporate citizenship throughout the curriculum. You’ll discover how to create a new product or service or make an existing one better. Get your foot in the door with a multinational corporation and work your way up. Turn a great idea into your own startup. Help a small business become a bigger one. Apply your skills in a public agency or nonprofit. However you want to make your mark, Oregon State University offers vibrant, relevant programs to get you going. The proof is in Oregon State graduates, including many who have gone on to management and executive positions with Fortune 500 companies. We’re also known for giving entrepreneurs a head start — plenty of students use our business spaces to launch their own companies while they’re still in school. To make sure you get off to a good start and stay on course for graduation, you should meet with an advisor as you plan your first-year program — and at regular intervals after that. The next great business leader is out there. It could be you. Put yourself out there. Oregon State offers a resource-rich environment that encourages you to take advantage of opportunities like the Honors College and study abroad programs. Because many businesses cross national borders, international experience can be especially valuable. The College of Business sponsors study abroad, global internships and exchange programs in Australia, Austria, China, Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Ireland, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Spain, Sweden and Thailand. Students in other business-related majors can choose from a variety of university-sponsored international study programs. Bring your career goals a lot closer to reality. With a focus on business, you could be: A Certified Public Accountant, an auditor or a tax accountant. An executive or merchandiser in an import-export company or other international trading firm. The executive in charge of a hospital, long-term care facility or other health care operation. A business analyst, applying information technologies to support a company’s strategic planning. A buyer, merchandiser, planner or manager in a retail operation. The manager of a restaurant or food service operation in a school or business. A quality-control specialist in a construction or building-materials firm. A marketer promoting a business, nonprofit organization or public agency. A small-business owner or an entrepreneur helping to run a startup company. Have a big idea? Act on it. Join Launch Pad, and you can start right away. This program is open to first-year students in any major who are interested in entrepreneurship and innovation. You’ll get personalized support and mentorship while you learn how to take a big idea from concept to reality. You’ll also have opportunities to start and grow a venture of your own. Get ready for what's next. In the world of business, you need a wide range of skills, and that starts early with a well-balanced college preparatory curriculum, including English and mathematics. You should have fundamental computer skills as well. And because business is about people, volunteer work and other extracurricular activities can help you develop social and leadership skills during your high school career. Earn your degree from an accredited business school. The College of Business offers an AACSB-accredited, research-based curriculum to prepare you for a successful career in a global, knowledge-based economy. Along with nationally recognized faculty, the college offers distinguished programs in entrepreneurship and family business. Connect with us and we'll send you more information Loading... 2col-business-900x507.jpg Multiple scholarships are available. Be sure to apply. Get some help paying for college with a variety of university-wide and departmental scholarships. Most scholarships are awarded based on information in the Oregon State application, but others require separate applications, such as our OSU ScholarDollars portal. The deadline to apply for university scholarships is Feb. 1. Be sure to check with your college and department on the deadlines for other scholarships. Apply Now. Put yourself out there. Oregon State offers a resource-rich environment that encourages you to combine your studies in health and wellness with opportunities like the Honors College and study abroad programs. You’ll find challenging, unique experiences that support your academic, professional and personal growth — and have fun, too. Research lets you discover and solve. Like internships, research experience can give you an advantage when applying to graduate and professional programs. In most health areas, you’ll have opportunities to make real contributions to faculty and graduate students’ research projects. You may also develop and pursue your own research addressing local, national and international health concerns. Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram