Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Undergraduate Office of Admissions Menu Search Log In Why Nebraska Majors Career Connections Social Connections Academic Life Visit Nebraska Visit Lincoln Apply Admissions Requirements Enrollment Deposit Cost & Aid Scholarship Statement Nebraska Promise Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes Contact Us Information for… First Generation Students High Ability Students International Students LGBTQA+ Students Native American Students Nebraska Now School Counselors Students with Disabilities Transfer Students Undergraduate Online Programs Underrepresented Minorities Veteran and Active Military Students Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Admissions Why Nebraska Academic Life Academic Life Your browser does not support the video tag. Through a balance of academic and career activities, you’ll build a strong foundation for your career or graduate school at Nebraska. Double arrow pointing down Lay a Solid Foundation for Your Career At Nebraska, our Big Ten academic community will give you what you need to prepare for a great job after graduation—classrooms and labs filled with the latest technology and direct access to your professors. Engage in undergraduate research with top Nebraska faculty. Start your own club with your motivated peers. Get the experience you need to lay a solid foundation for an exciting career and get 1-to-1 guidance along the way. Connect the Classroom to Your Goals: Malayna Wingert For as long as she can remember, Malayna has had a deep connection to nature. At Nebraska, her love for learning grew when she found opportunities to pursue exciting environmental research. Read More about Malayna Wingert on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Business News Students at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln College of Business turned ideas into action running their own businesses through a weeklong startup simulation called The Crash Course. Undergraduates involved in the Clifton Strengths Organization (CSO), a recognized student organization, gained the hands-on learning experience of operating a startup and ended with a profit of more than $2,000. Read More on Nebraska Business News Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL CASNR @unl_casnr In our Regional and Community Forestry program, students learn to lead the industry in tree management and planning, to build vibrant and resilient communities. With options in either urban forestry management or arboriculture, students are well prepared for careers ranging from those in concrete jungles to those in redwood forests. Read More on UNL CASNR's full post on Instagram Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL IANR @unl_ianr Pollen pours out of a bag as Cleopatra Babor, a junior in plant biology, pollinates the silks of an ear of corn as part of her McNair Scholar research project. Babor researches in the lab of David Holding, associate professor of #agronomy and #horticulture. The team is crossing sweet corn with colored #corn to produce colorful varieties in the #research fields on East Campus. Read More on UNL IANR's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today Husker students embedded themselves into the sights, sounds and scenes of prairie authors this summer through "Literature in the Environment," a course offered by Nebraska's Department of English. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Lay a Solid Foundation for Grad School If you're interested in advanced study, Nebraska's academic environment can challenge you to stretch your strengths and help you develop the skills you need to get in. Through our undergraduate research program, UCARE, you'll have the chance to work 1-to-1 with a faculty member in your academic program to conduct cutting-edge research. Our Explore Center and Career Services will support you through entrance exams and interviews, so you'll feel prepared to make it into your program of choice. Learn More About Pre-Health at Nebraska Learn more about Pre-Law at Nebraska Grad School Game Plan: Riha Karney With her sights set on an M.S. in speech-language pathology & audiology, Riha Karney is crafting a stellar application through leadership roles and relationship building. Read More about Riha Karney on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Dept of Comm Studies @unlcommdept Congratulations to one of our Communication Studies majors Clare Frances Kennedy who will be presenting her paper titled: “It Costs a Lot of Money to Look this Cheap”: Dolly Parton’s Depiction of Rural Femininity in “Backwards Barbie” at the 2021 No Limits Conference! Such a remarkable accomplishment! Read More on UNL Dept of Comm Studies's full post at Instagram Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram The College of Arts and Sciences @unlcas Near, far, forever you are Huskers. 💞 Shoutout to all the grads continuing their studies! Where will curiosity move you? Read More on Nebraska CAS's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska College of Business News The cultural connections at the College of Business and the diversity of ideas in the Actuarial Science Program helped lead Aaron Wang to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) for a master’s degree this fall Read More on Nebraska Business News Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram University of Nebraska–Lincoln @unlincoln For Women’s History Month, we’re featuring some of our impactful female students. This week, meet Noha Algahimi, a chemical engineering major from Lincoln. At Nebraska, she’s conducting research, sharing her passion for engineering and preparing to make an impact by entering med school. Read More on University of Nebraska–Lincoln's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Get to Know Your Faculty Whether you have questions about your homework, need a book recommendation or simply want to say hi, our professors are here to provide you with the guidance you need to reach your full potential. Nebraska's smaller size makes it easy for you to get to know your professors, so you can work 1-to-1 to apply what you've learned in class to solve real-world problems through research, internships, study abroad programs and more. Here to Help: Matt Waite “Every professor I know wants you to succeed. We're all human and we've all been a student before. If you're struggling, if you have something you're wondering about class or career, if you've got some life-changing opportunity coming up, talk to your professors.” Read More about Matt Waite on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL CoJMC @unlcojmc Over the summer, junior advertising and public relations major, Lauren Tritch, worked in Minneapolis, MN as an account services intern at @thelacekgroup . She had the opportunity to work with three high-profile clients while managing projects and working closely with her team members—she even had a visit from one of her favorite professors at the J school, Jemalyn Griffin! Read More on UNL CoJMC's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram The School of Computing @unlcomputing Associate professor @_drbonita_s_ and her students have been spending this summer at coding camps with @girlsinc_lincoln! We’ve enjoyed having these young women in our department and helping them develop skills and interests that may eventually become their passions and careers. Read More on The School of Computing's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Jake Bartecki @barteckihimself_ Very honored to receive the Nebraska Broadcasters Association award for Best Sports Story on Nebraska’s 2018 Matchup with Colorado. MASSIVE shoutout to everyone at @unlcojmc and all my colleagues in the @krnusports sports staff for the help making this possible!! Read More on Jake Bartecki's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Nebraska College of Business @nebraskabiz Dr. Kalu Osiri went from a chemistry lab to global education. His multicultural upbringing in Benin, West Africa, laid the foundation for his current work as director of the International Business Program in the College of Business. Read More on Nebraska College of Business' full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Kickstart Your Academic Career Through Research Research experience can prepare you for your career or graduate school. As a Husker, you'll have the resources you need to carry out groundbreaking research 1-to-1 with Nebraska's brightest faculty through the Undergraduate Creative Activities and Research Experience (UCARE) program. Gain a deep understanding of your discipline, develop leadership skills and learn to most effectively communicate your ideas; let your undergraduate research be a catalyst for your academic career. Experiences. Achievements. A Career Path: Sierra Hansen “Getting a UCARE position through the university helped me to get the Beckman Scholarship, which helped me get into the German program, which collectively helped me to get into multiple M.D.- Ph.D. programs—which is where I’m headed next. I just signed my acceptance to start an M.D.-Ph.D. program after I do a gap year studying at the German lab I worked in.” Read More about Sierra Hansen on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln UNL on Exposure For the third year, Husker undergraduates discussed their research and creative activity face-to-face with state senators. The April 16 poster presentations featured 47 students presenting their work on 38 research projects with direct impacts on Nebraska. Following the event, students moved their research posters to a display area in the Nebraska State Capitol. Read More on Exposure Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today Kayla Vondracek’s journey to a Nebraska U degree—which included wading into rivers for research, clinching journalism awards and producing her own app—was an experience unlike any other. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today Kinga Aletto recently combined her interest in art and passion for wildlife in her UCARE project on the Javan blue-banded kingfisher. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today This summer, through Nebraska's Undergraduate Creative Activities and Research Experience program, students traveled to England to work with Oxford's Archive of Performances of Greek and Roman Drama. There, they chronicled and compiled the history of the play, which will eventually be published in an online book. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Don’t Wait to Apply the Skills You Learn in Class At Nebraska, you won't have to wait until graduation to apply the skills you learn in class. Through internships and co-ops, you can take what you've learned and start making advances toward your chosen career path. Not only will internships help you stretch your strengths through real-world experience, but they will also help your application stand out when applying to your first job or a graduate program. Learn by Doing: Tayler Sundermann “Career services is fantastic about taking care of you—they want you in industry, getting hands-on experience as much as possible. I learned a ton about what I wanted to do, and not do, in a career. Now, I want to get an advanced degree and do research. I decided, ‘This is the job I want. What do I need to do to get there?’” Read More about the Tayler Sundermann on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today Senior journalism and broadcasting major Jennifer Yuma has always known she’d be a writer. After taking a few journalism courses at in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications her freshman year, her dream to become an entertainment writer at a lifestyle magazine solidified. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Nebraska Honors @unlhonors This summer, Emma Farson, a biological sciences and psychology double major in her 3rd year at UNL, is earning Honors credit for a research experience in the UNMC College of Dentistry. Read More on Nebraska Honors' full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Nebraska Honors @unlhonors Meet Lauren Penington (@laurenpenington), a 2nd year journalism and political science major! "This summer, I am earning Honors credit for my marketing and promotions internship at Elitch Gardens Amusement Park in Denver, Colorado..." Read More on Nebraska Honors' full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Carson Center for EMA @carsoncenterunl Congrats to EMA student @payton.bergkamp on the amazing on-set internship she just wrapped up with @syntheticcinema! Read More on Carson Center for EMA's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Get Support, 1-to-1, From Your Advisors You’re going to college not just to expand your mind, but to lay the groundwork for a great career or graduate school. Nebraska has people who will work 1-to-1 with you to help you get the most out of your experience. You’ll do more than just learn technical skills—you’ll grow more flexible and nimble, ready to change the world and adapt with it. Check out the interview below with Kadina Koonce, Exploratory and Pre-Professional Academic Advisor, who works with students to make the most of their time in college as they prepare for a career or grad school. What does an academic advisor do? Academic advisors provide students with guidance and support in identifying their life/career goals. We assist not only with course selection, study skills and campus resources/policies, but also hope to serve as a sounding board, and cheerleader. How do you see your role in helping students achieve success in college? In my role, I encourage students to make and accomplish goals within and beyond their comfort zone, support them through the victories and learning experiences, provide them with information about opportunities, and push them to be self-advocates. How do students work with each other? Through clubs and organizations, our students work with one another to build a community. They work toward the common goal of building personal/professional skills to be competitive for professional school, give back to the community, and have fun. What kinds of experiences do you offer for students outside the classroom? We offer workshops, help students find shadowing opportunities, take a trip to University of Nebraska Medical Center every spring, provide mock interviews and schedule meetings with professional school reps. A little something for everyone! What academic resources do you recommend to students? Academic resources I recommend most to students include going to Success Coaching with the Center for Academic Success and Transition (CAST). They have resources around tutoring, study skills, time management, note-taking, test prep and motivation! How do you help prepare students for a career after college? We help prepare students for a career by assisting them with essays and finding experiences to make them competitive applicants. We encourage students to job shadow, do informational interviews and go to career advising. What advice do you give to help students get the most out of their academic experience? Never be afraid to reach out for help and connect with at least two faculty/staff people on campus. That support/relationship building is so important, especially when feeling lost or unmotivated, it's powerful to know you have someone on your side! University of Nebraska Lincoln CoJMC News PRSSA’s advisor, Jemalyn Griffin, has worked with the chapter for less than three years and has accomplished major strides for the group including supporting a record number of six students to attend PRSSA’s annual International Conference and helping implement the chapter’s inaugural Vice President of Diversity and Inclusion position. Read More on CoJMC News Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today “There’s simply nothing better than working with students — particularly those who struggle a little bit, those who fall down but get back up and keep working — and watching them walk across that stage in Pinnacle Bank Arena to get their degree.” Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today The East Union was a hub of activity Feb. 28, as nearly 250 student services professionals from Nebraska and Kansas gather for the fifth annual Academic Advising Association conference. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Dept. of Comm Studies @unlcommdept Do you have questions about your schedule? Are you ready to declare Communication Studies as your major or minor? Talk to our amazing Communication Studies academic advisor: Sarah Feit! Sarah can answer your questions, walk you through course registration, and help you with any advising needs. Read More on UNL Dept. of Comm Studies' Instagram post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Live and Learn with Your Peers Learning Communities (LC) are groups of students with a shared major or interest area who live together in the same residence hall and are mentored by an upper class student. Joining an LC gives you an instant community of people who have the same goals and interests, and a mentor to help you navigate your transition to college. Together, you and your LC peers will motivate each other to excel academically, gain new perspectives, reach your full-potential and co-create the future. Find Your Academic Community: Will Dindinger “Being in an LC was good for me socially, but my friends and I also took our academics seriously, and we all pushed each other to be better. Our goals and aspirations were really diverse—some people wanted to work in a huge firm, then one of my other friends wanted to do more small scale, residential stuff... Everyone had their own way of viewing things and their own tastes, so being able to work together and get honest feedback from such a diverse group of people was a great thing to have.” Read More about the Will Dindinger on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram The Department of Psychology @unlpsych This weekend the Psyched Up! Psychology Learning Community participated in the Big Trip to Chicago! Along with taking in some sightseeing, they visited employers in the Psychology field to explore future career options. Read More on UNL Psychology's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today Through a partnership with Rotary International District 5610 out of southern South Dakota, staff from Nebraska Innovation Studio and students from the College of Engineering learning community, Engineering to Change the World, made 30 individual toolboxes for Native American artists who are utilizing the new and developing Whiteclay Makerspace. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram The School of Computing @unlcomputing Our Learning Community students are spending this weekend in Chicago visiting Google and Scientific Games! #LCBigTrip Read More on The School of Computing's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Nebraska Learning Communities @unllearncom "You get to make connections that I wouldn't be able to make by myself"- Media Smarts LC Peers spent their time freshman year living together, learning together, and connecting through experiences like the ones pictured here! Read More on Nebraska Learning Communities' full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Find Your Academic Community With 500+ Registered Student Organizations, you are bound to find a club catered toward your major or interests, where you can stretch your strengths through academic collaboration with your peers and professors. Explore examples of clubs connected to colleges across campus, or tap the link below to search a list of all clubs and organizations. See All Registered Student Organizations Instagram UNL Aerospace Club @unl.aerospace.club Design Build Fly had an awesome flight over the weekend! All passengers survived and the plane performed nominally! Read More on UNL Aerospace Club's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Insect Science Club @unl_insect_science_club Thank you @diventures for hosting the UNL Insect Science club today! We had a blast getting to talk about different aquatic insects today! Read More on UNL Insect Science Club's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Mock Trial @unlmocktrialteam This Halloween, we are being Attorneys and Witnesses at our first tournament for the year! #gbr #happyhalloween #unlmocktrial Read More on UNL Mock Trial's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Philosophy Club @unlphilosophyclub UNL philosophy club today discussing time and dimensions Read More on UNL Philosophy Club's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Coffee Club College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Get together with other College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources students, faculty and alumni outside of a classroom setting. Meet students on a similar career path and network with industry pros to build connections that lead to internships and job shadow opportunities. Read More about Coffee Club Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Tau Sigma Delta College of Architecture Join the only national honor society for architecture and design majors to meet other highly-motivated architecture students and celebrate achievement and scholarship. Read More about Tau Sigma Delta Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Model United Nations College of Arts and Sciences Explore pressing global issues and possible solutions, refine your public speaking skills and travel to national and international conferences to compete with other Model UN chapters. Read More about Model United Nations Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark International Business Club College of Business Work with peers and business professionals around Lincoln to broaden your cultural horizons. Through International Business Club, you can discover new ways to apply your international business curriculum like internships, study abroad opportunities, student diplomat programs and job shadowing programs. Read More about International Business Club Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Pre-Occupational Therapy Club College of Education and Human Sciences Meet other students on a Pre-Occupational Therapy path and network with OTs from the Lincoln/Omaha community, attend hospital mini-career fairs/program open houses, find job shadowing opportunities and get application process tips for graduate programs. Read More about Pre-Occupational Therapy Club Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Mechanical Engineering Mentorship Program College of Engineering Through an upperclassman student mentor, you will have access to school-related advice, resume and career fair tips, plant and facility tours, research opportunities, and company contacts that can be leveraged into internships and full time jobs post-graduation. Read More about Mechanical Engineering Mentorship Program Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Fine Art Photo Club Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts Connect with other students and photo faculty to engage in critiques, attend conferences around the country, put on group exhibitions and even grow your skills through learning opportunities both near and abroad. Read More about Fine Art Photo Club Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Jacht College of Journalism and Mass Communications Get course credit working with real companies around Nebraska to gain experience in many aspects of marketing communications, from account services to creative work. Unlike most classes, you must apply and be selected to be a part of this course. Read More about Jacht Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Contact Us Address Map Pin Office of Admissions 1410 Q Street Lincoln, NE 68588-0417 US Office Hours Clock 8:00AM–5:00PM M–F Phone Phone 402-472-2023 Fax Fax Machine 402-472-0670 Email Envelope admissions@unl.edu Related Links Transfer Student Military Student Diversity Student First Generation Student International Student School Counselors Student Jobs Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.