Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Jack Heaphy Class of 2024 back Click to Close Bio Hi! My name is Jack and I am a Sophomore at Dartmouth. I currently plan to major in sociology modified with anthropology, all with a human-centered design minor. Outside of class, I enjoy performing and I'm currently involved in both a student dance group and acapella. I love hiking and running outdoors and have already explored a lot of Dartmouth's surrounding trails. I am also involved in Greek Life, the Student and Presidential Committee for Sexual Assault, and the Inter Fraternity Council. Academic Program Sociology, Anthropology, Human-Centered Design Favorite Thing Right Now New Irving Building! Hometown Charlottesville, Virginia Pronouns he/him/his About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Taking my Professor to Lunch! back Click to Close Jack's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallOn Campus Favorite Class: SOCY 20: Sex, Death, and Migration This class was an overview on demographic trends across the world, and it's the course that got me interested in my current academic focus! I enjoyed the fact that this class was discussion based, so I was able to engage in conversations about different social factors and relationships that affect population changes in global societies. WinterBoston, MA Favorite Class: THEA 30: Acting 1 I never thought I'd enjoy doing theater online but this class fully exceeded all expectations I had in mind. I was able to learn new techniques and was forced to think about aspects of performance that I never had to worry about when on stage. The technological stage was definitely an interesting hurdle, but it strengthened my abilities as a performer overall. SpringOn Campus Favorite Class: ENVS 28: Global Environmental Health Beside it being my first in-person class at Dartmouth, I have enjoyed the case-based structure of this course. Professor Roebuck delivers the content in small units of environmental health problems, which are all applicable to specific cases and situations. This makes the material extremely interesting and thought-provoking, leading to an incredible class. SummerNew York, NY I spent my summer interning for a theater education company that offered technical skill sessions to teenagers, all taught by industry professionals. I learned a lot more about the ins and outs of the theater industry, due to the immersive setting of the position. Sophomore Year Click to Open FallOn Campus Favorite Class: EARS 14: Meteorology I originally took this class to fulfill my lab distributive requirement, but it ended up proving to be a super interesting course! I have always been fascinated by storms and weather, so learning the processes behind these phenomena and patterns was deeply interesting for me. While I am not planning on studying Earth sciences any further, this specific course was memorable for all the good reasons! WinterOn Campus Favorite Class: SOCY 16: Constructing Social Theory This class was a constant reminder of my love for sociology. Professor Kim was a genuine, kind, excellent professor and lecturer, and all of the material was deeply interesting. Some past classes that are reading-heavy have fallen short in finding invigorating readings that I was actively excited to explore, and I enjoyed every single article and discussion for this course. Exploring contemporary theorists' works, this class was a 10/10. « All Posts by this Blogger Taking my Professor to Lunch! Hello everyone, hope you are all doing well. I'm feeling swell after a great Green Key weekend with friends, sitting on a couch in The Cube, one of our student study spaces and resting my legs after a multitude of concerts and fun events. Besides our annual spring weekend celebration-of-music tradition, another highlight of the past week has been a lunch that I went on with my computer science professor. Through Dartmouth's Take A Professor to Lunch program, I was able to enjoy a free meal at a delicious Hanover restaurant while getting to know a prominent figure in my academic life outside the context of a classroom. The program allows for each student to have one free meal a term and is extremely simple. After scheduling a time with the professor of choice, students can get a voucher for the free meal from the Undergraduate Dean's Office. The hardest part of this process for me was having to actually choose which professor to ask for a meal with; I had multiple I was choosing between. I really have liked both my computer science and sociology professors from this term, and I have a long list of all the faculty members that I wanted to talk to during my freshman year, when this program wasn't in operation because of COVID. I ultimately chose my computer science professor, because I felt like her career path was similar to new developing hopes that I have for my own life. After making this decision, I reached out, and the plans were set. The meal itself was immensely more inspiring and engaging than I expected. We sat outside in perfect weather, enjoying the delicious food and getting to know each other on a personal level. I got to hear all about her education, the multitude of positions she's held throughout her career, her entire motivation for teaching at Dartmouth. It was such a unique experience, seeing her in a completely different context. I felt like I was chatting with an acquaintance, catching up about each other's lives. I told her about Charlottesville, my hometown, my interests, hopes, even aspirations. Yet, the most exciting part of the conversation was a discovery that our personal philosophies were much more aligned than expected. I learned that we have similar priorities, motivations, even outlooks on life. This conversation created a newfound bond between the two of us, one that I hope will last for a long time. After the meal, class with this professor felt different. I felt naturally more comfortable and engaged, which was another unexpected outcome. Overall, this experience was incredibly fulfilling and yet another reminder about how the faculty here are so special. Never would I have ever thought that a random professor would care enough about a random student to sit down for an hour and a half and hear about his life, let alone make connections to her own. It's such a supportive feeling, and will definitely be a meal that I will remember for years to come. Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/29/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts professor academics relationships Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Posts You Might Like Visit the Blog A Letter to Freshman Year With freshman year coming to a close, I wrote a Thank You note to one of the best years! Read More Caroline York 2025 Goodbye, 22S Happy last week of classes! Here are some of my reflections from my junior spring. Read More Love Tsai 2023 Greenkey: dancing in a field to internationally famous mucisians in Hanover! Dartmouth has too many traditions to name, but Greenkey is one of the best ones! Read on to find out about my experience this year! Read More Luke Grayson 2025 Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Freshman Year: A Retrospective A look back at my first year at Dartmouth! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 Work Hard, Play Hard: A Green Key Weekend at Dartmouth! After two years, Dartmouth's annual spring festival, known affectionately as Green Key, occurred this weekend! The weekend held many events, but even so, I saw the Dartmouth culture of work hard, play hard. Read More Tulio Huggins 2023 Alumni Interview I sat down with my friend, Ali '20, who conducts interviews, to gain some insight into what students should expect for the interviews. Read More Caroline York 2025 Saint Motel Meets Hanover: Green Key 2022! As the 23s, 24s, and 25s shared our first Green Key together, Dartmouth ended up bringing my middle-school self's favorite band to campus: here's how my Green Key went! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Green Key!!!!!! It's a Dartmouth tradition to celebrate Green Key every spring. What exactly is Green Key you ask? In short, it is one of the best weekends ever. Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback