Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Application Checklist for Transfer Applicants The transfer application deadline is March 1 (11:59 p.m. applicant's local time). Breadcrumb Home Transfer Applicants Sub Navigation In This Section Eligibility Testing Requirements Transfer Credit Financial Aid Application Checklist Transfer Calendar What Makes a Good Transfer Applicant? Application Checklist for Transfer Applicants The transfer application deadline is March 1 (11:59 p.m. applicant's local time). Application Checklist Application fee of $75 or a fee waiver. Common Application (Transfer Application). Official copy of your high school transcript. Official copy of your current college transcript – including grades from your fall 2021 semester work and a list of your current course enrollments. (If you are not currently enrolled in college, we request an official copy of your most recent transcript.) The Common Application provides the ability for you to upload your college transcript, which Brown will consider unofficial. You may submit your official transcript one of two ways: Send a request to your Registrar through the Common Application or have your Registrar submit your transcript directly to our office. College Report (Report of Good Standing) Please ask the appropriate college administrator to complete the College Report. The administrator may either complete it through the Common Application or print it and scan and email the completed document to transferapp@brown.edu. Two instructor evaluations from faculty who have taught you at your current college. (We will accept evaluations from TAs who have been your instructors.) These letters must be submitted through the Common Application or sent via email to transferapp@brown.edu or by fax to 401-863-9300. Material sent by email or fax should include the applicant's name, date of birth and high school. Letters sent by email should be sent as PDF attachments. If there are not two faculty members or TAs from whom you are able to request an evaluation, you may replace one of the required letters with a recommendation from a teacher from your senior year of high school. Mid Term Report, also found on the Common Application. You should list your current courses and then ask each of your professors to provide a progress grade. Please upload the completed Mid Term Report through your Brown Applicant Portal by April 1. Brown is test optional for transfer applicants through the 2022-2023 admission cycle, meaning that test scores are not a required component of the transfer application this year. If you would like to include test scores for review in your application, testing must be completed by February to ensure receipt of scores. You may use your Brown Applicant Portal to self-report test scores that were not included on your Common Application. More information on our standardized testing policies can be found on our website. Financial Aid Applicants must submit the appropriate financial aid documents when they apply. For more information visit the Office of Financial Aid. Supplementary Materials If you are accomplished in music, you may include additional supplements with your application in the Common Application, through SlideRoom. You do not need to wait for access to your Brown Applicant Portal to upload music to SlideRoom. Please note: SlideRoom only accepts one submission per email account; if submitting two you will need to sign up with a second email account. Fee Waiver We understand that the cost of applying to college can be prohibitive for some applicants and their families. If the application fee constitutes a financial hardship, we will accept a fee waiver in lieu of the application fee itself. The College Board provides fee waivers to students who take the SAT, and these fee waivers are accepted by our office. We will also accept a fee waiver in the form of a letter (printed on college letterhead) from a dean, advisor or financial aid officer at your home institution certifying that the application fee constitutes a financial hardship. Video Introduction/Interview There are no interviews available for transfer applicants. The video introduction provides a wonderful opportunity for us to learn more about you. After you have submitted the Common Application you will receive access to your Brown Applicant Portal. Once logged into your Brown Applicant Portal you will be given the option to submit a 2-minute personal video introduction. The deadline to submit a video introduction is March 15. The video introduction gives you an opportunity to tell us more about yourself, in your voice, beyond the information you provided in your application. Sharing a two-minute personal video is a helpful way to show us who you are. Possible topics may include your academic interests, your connection to a family member or individual who has influenced you, your experience with the community that you are from or anything else that you would like to tell us about yourself. Your video should begin with a short clip of you in front of the camera saying, "Hi, my name is [insert name] from [name of college]." After that, what you choose to say and how you choose to say it is up to you. Simple and unrehearsed is fine, and you are welcome to be creative. We recommend you dress casually as you would for a school day or school event. Videos will not be evaluated for production quality, but you must limit your video to no more than two minutes. Record your video introduction using the device of your choice, and then upload either a file or link to the introduction into your Brown Account Portal. We anticipate that many applicants will use phones and tablets to submit videos. Record your video in landscape orientation; that way your finished product will not require viewers to turn their heads to the side when viewing on a desktop computer. Make certain you are visible and audible during your video. Check the lighting and listen to your video after you have recorded it to ensure you are happy with the final product before submitting. Once you have uploaded your video to your applicant portal be sure to click PREVIEW to view your submitted video to ensure it appears correctly before hitting CONTINUE. Important Notes on Submitting Documents Applicants should submit the majority of their application using the Common Application website. All official documents, including high school and college transcripts, the College Report, testing results and Instructor Evaluations, must be submitted to the Office of College Admission by the institutions or parties that created those documents with the exception of the Mid Term Report which can be uploaded through your Brown Applicant Portal and your official college transcript which your Registrar may submit one of two ways: Send a request to your Registrar through the Common Application or have your Registrar submit your transcript directly to our office. Official documents can be submitted by email to transferapp@brown.edu or by fax to 401-863-9300. We cannot accept official documents that have been faxed or emailed to our office by applicants themselves with one exception: the Mid Term Report can be uploaded through your Brown Applicant Portal by April 1. By mid-March, the Office of Admission will send transfer applicants a username and password that they can use to check the completeness of their application online. It is likely that any document received by our office will not be entered into our application database until a week after it has been received. If you have recently submitted a document, please understand that it may take a week or more before it is listed on your application account as having been received. In early April we will email you to let you know if any required documents are missing from your application file. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Application Checklist for Transfer Applicants Open details for Application Checklist for Transfer Applicants Bookmark this Page