Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Gap Year Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually Dartmouth welcomes requests from students who wish to take a gap year or a service year before enrolling. More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Thinking of taking a gap or service year between high school and college? If you've been accepted to Dartmouth, this step-by-step guide (below) explains how to make it happen. Curious about what you might do during a gap year? You can travel, work, take courses you weren't able to take in high school, engage in community service, and/or pursue other interests. The options are wide open. Considering community service? A service year can be beneficial for the students that participate and can provide numerous benefits to the communities they serve. Dartmouth believes that getting more individuals involved in service programs will have a positive effect on the civic health of our society, and is committed to helping students who plan to enroll at the College learn about service year opportunities. If you are interested in any of the organizations below please apply as directed. Campus Compact for New Hampshire Citizen Schools City Year Food Corps Global Citizen Year New Hampshire AmeriCorps Public Allies Service Year Alliance How to request a gap/service year Confirm your intent to enroll at Dartmouth by the May 3 reply deadline. Email the Assistant to the Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid by June 1. Your email should outline your reasons for postponing your enrollment and plans for your gap/service year. The Director of Admissions will review your request. We will do our best to respond to requests by June 15. If we need further information, we will contact you via email. Go gap. Serve your world. Take a job or internship; pursue a dream; help the world be a better place; help your family or others in need. It's your gap/service year. Make the most of it. Re-apply for financial aid. While on your gap/service year, update us by emailing the Assistant to the Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid as soon as possible after January 1 to tell us about your experiences and undertakings during your gap/service year, and to reaffirm your commitment to join Dartmouth's newest matriculating class. Gap/service year facts and fine print Gap year requests will be considered from students admitted in December and March. Students admitted from the wait list and transfer students are not eligible to take a gap year. Approval of gap year requests is at the discretion of the Admissions Committee. Admitted students who postpone their enrollment may not apply to any other colleges or universities during their gap year. Postponed enrollment for two years will be permitted for obligatory national/military service. The Admissions Committee reserves the right to review the status of any admitted student, including those on a gap/service year, and to rescind its offer of admission if a student's academic or personal record does not remain satisfactory in all respects. The American Gap Association defines a gap year as: "A structured period of time when students take a break from formal education to increase self-awareness, learn from different cultures, and experiment with possible careers. Typically these are achieved by a combination of traveling, volunteering, interning, or working." Visit the American Gap Association website for inspiration and advice on how to spend your gap year. Any policy changes at the College will apply to you as a member of your matriculating class. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback