Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Undergraduate Office of Admissions Menu Search Log In Why Nebraska Majors Career Connections Social Connections Academic Life Visit Nebraska Visit Lincoln Apply Admissions Requirements Enrollment Deposit Cost & Aid Scholarship Statement Nebraska Promise Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes Contact Us Information for… First Generation Students High Ability Students International Students LGBTQA+ Students Native American Students Nebraska Now School Counselors Students with Disabilities Transfer Students Undergraduate Online Programs Underrepresented Minorities Veteran and Active Military Students Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Admissions Why Nebraska Career Connections Career Connections Your browser does not support the video tag. The experiences you Have at Nebraska will build a foundation for your entire career. Double arrow pointing down Prepare for Your Career: Learn by Doing At Nebraska, you won't have to wait to get your hands dirty with experience in your career field. From day one, you'll have the chance work with professors and other students to engage in unique hands-on learning opportunities—like internships, work study and pre-professional clubs—so you'll have relevant experience before you graduate. Lay a Solid Foundation for Your Career: Sydney Trench Sydney Trench found the courage to pursue her passion for teaching and is building a solid foundation for her career through hands-on opportunities. Read More about Sydney Trench on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL CoJMC @unlcojmc Sophomore ADPR and journalism major Katie Lockyear (pictured left) is in this semester's Experience Lab program in the mission-driven @buoystudentagency Read More on CoLMS's full post at Instagram Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln UNL on Exposure @unl_insect_science_club There was a murder in the basement of Filley Hall — or at least, the staging of a homicide crime scene. Students in UNL's forensic science capstone class spent the better part of spring semester meticulously processing the scene, examining evidence, conducting laboratory tests and testifying in mock court. The course is a culmination of everything they've learned in the major. Read More on UNL Exposure Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Architecture @unlarchitecture ARCH 210 students are exploring the concepts of positive and negative space for their first project of the semester. They began by transforming a series of profile drawings into three-dimensional forms. Then, those resulting forms were cast in plaster or Rockite to create volumetric negative spaces. Read More on UNL Architecture's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln UNL on Exposure Huskers enrolled in English 379 are rolling through a series of hands-on experiences this semester. The course is an exploration of the history of reading technologies (from antiquity to the digital age) and how they transformed the world. Students were able to get hands-on with tabletop presses, allowing them to experience the letterpress printing process developed by Johannes Gutenberg. Read More on UNL Exposure Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Develop Critical Career Skills Nebraska will support you every step of the way on the path to your dream job. With the guidance of caring professors, you'll grow and develop skills like leadership and effective communication that will set you up for success after graduation. You'll have the opportunity to work 1-to-1 with a Career Services Advisor to find the right internships so you can kickstart your path to a career you'll love. Chasing Career Dreams: Ra'Daniel Arvie For Ra'Daniel Arvie, getting involved helped him gain career-based skills while building a community around campus. Read More about Ra'Daniel Arvie on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram University of Nebraska CASNR @unl_casnr @unlagecon, @unl_anisci, and Mechanized Systems Management met with students in the ag education classroom to share how they can build on their skills gained in FFA and apply them to agricultural careers through CASNR. Read More on University of Nebraska CASNR's full post at Instagram Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark YouTube University of Nebraska–Lincoln Doug Glaser is executive vice president at Kiewit and a 1991 graduate of the University of Nebraska–Lincoln College of Engineering. He says Kiewit employs more than 600 University of Nebraska graduates. Watch Now on YouTube Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Center for Entrepreneurship @nebraskac4e The C4E Summer Impact Team hard at it hearing from Chef John Reed about how the leadership at Tasty Catering allowed him the freedom to start his own business as an employee-entrepreneur. Read More on Center for Entrepreneurship's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL MASA @unl_m.a.s.a Members attended the Adelante Latino Student Summit at UMKC. During this time, they got to hear from influential leaders and attended various workshops aimed at educating on issues and topics directly affecting the Latinx community. Read More on UNL M.A.S.A.'s full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Don't Wait to Start on Your Career Path At Nebraska, you can work alongside faculty and peers to launch businesses, manage nonprofits or make research discoveries that have never existed before—all before you graduate. From the moment you get to campus, you'll meet friendly people who will challenge you to challenge everything. Relevant Experiences, Career Connections: Erika Swenson Throughout her time at Nebraska, Erika has had the opportunity to take advantage of unique experiences through her major. She knows that this exploration won't stop after she graduates. Read More about Erika Swenson on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today Nebraska's Engler Agribusiness Entrepreneurship Program has allowed student Shelby Kittle to expand her business, Shel-Bee's Honey and Products. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Nebraska College of Business @nebraskabiz A panel of three students, Business Career Center staff and college faculty spoke to employers at the annual Employer Partners Day in Hawks Hall about best practices and how best to connect with current business students and recent graduates. Read More on Nebraska College of Business' Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today Q&A with Lydia Storm, a forensic science and biochemistry double major from Lawrence, Kansas. Storm—the winner of a College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources' Change Maker scholarship—is working to encourage elementary school-aged girls to pursue studies and experiences in STEM fields. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln School of Biological Sciences At Nebraska, we've said students can make waves where there is no ocean. Recent College of Arts and Sciences graduate Baylie Fadool, who majored in biological sciences, experienced this by chasing her dream of studying marine biology. Read More about School of Biological Sciences Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Get Hands-On with Internships Internships are important experiences to have in college because you learn by getting a taste of a potential career. They can also help you decide if you're on the right path to get there. Nebraska's Office of Career Services is here to support you and your career goals from day one, offering advice and connecting you to opportunities to grow your skills by immersing yourself in your field. Learn the Job by Doing it: Ethan Bütt As a software engineering major, Wisconsin-native Ethan Bütt has never had a summer off because he always has an internship or research program lined up. Read More about Ethan Bütt on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today Senior journalism and broadcasting major Jennifer Yuma has always known she'd be a writer. After taking a few journalism courses at in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications her freshman year, her dream to become an entertainment writer at a lifestyle magazine solidified. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Nebraska Honors @unlhonors This summer, Emma Farson, a biological sciences and psychology double major in her 3rd year at UNL, is earning Honors credit for a research experience in the UNMC College of Dentistry. Read More on Nebraska Honors' full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Nebraska Honors @unlhonors Meet Lauren Penington (@laurenpenington), a 2nd year journalism and political science major! "This summer, I am earning Honors credit for my marketing and promotions internship at Elitch Gardens Amusement Park in Denver, Colorado..." Read More on Nebraska Honors' full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Carson Center for EMA @carsoncenterunl Congrats to EMA student @payton.bergkamp on the amazing on-set internship she just wrapped up with @syntheticcinema! Read More on Carson Center for EMA's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Gain New Skills and Earn Money With Work-Study Work-study jobs are paid on-campus positions for students offered based on financial need. You can find work-study jobs in almost every area of campus, from Campus Recreation, to Housing and more. Learn a new skill and earn money toward your tuition while working conveniently on campus through a work-study job. Gain Life Skills, Earn Money: Samantha Wolff Secondary broad science education major Samantha Wolff never thought working with students was something she would enjoy. Almost three years later, see how she's earning money while helping elementary students with their homework. Read More about the Samantha Wolff on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today Students are hired to work as tutors in local elementary classrooms and after-school programs within the Lincoln Public Schools system. Tutors partner directly with LPS classroom educators to help improve reading levels and math performance, among other supports. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Twitter UNL Career Services @UNLCareers Handshake is the place for students of the University of Nebraska-Lincoln to engage with employers and search/apply for internships, co-ops, part/full time jobs, work study, and campus employment.⁠ Read More on UNL Career Services' full Twitter Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today Currently in its first year, the Dining Student Leadership Program is a pilot program actively recruiting up to 35 first-year students who qualify for federal work-study. Participants will not only gain valuable experience for other fields and professions, but will provide an essential service to the campus community. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark YouTube UNL Career Services Youtube Channel HuskerWork is an on-campus employment program that aims to increase student retention and promote career readiness and skill development for student employees through the delivery of a curated career and professional development curriculum. Watch the Video Now Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ 1-to-1 Career Services Support The Office of Career Services is a great resource for building your future, even if you're not sure what you want to do yet. Career Advisors can help you at every stage of your job search, from building your resume, to polishing your interview skills—and that's just the beginning. From a conversation with Director of University Career Services, Tracy Lungrin: Hey Tracy! Can you tell us what you do at Nebraska? My role is to oversee a team that coordinates career advising and development, internships, and employer connections throughout the campus career network. So what happens when a student walks into your office? We work with students at all levels of their career development. We help students answer three big questions: "Who am I?" "Who do I want to be?" and "How do I get there?" Honest question: how does knowing "who am I?" help you prepare for a career? Helping students understand their interests, skills, values, strengths and environment preferences is critical to helping them become more self-aware. Knowing yourself can help you find a major and career that matches your individual preferences. Students come in with lots of ideas (some from themselves, others from family) and we offer support and guidance to test those ideas to see if they're a match for the student's future. That seems really personalized. Do you work 1-to-1 with students to figure that out? We do. We have career advisors in almost every college, and we have a great team at the Explore Center who helps students who are undecided explore their options. How do you work with students to test their ideas about their preferences and potential career path? Beyond coursework, job shadowing, interviewing professionals in the field or joining a career- or major-related club are great ways to learn. Ultimately, volunteering, getting a part-time job (in a relevant area), or an internship (with hands-on experience) are often the best ways a student can test possible career paths. How do you help students put themselves out there? We help generate ideas of how they can explore—maybe it's starting with classes and a club. Then, if they like that but they're still unsure, they can work up to a reaching out to someone for a job shadow. As students gain more confidence, they can stretch themselves to applying for jobs and internships that connect to their chosen career interests. It's definitely a process. What if a student realizes that what they're doing is not for them? Is that normal? It's VERY normal. It might feel like a real setback, but learning what you don't like only propels you forward. You learn so much about yourself when something doesn't work out. It helps you pivot with new insight and awareness. The idea is that you can take these experiences—good and bad—and then use them to inform your next step, right? Precisely: Experiment / Learn / Fail / Repeat It's a process to find out who you are and what you want—how you get there looks different for every individual. How can students get started with this process now? Put your career interests to test as soon as you can. If you have strong interests in one or more fields, try out job shadowing or go on college visits and ask about majors and careers. Don't just do a lot of research online, go talk to people in the field. That's how you really learn! Instagram UNL Career Services @unlcareers "Being first generation meant I needed a little more guidance, and career services definitely made navigating professional life easier." -Mo Read More on UNL Career Services's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Career Services @unlcareers Looking for a job or internship? Start here!⁠ University Career Services would like to present to you your very own Job Search Guide. It's as simple as it sounds. Read More on UNL Career Services's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Career Services @unlcareers For this weeks' #FeatureFriday, meet one of our Peer Career Guides Nidhi P! As a Peer Career Guide, Nidhi meets with students both virtually and in-person to help students with their resumes, cover letters, and connecting with employers. Read More on UNL Career Services's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Career Services @unlcareers A Handshake account is the best way to look for jobs and internships as a college student. If you haven't already activated your UNL Handshake account, go to unl.joinhandshake.com to activate your account and start finding amazing career opportunities today!⁠ Read More on UNL Career Services's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Connect Clubs to Career With more than 500 Registered Student Organizations to choose from, you are bound to find a support group of other students with similar goals and gain experience toward your career, no matter your academic discipline or dream job. Explore examples of clubs catered to academic programs, or tap the link below to search a list of all clubs and organizations. See All Registered Student Organizations Instagram UNL Aerospace Club @unl.aerospace.club Design Build Fly had an awesome flight over the weekend! All passengers survived and the plane performed nominally! Read More on UNL Aerospace Club's full post at Instagram Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Insect Science Club @unl_insect_science_club Thank you @diventures for hosting the UNL Insect Science club today! We had a blast getting to talk about different aquatic insects today! Read More on UNL Insect Science Club's Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Mock Trial @unlmocktrialteam This Halloween, we are being Attorneys and Witnesses at our first tournament for the year! #gbr #happyhalloween #unlmocktrial Read More on UNL Mock Trial's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Philosophy Club @unlphilosophyclub UNL philosophy club today discussing time and dimensions Read More on UNL Philosophy Club's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Engler Agribusiness College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Transform the resources of our strength in agriculture into the next big idea—your idea that will solve a problem, fill a hungry stomach, create a new product, or grow more food with fewer resources. Read More about Engler Agribusiness Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Fabrication and Construction Team (FACT) College of Architecture Get real experience designing buildings and working with nonprofits though FACT, the student design/build program at Nebraska. Read More about the Fabrication And Construction Team Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Model United Nations College of Arts and Sciences Explore pressing global issues and possible solutions, refine your public speaking skills and travel to national and international conferences to compete with other Model UN chapters. Read More about Model UN Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Alpha Kappa Psi College of Business Further develop your professional skills, like networking and job interview etiquette, while engaging with business leaders from both near and afar by joining the oldest and largest business fraternity. Read More about Alpha Kappa Psi Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Student International Advisory Committee College of Education and Human Sciences Work with other students to increase the awareness of multicultural engagement in CEHS through representation of global voices in the college's administration planning. Read More about Student International Advisory Committee Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Theme Park Design Group College of Engineering Meet other individuals with a passion for engineering and design, and collaborate on real-world projects, while gaining a better understanding of attraction design through behind-the-scenes tours at theme parks across the country. Read More about Theme Park Design Group Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Theatrix Theatre Company Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts Work hands-on with professors and professionals working within the Johnny Carson School of Theatre and Film through this student-run production company. Read More about Theatrix Theatre Company Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Jacht College of Journalism and Mass Communications Get course credit working with real companies around Nebraska to gain experience in many aspects of marketing communications, from account services to creative work. Unlike most classes you must apply and be selected to be a part of this course. Read More about Jacht Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Contact Us Address Map Pin Office of Admissions 1410 Q Street Lincoln, NE 68588-0417 US Office Hours Clock 8:00AM–5:00PM M–F Phone Phone 402-472-2023 Fax Fax Machine 402-472-0670 Email Envelope admissions@unl.edu Related Links Transfer Student Military Student Diversity Student First Generation Student International Student School Counselors Student Jobs Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.