Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Scholars Who Teach Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Scholars Who Teach What does it mean to learn from scholars who teach? It means that your professors are continually pushing the boundaries of the known, combining their thought-leading expertise with their passion for teaching, mentoring, and collaborating. It means that your classroom experience is seamlessly integrated with breakthroughs in the lab and discoveries in the field. On any given day at Dartmouth, you could be working with Rashauna Johnson, an historian who is revealing how the systematic exploitation of enslaved people and their labor was foundational to the creation and growth of New Orleans Ryan Halter, a biomedical engineer who has created an early warning system to help doctors treat traumatic brain injuries and prevent permanent damage Jodie Mack, an award-winning experimental animator working to unleash the kinetic energy of overlooked and wasted objects and questioning the role of decoration in daily life Xia Zhou, a computer scientist whose research explores the potential of light as a both a sensing medium and data delivery mechanism in the miniaturized and ubiquitous mobile computing of the future Thalia Wheatley, a psychologist uncovering the basis of human social intelligence and exploring questions such as why dolls are creepy and how we think about friendship Michael Herron, a social scientist whose most recent research examined the profound and unjust effects that long voting lines can have on both elections and specific constituencies those elections ostensibly include Explore the full community of scholars who teach at Dartmouth. Dartmouth In Video Play Button Charles Wheelan '88 Foretold of Pandemic in His First Novel Senior lecturer at Rocky published "The Rationing" in 2019 as a "public policy thriller." BACK Charles Wheelan '88 Foretold of Pandemic in His First Novel Senior lecturer at Rocky published "The Rationing" in 2019 as a "public policy thriller." Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Video of Did Charles Wheelan &amp;#039;88 Predict COVID-19 in His First Novel? https://www.youtube.com/embed/Rje9Hw5V1XI?wmode=opaque&controls=&origin=http://admissions.dartmouth.edu&autoplay=1&mute=0 Play Button Mia Costa Talks About Kamala Harris as VP Pick The assistant professor weighs in on the significance of the vice-presidential candidate. BACK Mia Costa Talks About Kamala Harris as VP Pick The assistant professor weighs in on the significance of the vice-presidential candidate. Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Video of Mia Costa on Biden&amp;#039;s Vice Presidential Pick https://www.youtube.com/embed/qpwNKUfgmpw?wmode=opaque&controls=&origin=http://admissions.dartmouth.edu&autoplay=1&mute=0 Play Button Professor Matthew Delmont on the Significance of Juneteenth "It remains at its roots a celebration of freedom," says the Dartmouth historian. BACK Professor Matthew Delmont on the Significance of Juneteenth "It remains at its roots a celebration of freedom," says the Dartmouth historian. Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Video of The origins and importance of Juneteenth https://www.youtube.com/embed/4hn91tQ_1Qw?wmode=opaque&controls=&origin=http://admissions.dartmouth.edu&autoplay=1&mute=0 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Scholars Who Teach For Dartmouth professors, teaching is a passion, a calling, a way of life. Mentorship is instinctive, one of the most rewarding aspects of their scholarship. Dartmouth faculty members are also pioneering researchers and influential thought-leaders. Their work with students helps them advance the frontier of knowledge and helps students advance their careers. Dartmouth classrooms are interactive, collaborative, discussion-based environments. Areas of Study Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Noelia Sol Cirnigliaro Associate Professor of Spanish "In order to understand a cultural or literary object from the Hispanic world, students of Spanish need to gain a deep understanding of its formal structure, its characters, the stories the work and its genre are designed to tell, and the political implications of those stories. Learn More About Humanities Programs Enrico Riley Professor of Studio Art "I am passionate about my artistic practice because it allows me additional ways of existing in the world. I enjoy teaching simply because I am exposed to the endlessly diverse minds of students. All students are unique and have something to teach." Learn More About Arts and Performing Arts Programs Mukul Sharma Professor of Earth Sciences A recent recipient of the Guggenheim Foundation, Professor Sharma explores a novel approach to sequestering atmospheric CO2 through clay minerals. "The sustainable exploitation of resources—metals, minerals, oil, natural gas, water, soil, rocks—is controlling our life, our destiny, our security, our well-being." Learn More About Physical & Life Sciences Programs Mona Domosh Joan. P. and Edward J. Foley Jr. 1933 Professor of Geography "The interesting thing about geography is that it spans human and physical sciences, and there are conversations between the two. There is a new field called critical physical geography that is trying to apply some of the insights from critical social sciences – like feminist geography – to fields like climate science, geomorphology, and biogeography." Learn More About Social Science Programs Nicholas Reo Associate Professor of Native American Studies "A citizen of the Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of Chippewa Indians, he studies Indigenous knowledge and ecological stewardship on Indigenous lands. Dr. Reo blends ecological, anthropological and Indigenous methodologies in his work, often via tribal community-university partnerships." Learn More About Interdisciplinary Programs Katheryn Lively Professor of Sociology, Dean of the College "The student experience is much more multifaceted than I ever understood as a faculty member and even as a house professor. As a social psychologist who's been interested in inequality, group interactions, well-being, and identity, I feel like I'm doing applied social psychology every day. It's a lot of fun." Learn More About Social Sciences Programs Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Big Green News Feed All News Stories Three Faculty Members Win 2022 Guggenheim Fellowships Lyricist Wins Kleban Prize for Musical Theatre Joshua Bennett Wins MLA Award for his Latest Book Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog One thing that you might never know about Dartmouth College until you enroll is that the professors here really value the diverse backgrounds from which their students come from. Read More Breakfast with an amazing professor! Adrian Chimboza 2025 Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback