Skip to main content Colorado State University Admissions Visit Info Apply hamburger The Basics Information for Future Students Information for Counselors, Parents and Families Cost and Financial Aid What We Stand For The CSU Experience Academic programs This Amazing Location Campus Life The Value of a CSU Education Connect With CSU Request Info Find Your Counselor View Our Blog Contact Us COVID-19 Updates Visit Visits and Events Directions and Parking Virtual Tour Apply Applying to Colorado State Continuing Your Application Checking Your Application Status Graduate Student Admissions Admitted Students Cost and Financial Aid Cost is the start of the financial fit conversation, but it should never be the end. Be sure to consider the whole picture when considering the cost of attendance at Colorado State or any university. What kind of experience are you looking for? Can you offset the cost with other factors to make a financial fit? How we approach financial aid Colorado State is dedicated to creating one of the best higher education experiences in the nation. That’s why the Office of Financial Aid uses financial aid as a tool to intentionally craft a community with diverse backgrounds, experiences and goals. There are many ways the university could discount the investment required to attend, but that would also mean decreasing the value of the college experience. Instead, Colorado State invests in each student as they make an investment in the university, and the result is worth it. Net price calculator Get the most accurate view of what paying for college might look like for you. Use The Calculator Your financial fit At Colorado State, we approach the financial decision as a combination for four distinct and important factors: cost, aid, strategies, and outcomes. Cost The cost of attending CSU varies based on several factors, including whether you are a Colorado resident or not, your living plans once at CSU, and more. However, for all students, the cost of higher education enables the experiences and learning that are unique here. Cost of Attendance Aid Financial aid comes in several shapes and sizes. At CSU, we consider aid as any scholarship, grant, loan, or work study opportunity a student takes advantage of. Each student should work to find the right balance of financial aid to help reduce the cost of higher education. Financial aid 101 Strategies Family savings, summer jobs, smart budgeting, payment plans, college credits earned at other institutions or through advanced placement programs — there are a lot of ways to reduce the cost of your education and impact the bottom line. 7 FUNDING STRATEGIES TO CONSIDER Outcomes Your college investment might be the biggest investment you ever make. It needs to be worth it. Ask the tough questions about your education. Where are alumni working? What future salary can you expect from your major? What does the university do to prepare you to find work? The CSU Effect Cost and aid resources Residency It is important to determine state residency when applying for aid and determining cost of attendance. Students who do not initially qualify can petition for residency in certain circumstances. Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) The Western Undergraduate Exchange, or WUE, is a program that significantly reduces the cost of tuition for non-Colorado residents who live in select Western states and territories. Merit-based scholarships CSU offers several merit-based scholarship opportunities, which are distributed according to academic and personal achievements. Learn more about merit scholarships if you live in Colorado and merit scholarships if live out of state. Applying for aid There are often several steps that must be taken to qualify and receive financial aid, which vary depending on the specific program or aid you are applying for. It all starts with filling out the FAFSA, or the Free Application for Federal Student Aid. More advice and tips Learn more about paying for college to make CSU a reality. Financial Aid Blogs Cost & Aid Resources Green and Gold Scholarships for Residents Green and Gold Scholarships for Non-Residents Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) Financial Aid Blogs Net Price Calculator Applying to CSU Getting Started Future Freshmen / First-Year Students Transfer Students International Freshmen / First-Year International Transfer Students Second Bachelor’s / Post-bachelor Graduate Students Non-Degree Students Returning to CSU Online Undergraduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Continuing Your Application Freshman Application Transfer Application Submitting Documents with Your Application Check Your Application Status Calendars and Deadlines An equal access and equal opportunity university. © 2022 Colorado State University #colostatebound Contact Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement