Skip to content Apply Visit Info Give open searchsubmit Menu openAbout SDSU History & Mission Leadership Strategic Plan Diversity Land Acknowledgement Contact Us openNews & Events All News Calendar Social Media openAcademics Programs Academic Support Academic Calendars Study Abroad SDSU Imperial Valley SDSU Global Campus SDSU Library Canvas openAdmissions & Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans & Service Members Parents & Families Counselors Cost of Attendance Financial Aid & Scholarships openLife at SDSU Housing Dining Student Union Clubs & Organizations Performance Groups Aztec Recreation Center Health & Well-being Support & Services Athletics openResearch & Innovation Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Student Research Entrepreneurship Sustainability Research Foundation Information for Researchers Alumni Give openI am a Future Student Current Student Newly Admitted Student Parent/Guardian Counselor Faculty / Staff Member openColleges Arts and Letters Fowler College of Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Services SDSU Library Professional Studies and Fine Arts Sciences Weber Honors College openOther Locations SDSU Georgia SDSU Global Campus SDSU Imperial Valley SDSU Mission Valley Apply Visit Info Give youtube twitter facebook instagram In this Section Admissions Admissions First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Counselors Academic Programs Cost of Attendance Contact Us Location San Diego, "America's Finest City" San Diego is California's second largest city, borders the Pacific Ocean and Mexico, and is recognized globally as a dynamic international hub. Known for its ideal climate with daytime temperatures rarely below 60°F or above 80°F degrees (in other words, it's always flip-flop weather), San Diego has miles of sandy beaches, and a variety of things to see and do. SDSU's campus is within a 15-minute drive of downtown San Diego, the Pacific Ocean, and the mountains. In the heart of San Diego. How Close? 10 miles → Beaches 10 miles → Downtown 50 miles → Mountains 75 miles → Deserts 95 miles → Disneyland 120 miles → Los Angeles 350 miles → Phoenix 500 miles → San Francisco Living in San Diego San Diego's geographic location and diverse regional population create plenty of opportunities for work, play and learning. From the hustle and bustle of the Gaslamp Quarter downtown to the charming and eclectic beach towns of Pacific Beach, Ocean Beach, and La Jolla, San Diego offers a wide variety of social and cultural activities. There aren't many places where you can watch the sun rise in the desert, build a snowman in the mountains in the afternoon, and watch the sun set into the ocean all in one day, but this is possible in San Diego. Explore Beaches and Bays Whether you want to go surfing, take a bike ride, explore tide pools, or spend a day in the sun, our beaches and bays have something for you. You can even earn SDSU credit in water sports like kayaking, sailing, stand up paddling, surfing, wakeboarding, and windsurfing by taking classes at the Mission Bay Aquatic Center! Grab your towel and take a break in the sun at San Diego's beaches and bays. Set Foot on Adventure Your adventure awaits! Hike sandstone bluffs overlooking the ocean in Torrey Pines or head inland closer to SDSU, and you can climb peaks to take in breathtaking panoramic views of landmarks over 100 miles away. Challenge your physical and mental limits with classes and outdoor excursions through Aztec Adventures. Discover San Diego's hiking trails. Arts Alive San Diego Arts & Culture Celebrate the Arts The arts are alive in San Diego and at SDSU. San Diego is home to two Tony™ Award-winning theaters, historic sites, art, music venues, dance performances, film festivals, galleries, and much more. In the heart of San Diego is Balboa Park, which hosts 17 museums and performing arts venues. And to top it off, SDSU hosts concerts for many well-known artists at our on-campus venues, Viejas Arena and the Cal Coast Credit Union Open Air Theatre, and hosts plays, musicals, films, music ensembles and dance in our multiple theatres. Be In the Know Play Like a Local This is the place to step out of your comfort zone, try something new, and perhaps discover a new hobby that you love. Whether it's taking in the arts, strolling one of the many outdoor shopping malls, driving up to Disneyland for a day trip, or soaking in the rays at the beach, there is plenty to do. So c'mon, what are you waiting for? Live it up and explore the top things to do in San Diego. Eat Like a Local Due to the city's long history and close proximity to Mexico, there is an extensive variety of authentic Mexican restaurants to choose from, and given that our region is surrounded by farms and ocean, fresh local ingredients and farm-to-table roots create an excellent California cuisine. It's no wonder that San Diego was ranked No. 5 on Yelp's U.S. Destination for Food Lovers. Getting hungry? The San Diego food scene is waiting for you. Career Services, Job Resources Leave Your Mark on the Industry SDSU prepares you for life after graduation. Our region is an industry leader in biotechnology, engineering, cybersecurity, innovation and technology, healthcare, travel and tourism and the blue economy. With its proximity to the eastern edge of the Pacific Rim, Mexico, and South America, San Diego is a cultural center that provides opportunities for learning experiences. Through internships, mentorships, and job placements, San Diego State University provides students with opportunities to work in these industries. This experience will prepare you for life after you graduate and begin your career, or take the next step in your educational journey. Visit SDSU We offer a variety of in-person and virtual events for prospective and admitted students and their families. Tours & Virtual Visits Preview Day Explore SDSU Open House Out-of-State Events Welcome to SDSU Contact AdmissionsVisitRequest Info youtube twitter facebook instagram 619-594-5200 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 Maps Parking Campus Directory Employment Media Relations Canvas General Contact Network Status Strategic Plan Newsletter Accessibility Document Readers Digital Privacy Statement Campus Safety Reports Feedback © 2022 San Diego State UniversityAll Rights ReservedLast Updated back to top Last Updated 12/13/21