Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Caroline York Class of 2025 back Click to Close Bio Hey y'all! I'm Caroline York, and I'm a '25 from Georgia! My hope is to share my Dartmouth experience with potential '26s, '27s, '28s and beyond! On campus, I write sports for The Dartmouth, a Center for Social Impact SIBS mentor, am in Christian life, a Tour Guide, a Dartmouth Emergency Medical Services (EMS) member, a Dartmouth Club Runner, and write for this blog! Otherwise, you'll find me enjoying winter, studying in the Tower Room, and eating warm FoCo cookies. Welcome to my world! Academic Program Classics on the Pre-Health track Favorite Thing Right Now Runs around Occom Pond! Hometown Marietta, Georgia Pronouns she/her About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Caroline York back Click to Close Caroline's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallOn Campus Favorite Class: Indian Country Today I initially took this class because I wanted to know more about Dartmouth’s history with Native Americans. It ended up being my favorite class because Professor Duthu was so enthusiastic about Native American affairs. He related the lectures to his own experiences growing up on a reservation, which made the class come to life. WinterOn Campus Favorite Class: Ancient Medicine As a potential Classics major on the pre-health track, this class was perfect for me! We learned about different medical practices from Rome and Greece and how medicine had changed in the past 2,000 years. We had a class in the Geisel School of Medicine and got to hold human organs! A Letter to Freshman Year With freshman year coming to a close, I wrote a Thank You note to one of the best years! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/31/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Freshman Year Social Life academics Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Alumni Interview I sat down with my friend, Ali '20, who conducts interviews, to gain some insight into what students should expect for the interviews. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/28/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Interview Admission application Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Weekend Getaway to Boston A weekend in big-city Boston allowed me to reflect on Dartmouth's unique rural location. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/21/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts boston Dartmouth Coach weekends Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Family Weekend Dartmouth hosted its annual First-Year Family Weekend, and I was lucky to visit with my parents! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/9/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts family weekend Social Life Spring Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Mock Trial Team If you're a high school student reading this, odds are you're an expert at arguing with your parents! Here at Dartmouth, you can put those argumentation skills to good use with the Mock Trial Team! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/1/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Mock Trial Community clubs Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Banding Together: Student Bands As a musically challenged student, I enjoy the musical creations of my classmates who are in band! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/25/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Band Music The Hop Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Why I Continue to Choose Dartmouth Decision day is just around the corner, and many of you are still considering your decision. I obviously chose Dartmouth, and I continue "choosing" Dartmouth for several reasons. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/19/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Why Dartmouth 26s choosing dartmouth Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Covering Football Pro Day This week, I wrote a story about the football Pro Day for the student newspaper, The Dartmouth. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/10/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Football the dartmouth Sports Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Women's Bible Study There are active Bible study groups on campus, and I love my group! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/6/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts christianity clubs Social Life Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Spring Break! When you imagine spring break, images of crowded beaches in sunny Florida probably come to mind. However, after being away for ten weeks, I wanted a chance to come home to be with my family. So I spent two wonderful weeks in Georgia. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 03/29/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Spring Break Biology campus life Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Pages 1 2 3 4 next last Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback