Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us Academics How to Apply Tuition & Aid Student Life Connect About Us Search Admission Process Transfer Applicants International Applicants Financial Aid Academics Health Professions Mentoring Program Student Life Veterans Campus Visit Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Admission Process Transfer Applicants International Applicants Financial Aid Academics Health Professions Mentoring Program Student Life Veterans Campus Visit About Us Academics How to Apply Financial Aid Student Life Visit University of Miami Undergraduate Admission About Us FAQs Academics FAQs AAA Academics FAQs Admission Process Transfer Applicants International Applicants Financial Aid Academics Health Professions Mentoring Program Student Life Veterans Campus Visit GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Open All Tabs What is the general education curriculum at UM? The University of Miami’s framework for general education is nontraditional, as our Cognates Program aims to provide a broad array of intellectual and cultural exploration. The Areas of Knowledge requirement is designed to help students understand and appreciate intellectual achievements in major areas of human inquiry and creative endeavor. Visit our Cognate Search Engine to learn more information. What majors/minors are available at UM? UM offers students a unique array of learning options within our nine undergraduate schools and colleges. For a current list of undergraduate majors, visit our Majors by School or College page. Visit our Academic Bulletin for a comprehensive list of our undergraduate academic programs, including minors. Does UM have an honors program and, if so, how are students selected? The Foote Fellows Honors Program includes students from each of the nine schools and colleges at UM. The top 10 percent of admitted students are typically invited to join the program. There is no separate application for the honors program; all applicants are automatically considered. If you are admitted to UM, you will learn if you have been invited to the honors program soon thereafter. What other programs of distinction are available for students? The University offers several programs designed to challenge and reward high-achieving students in a variety of fields. Visit our Programs of Distinction page for more information. Where can I get information on pre-professional programs? UM offers pre-professional advising for students interested in pre-health and pre-law. Visit our Pre-Law Advising and Pre-Health Advising and Mentoring pages for more information. Are students allowed to double major within the different schools/colleges? Yes, UM encourages students to pursue double majors or a combination of majors and minors across all of our nine undergraduate schools and colleges, especially in unrelated academic fields. Some major combinations might be more feasible than others, but a student’s academic advisor will lead him or her down an appropriate academic path. When can students add a major/minor? Students may declare a second major or a minor once they are admitted to UM and enrolled in classes during their first semester. By when do students have to declare a major? Students are advised to declare a major during their sophomore year. Can students change their major? It is common for students to consider changing their academic direction at some point during their college career. If this happens to you, it is important to speak with your academic advisor to ensure you are on track for graduation. What is UM’s average class size? The average class size at UM is between 16 and 27 students. How accessible are the faculty? UM’s 12:1 student-to-faculty ratio gives students access to faculty across all academic disciplines. In addition, faculty have weekly office hours, and students are welcome to visit their professors during those times. How does academic course advising work at UM? All UM students have an academic advisor and, typically, meet with them at least once a semester. Depending on the number of majors/minors students are pursuing across the different schools/colleges, they will have an academic advisor who specializes in each area of concentration. Does UM provide opportunities for undergraduates to conduct research? As a private research institution, UM welcomes and encourages students who would be interested in pursuing faculty-led or their own original research as early as in a student’s second semester of their first year. Students conduct research across all academic disciplines regardless of their major or field of study. Visit our Undergraduate Research and Community Outreach page for more information What types of study-abroad programs does UM offer? The Office of Study Abroad offers programs as short as one week and as long as an academic year that accommodate students in all disciplines. Currently, UM offers more than 80 programs in more than 40 countries. You may study abroad on a faculty-led program, on a UM flagship program, or on a UM Partner Program. What resources and facilities are available for academic assistance? Whether you need help with homework or finding a job, the University of Miami is there for you. We have compiled a list of just some the academic resources that will be available to you as an undergraduate. What experimental learning opportunities can students find at UM? At UM, your education extends beyond the classroom to labs, studios, hospitals, museums, internships—and even countries halfway around the world. With access to a major metropolitan city, the real-world learning opportunities abound. Here are only a handful of the initiatives and opportunities our students take advantage of: Internships Undergraduate Research Civic Scholars Program Service Learning Courses Short-Term Credit Programs Does UM offer summer programs for high school students? Yes, UM’s Summer Scholars Program provides a unique opportunity for high school students to study at UM and earn six credit hours. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Undergraduate Admission 1306 Stanford Drive, Suite 1210 Coral Gables, FL 33146 TEL: 305-284-6000 TEL: 305-284-6000 FAX: 305-284-2507 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search myUM Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram tiktok Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback