Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Integrity & Ethics You are here Home Student Life Diversity & Well-being Integrity & Ethics About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Open and honest communication is critical to all members of the Temple University community. As an Owl, you should know that your concerns and questions will be answered openly and honestly. We value a culture of integrity and ethical behavior for all students, staff and faculty. We have a variety of resources to uphold these standards and help Owls understand the laws, policies and guidance that apply to our conduct. Discover our resources for any questions you may have regarding our student code of conduct, who to contact if you have a confidential question or concern, and more. Student Conduct and Community Standards Everyone deserves to live, learn and grow in an environment that feels safe and welcoming. We hold our students to a high standard of conduct. Together, this creates the shared expectation of what is and isn’t acceptable behavior. A Temple education means a holistic education—it’s essential to understand how your actions impact others and how to take responsibility when you’ve made a mistake. Academic dishonesty, sexual misconduct and violence, reckless behavior, and more are not tolerated at Temple. https://studentconduct.temple.edu/ Student Conduct Code Learn more about how the Student Conduct Code serves the Temple community. Student Conduct Code Ethics and Compliance The Ethics and Compliance Office is committed to fostering a culture of integrity and ethical behavior throughout the university. This campus resource provides a space for anyone to ask questions, raise concerns or report something that could be a violation of applicable laws or university policies, standards or procedures. It also provides resources to assist in finding the right answers to your questions. All concerns and questions will be heard clearly, answered openly and resolved fairly. We know that with such a large campus community, issues may arise. It isn’t always easy to know what to do, which is why the Ethics and Compliance Office stands ready to help and involve other university offices as appropriate. To reach the Ethics and Compliance Office at any time, stop by the office or visit the Temple University Ethics and Compliance Helpline. The helpline is a 24-hour, confidential communication channel so you can ask questions or report concerns. You can submit reports online or by phone 24/7, 365 days a year and you may submit reports anonymously, if you choose. Temple University strictly prohibits any form of retaliation or retribution against any individuals who report, in good faith, an actual, potential or suspected issue regarding compliance with applicable laws or regulations or university policies https://www.temple.edu/about/ethics-compliance Office of Ethics and Compliance Learn more about how Temple’s Office of Ethics and Compliance supports students. Office of Ethics and Compliance Back to Diversity & Well-being Back to Student Life Go back to Student LifeMore in Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info