Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Scholarships for International Students You are here Home Costs, Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Our international students are an integral part of the Temple community. We provide opportunities for financial awards to promising international students to help make their college education in the United States more accessible. Contents Merit Scholarships#WhyUS Scholarship#YouAreWelcomeHere ScholarshipBroad Street Finish Line ScholarshipCAP Advantage ScholarshipSister City Scholarships Merit Scholarships Temple awards merit scholarships to international students with strong academic records. These scholarships range from $2,000 to full tuition. The availability of funding and the size, quality and characteristics of the overall applicant pool will determine the number and value of merit scholarships offered. Please note full-tuition scholarships are extremely competitive. Students are automatically considered for merit scholarships upon applying to Temple—a separate application is not needed. Submit your application for admission and all supporting documents by the application deadlines. We strongly encourage students to apply early in order to have the best chance to receive a merit award. #WhyUS Campaign and Scholarship Temple has introduced the #WhyUS campaign and scholarships to help ensure all international students know that the U.S. is one of the most desirable places in the world to study. These scholarships, which range from $2,000 to $10,000 for up to four consecutive years (four years for first-year students and two years for transfer students), will be awarded for the best responses to our creative prompt. Winners will be chosen independent of a prospective student’s academic performance, and scholarships can be combined with other awards already received. Scholarship winners will be announced by April 1. Eligibility Criteria To be considered for #WhyUS scholarships, you must be a Temple applicant (first-year or transfer international student). An international applicant is an individual who holds citizenship in a country outside the United States and who does not also possess U.S. citizenship or permanent residency. demonstrate interest in one of the #WhyUS points. Read more about the scholarship and #WhyUS points. How to Apply Apply for admission using the Common Application. Submit the #WhyUS application with your response to the creative prompt by February 1. If submitting a large file, please also share a link. Scholarship winners will be announced by April 1. Deadline Make sure to meet the application deadline to be considered for the #WhyUS Scholarship. March 1: Application deadline April 1: Announcement of scholarship winners The deadline to submit your enrollment deposit is May 1. #YouAreWelcomeHere Campaign and Scholarship In 2016, Temple pioneered a nationwide welcome message from U.S. higher education to international students around the world. Through the #YouAreWelcomeHere scholarship, Temple recognizes international students who demonstrate a vision for enhancing intercultural understanding. Temple was one of the first nine universities to make an initial commitment to the #YouAreWelcomeHere initiative. Every year, we select two first-year students to receive an annual, renewable scholarship of $20,000. Scholarship winners will be announced by April 1. Eligibility Criteria To be considered for the #YouAreWelcomeHere scholarship, you must be a first-year international applicant. An international applicant is an individual who holds citizenship in a country outside the United States and who does not also possess U.S. citizenship or permanent residency. attend (or have graduated from) a secondary school outside of the U.S. demonstrate interest and personal initiative in activities involving intercultural learning and exchange. Three Steps to Apply Here’s what you need to do to apply for the scholarship. Apply for admission using the Common Application. Submit the #YouAreWelcomeHere application and corresponding essay or video to YAWH@temple.edu by Feb. 1. If submitting a large video file, please share a link to the video. If you are awarded a scholarship, you must claim it by submitting an enrollment deposit by May 1. Deadlines Make sure to meet the following deadlines in order to be considered. March 1: Application deadline April 1: Announcement of scholarship winners The deadline to submit your enrollment deposit is May 1. To check on the status of your admissions and scholarship decision, check TUportal, or contact us at YAWH@temple.edu or +1-215-204-4900. Return to top Learn more about one of our first recipients. In 2019, Ayna Mammedova of Turkmenistan and Andres Mondragon of Peru became the inaugural recipients of Temple’s #YouAreWelcomeHere scholarship. Ayna Mammedova Biochemistry Major, College of Science and Technology “Before applying, I watched a lot of videos about #YouAreWelcomeHere. I was a bit nervous about the application process. Now, I am calm and confident. I know Temple is welcoming me. The university is so kind with its international students—and I am proud to be one of them.” Learn More About Ayna Return to top Broad Street Finish Line Scholarship The Broad Street Finish Line Scholarship supports first-generation college students and helps them stay on track financially to graduate in four years. It’s awarded annually in increments of $500 to $5,000, depending on need. Incoming undergraduate students are automatically considered for the Broad Street Finish Line Grant at the time of admission. Learn more Return to top CAP Advantage Scholarship CAP advantage Program (CAP) scholarships are available to the first 30 students who commit to CAP for Fall 2022. The selected students will receive this one-time scholarship once they complete CAP 3, the highest level of the program and matriculate as a full-time student at Temple University. Learn more. Return to top Sister City Scholarships If you are a first-year applicant from one of Philadelphia’s Sister Cities, Temple University welcomes you to apply for this special scholarship opportunity. These are scholarships of $10,000 per academic year for four years. Click below to learn more about qualifying sister cities, eligibility and to apply. Scholarship winners will be announced by April 1. Philadelphia’s Sister Cities Abruzzo, Italy Aix-en-Provence, France Douala, Cameroon Florence, Italy Frankfurt am Main, Germany Incheon, Korea Kobe, Japan Nizhny Novgorod, Russia Tel Aviv-Yafo, Israel Tianjin, China Toruń, Poland Apply Now Return to top https://admissions.temple.edu/about/meet-staff/meet-international-staff Contact International Admissions Temple understands that you may have a lot of questions or feel uncertain about how to navigate college costs at this time. We’re available to answer your questions. Connect with someone from Temple’s Office of International Admissions. Contact International Admissions Back to Main Cost and Aid How to Apply Go back to Costs, Aid & ScholarshipsMore in Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info