Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Transfer Advising Confirmed Students Transfer Checklist International Transfer Advising Appointment Transfer Ambassadors Major/College Change Advising Non-Matriculated Advising Events Meet Our Team About Contact an Advisor Instagram Twitter Home Transfer Advising Transfer Advising Transferring to Cincinnati? Every transfer student experience is unique, and enrolling at a new institution can be challenging. That's why we have a dedicated team of academic advisors assigned to help make your transition to University of Cincinnati as seamless as possible. Our transfer advising services include: General pre-transfer advising Major changing advising Help with exploring program options Unofficial, preliminary credit evaluation If you'd like to set up an appointment regarding credit evaluation, please fill out the transfer advising request form (if you are a current UC student, please schedule an appointment using My Bearcat Network). Please allow up to one week for an advisor to contact you to set up an appointment. If you have general questions or wish to speak to one of our advisors, call or email us. To best prepare for your advising appointment, please follow this step-by-step guide. Request Transfer Advising Expand All If you've recently confirmed your admission Expand Please visit the next steps page for more information about when to expect to be assigned a college advisor and more. Also, make sure you've taken care of the essentials, before classes start. To help you on the way, we've put together a transfer student checklist. Expand All If you haven't applied to Cincinnati yet Expand If you have questions regarding the application process, the Admissions Office can help with matters such as: How to apply Where to send transcripts Application status If you have transfer advising questions prior to applying or confirming, you may schedule an appointment with one of our advisors. We provide: Tailored, personalized academic advising Unofficial credit evaluation Credit applicability and transferability to desired major General advising questions about joining the Bearcat family! Don't let your credits go to waste If you transfer from an Ohio two-year community or technical college, you may have already earned an associate degree. Check out the State of Ohio's Credit When It's Due initiative, for more information. Resources for Transfer Students Academic Student Campus Technology Academic Calendars Semester schedules and important dates and deadlines for class registration, withdrawal, fees, and refunds. Accessibility Resources Learn how the Accessibility Resources Office empowers students with disabilities through accommodations and support services. Articulation Agreements Cincinnati has agreements with colleges in Ohio and throughout the U.S. that enable students to easily transfer to our university. Career Education Resources for your career planning, such as job search preparation, profile assessment, and coaching. Credit When It's Due If you transfer from an Ohio two-year community or technical college, you may have already earned an associate degree. Learning Commons Academic tutoring, writing assistance, and supplemental instruction for students, with both individual and group options. Majors & Programs Search among more than 250 undergrad majors and programs, and learn more about admission requirements and courses. Ohio Transfer Module OTM guarantees students transfer of applicable credits among Ohio's public colleges and universities. One Stop Student Services The portal for all things related to registration, student records, student accounts, financial aid, and collections. Placement Testing Required for new students who have never taken college-level English or Math courses. Scholarships Search for scholarships and aid especially dedicated to transfer students. Transfer Credit Find out if and how your credits transfer towards your program at Cincinnati, including current college credits, CLEP, AP scores, and more. Transferology Transferology is a free tool that allows students to get information about course equivalencies, programs, courses, and degree audits among a number of participating institutions, including University of Cincinnati. African American Cultural and Resource Center The center helps prepare students to become effective leaders, and plays a key role in the mission of the university. Bearcat Bond The Bearcat Bond supports Cincinnati's mission in shaping educated and engaged citizens by incorporating the Just Community Principles. Bearcat Card Student ID The Bearcat Card is both your student ID and a pre-paid debit card that can be used at over 400 locations on and off-campus. Ethnic Programs & Services The center enhances the cultural, ethnic and racial awareness of the entire university community and supports the needs of students of color. LGBTQ Center An inclusive campus community that welcomes people of all sexual orientations and gender identities and provides support, resources, and advocacy. Off-Campus Housing Fellow transfer students are looking for roommates. Sign up and find your new home today! Student Activities and Learning Development Get involved on campus with more than 500 student organizations, as well as activities and cultural programs for students. Student Code of Conduct The Student Code of Conduct defines behavior expected of all University of Cincinnati students. Student Health Insurance Learn more about the SHI eligibility requirements, coverage, enrollment, charges, and deadlines. Veterans Programs & Services Find out how you can use your VA benefits at Cincinnati and learn more about veteran-specific activities and programs. Athletics There's something for everyone in Athletics, whether it's Division I athletics, club or intramural sports, or recreation. Bookstore Our campus bookstore offers everything from school supplies to light dorm room furniture. In-store and online. Campus Recreation Center Everything you need for your workout at a student discount, including fitness equipment, courts, and pools. Food Services Find information on meal plans, dining centers, and Food Service's contribution to sustainability. Housing Residence hall communities are safe and convenient low-stress environments that encourage and promote student success. Libraries Ten libraries, including digital collections, textbook reserves, remote online access, and more are available to you at no cost. Parking View parking maps, buy your parking pass, and get updates about event parking. Motorist assistance is also available. Public Safety Get more information on public safety and emergency response resources, including police, fire, and safety services. Shuttle Services Cincinnati’s free campus shuttle bus system provides over a half-million rides annually. View routes and schedules. Canopy UC's innovative, collaborative and student-centric eLearning ecosystem, where Bearcats thrive. Catalyst Cincinnati's online student management system. Add/drop classes, view grades, manage financial aid, and much more. UC email A UC email account is provided to all University of Cincinnati students and will be used for all official university communications. My Bearcat Network My Bearcat Network is an appointment scheduling and Early Alert tool developed to support student success and engagement. Transfer & Transition Advising Center 120 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221 Phone: 513-556-9000 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.