This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Menu About Academics Cost & Aid Campus Life Employees Apply Now Your Application(s) To apply to Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology you will first need to create an application account. Once that account is created you will be prompted to select the year in which you will be attending the university. Keep in mind the semester you wish to begin your studies may not be in the current calendar year. You will then be asked to select a student type. The definitions for the student types are listed below: · Freshman - Concurrent High School Student: Current high school students who wish to participate in OSUIT classes during their high school junior or senior year. · Freshman - First-time College Student: Current high school students or those who have earned no more than six hours of college-level credit after graduation from high school (excludes credits earned concurrently in high school or credit earned by examination). Submit Application for Admissions, official high school transcript, and immunization records. ACT or SAT test scores are requested not required. · Transfer Student: Undergraduate student that has earned more than six college-level credit hours after graduation from high school. Excludes current high school students, remedial/developmental courses or pre-college credits earned concurrently in high school or credit earned by examination. Submit Application for Admissions, official high school transcript, official college transcripts from every college attended and immunization records. ACT or SAT test scores are requested not required · Readmission (Returning) Student: Undergraduate student that has previously attended OSUIT, but has not enrolled in the immediate past semester. Any student that has graduated or withdrawn from the university must be readmitted to OSUIT. Submit Application for Admissions and official college transcript(s) from any college attended since OSUIT. · Non-Degree: Students who wish to enroll in courses without intending to pursue a degree may be permitted to enroll in no more than nine credit hours without submitting academic credentials or meeting the academic curricular or performance requirements of the institution of desired entry. Retention standards will be enforced. Once a student has completed the designated number of hours, the student is required to meet the formal admission or transfer criteria for the institution of desired entry in order to enroll in additional course work. International Student: Undergraduate student that plans to attend or transfer to OSUIT on a visa. Applicant must be a graduate of high school or secondary school prior to the program start date. Student must show English proficiency with TOEFL, IELTS or as a native English speaker. All F-1 international students must show financial support for the estimated cost of attendance. For more information regarding international admissions requirements please contact the international admissions representative at: international.office@okstate.edu or by phone: 1-918-293-5210 Returning users:Log in to continue an application. First-time users:Create an account to start a new application. Request Info Visit Campus Apply Now Custom Training Give to OSUIT Oklahoma's Only University of Applied Technology Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology is a recognized leader in applied technology education and is known for world-class teaching facilities, partnerships with industry, and a nearly 100 percent career placement rate. Main Campus: 1801 E 4th Street Okmulgee, OK 74447 +1 800 722 4471 information@okstate.edu Directions Stillwater | Tulsa | Oklahoma City Accessibility | Safety | Legal & Trademarks | HEA Student Consumer | Ethics Point | Student Training | Jobs | Privacy Policy ©2022 - Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology | All Rights Reserved Back to Top