Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Transfer Applicants Brown is happy to welcome transfer students to campus each year, as they offer important and significant contributions to our campus community. Sub Navigation In This Section Eligibility Testing Requirements Transfer Credit Financial Aid Application Checklist Transfer Calendar What Makes a Good Transfer Applicant? Transfer Applicants Brown is happy to welcome transfer students to campus each year, as they offer important and significant contributions to our campus community. If you have applied for transfer admission, we will allow late submission of transcripts and recommendation letters. If we are missing anything from your application, we will contact you directly. You may reach the transfer team by emailing transferapp@brown.edu and we will respond during regular business hours. Most students who are unsatisfied with their college experience don't consider transferring to another school. They are unwilling to put up with the extra work, emotional energy and personal upheaval that transferring requires. Consequently, those who do take the initiative to transfer are already a significant distillation of the American college population. Transfers are people who are unwilling to settle. They are willing to do the extra work to get what they want. And they are willing to take the path less traveled to arrive at a better place. These qualities that transfers possess prepare them well for college in general and for Brown in particular. Brown's Open Curriculum is designed for the student who takes unusual initiative and demonstrates unusual independence. This could be part of the reason why transfers routinely do so well at Brown both academically and socially. It also might explain why so many of our most famous alumni originally came to Brown after a year or two at another institution. Start Your Application Applications to Brown are submitted online via the Common Application. Learn how to apply and start your application. How to Apply Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Transfer Applicants Open details for Transfer Applicants Bookmark this Page