Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us Academics How to Apply Tuition & Aid Student Life Connect About Us Search Majors by School or College The Cognates Program of General Education Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Majors by School or College The Cognates Program of General Education Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources About Us Academics How to Apply Financial Aid Student Life Visit University of Miami Undergraduate Admission Academics Experiential Learning AAA Experiential Learning Majors by School or College The Cognates Program of General Education Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply At UM, your education extends beyond the classroom walls to labs, studios, hospitals, museums, internships— and even countries half way around the world. With access to a major metropolitan city, the real-world learning opportunities abound. Alfred C. Glassell Jr. Sustain Laboratory The SUSTAIN lab at the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science has the capability to test three-dimensional coupled wind-waves and surge and their combined impacts on structures in conditions as extreme as a land-falling Category 5 hurricane. The laboratory exists as a unique resource for fundamental studies on air-sea interactions, wave dynamics, and boundary layer turbulence while providing an experimental test-bed for model development. Design/Build Design/Build students spend many hours drawing and imagining the buildings they design, realizing the ultimate goal of their ideas through construction. Ideas about physical weight, texture and temperature of materials, and the role tolerances play in craft and longevity of construction are best understood through building. Internships Location, location, location. 'Canes benefit from real-world experience in government, non-profit organizations, multinational corporations, and everything in between. Our students intern at U.S. Southern Command, Royal Caribbean, International Rescue Committee, and World Fuel Services, just to name a few. Not your thing? American Airlines, NBC Universal, Hilton International, Novartis Pharmaceuticals, and many more are also located in our own backyard. J & J Collaboratory The UM College of Engineering – Johnson & Johnson 3D Printing Center of Excellence Collaborative Laboratory allows the realization of cooperative educational and research opportunities for students. The facility provides access to a wide variety of advanced 3-D printers and fabricating equipment and has an engineer/scientist available for training purposes. Office of Civic and Community Engagement Translate your academic experience into real problem-solving skills and help build stronger connections between UM and the greater Miami community. Enroll in service-learning courses that link the classroom and the community, sign up for the UM Civic Scholars Program, participate in the Civic Engagement High School Partnership, or design a community-based research project. Orange Umbrella The Orange Umbrella in the School of Communication is open to all students. Using real-world, agency-style techniques, students learn about advertising by working on campaigns for clients that include design, social media, public relations, and content strategy. Study Abroad The world is your classroom when you participate in one of our study abroad programs. You can take architecture classes in Madrid or study history in Hong Kong; you'll see how living and learning abroad offers the opportunity to grow as a citizen of the world. Summer Programs At the University of Miami, summer is the time to venture outside your comfort zone. The Division of Continuing and International Education offers experiential courses. You’ll also find Summer & Intersession programs in Italy, England, and more. Undergraduate Research Starting in your first year, you’ll have the opportunity to learn by doing as you work side-by-side with a faculty mentor on cutting-edge research. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Undergraduate Admission 1306 Stanford Drive, Suite 1210 Coral Gables, FL 33146 TEL: 305-284-6000 TEL: 305-284-6000 FAX: 305-284-2507 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search myUM Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram tiktok Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback