Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Undergraduate Admissions Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy First-Year ApplicantsIt all starts here Transfer ApplicantsEasy transition Check Application Status Costs & Aid Apply for Aid Financial Aid Eligibility Costs to Attend Financial Aid Calculator Value of a Cornell Education Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Facts Frequently Asked Questions Cornell A-Z Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections You are here Home » Learn » Cornell Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) print share Facebook Twitter Cornell Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) Educating military leaders has been a tradition at Cornell University for 150 years Cornell has a long and prestigious military history which started with the Morrill Act of 1862. Cornell's founding and designation as New York State's Land Grant University imparted to it the responsibility to provide military training and education programs. Cornell formally established a ROTC unit in 1917. Cornell graduates have served with distinction in every major conflict since the Spanish-American War. Cornell commissioned more officers in World War I than any other institution in the United States including the military academies. During World War II, Cornellians again responded with more than 20,000 serving in the armed forces in every theatre of war. Question & Answer Panel with ROTC Leaders Question and Answer Panel with ROTC Cadets and Midshipmen Branches at Cornell Army 101 Barton Hall 607.255.4000 armyrotc@cornell.edu armyrotc.cornell.edu Army ROTC develops the critical thinking, communication, and team-building skills necessary to succeed in civilian life and the Army’s combat and non-combat specialties. Summer training is high-adventure and includes internships with Army units, parachuting, rappelling, and cultural immersion and language training in a foreign nation. Graduates have the opportunity of serving full-time in the Active Duty Army or the option to have a civilian career and serve the nation, part-time, in the Army Reserve or National Guard. Navy/Marine Corps Barton Hall 607.255.4202 navyrotc@cornell.edu navy.cornell.edu The Naval ROTC Unit at Cornell commissions officers in the United States Navy and Marine Corps. Students who participate in NROTC experience four years of challenging leadership, physical fitness, and hands-on fleet experiences. Each summer our Navy Option students tour with active duty Navy units on board ships, aircraft, and submarines. Our Marine Option students train during their summers with active duty Marine units on both coasts and, after their junior year, test their leadership mettle at Officer Candidates School. Numerous opportunities are available for students interested in participating and attaining a scholarship. Air Force 113 Barton Hall 607.255.4004 afrotc@cornell.edu afrotc.cornell.edu Cornell Air Force ROTC commissions quality officers for the United States Air Force and the United States Space Force. The program, combining traditional undergraduate education with military instruction, aims to develop leaders capable of tackling the nation's emerging challenges. Summer activities are also available, including internships, base visits, flight orientation, and cultural immersion and language training programs. Prospective cadets may participate in the program without incurring a service commitment and scholarships may be available for those who qualify. Location Barton Hall is the current home of the Naval/Marine Corps, Army, and Air Force ROTC units, consisting of classrooms, staff offices, a weight room, computer facilities, a study area, and lounges. Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Contact Us From your first questions about Cornell to the completion of your application, the Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you find the information you need. Website Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. University Privacy Statement Undergraduate Admissions Office Cornell University 410 Thurston Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 admissions@cornell.edu Tel: 607.255.5241 Fax: 607.255.0659 © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment Admitted Students