Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open 3 3D Magazine A Academic Evaluation ACT Alumni Interview Application Application Deadline Application Fee Application Fee Waiver Application Management System Art Supplement B Bound (Dartmouth Bound) C Candidacy Decisions College Report Common App Confidentiality of Admissions Records Contact Context Counselor Evaluation Counselor Recommendation Course Changes D D-Plan Deferred Duolingo English Test E Early Decision Early Decision Agreement Eligibility Guidelines Essay Exchange to Transfer Student Policy F Fee Waiver Final Secondary School Report First-Year Trips Forced Commitments G Gap Year H Holistic Admissions I IELTS InitialView Intent to Enroll International Students Ivy League Agreement L Likely Letter M Mailing List Mid-Year Report N Need-Blind New Student Orientation Notice of Nondiscrimination P Peer Recommendation Portfolio Post-Acceptance Review Q QuestBridge R Recommendations Regular Decision S SAT SAT Subject Tests School Profile Secondary School Report Security & Fire Safety Report Special Circumstances Standardized Testing Summer Term for College Students Supplemental Materials T Take Dartmouth Home Teacher Evaluation Teacher Recommendation Testing Testing Waiver TOEFL Transcript Transfer U Undocumented Students V Veterans Virtual Tour W Wait List Writing Supplement International Students Video of Need-Blind Admissions and International Students Learn More About Universal Need-Blind Admissions Many Cultures, One Community At Dartmouth, diversity is one of our most valuable resources. It's fundamental to the learning experience and a core feature of the campus environment. The members of the undergraduate Class of 2023 hail from 57 countries—almost one-third of the world's nations—and make up the most geographically diverse class ever to matriculate at the College. "Every day I feel like I know more at lunchtime than I did in the morning. I've especially enjoyed meeting other international students and engaging in cross-cultural dialogue with them about their experiences and home countries." — Tehut Biru '21, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia Applying to Dartmouth as an International Student International students' applications to Dartmouth are evaluated in the same manner as all other applications: the Dartmouth Admissions Committee uses a holistic and individualized review process to make sure we appreciate each candidacy in its entirety. As such, our evaluation goes beyond courses, grades, and test scores. We seek to understand each applicant within their context, which for international students may extend to the national curriculum, availability of extracurriculars, and access to standardized testing. As part of the holistic review, we evaluate school transcripts, test scores, letters of recommendation, essays, and other information our applicants provide about how they invest their time when they are not in school. Dartmouth practices need-blind admissions for all applicants including international students. Applicants are admitted to the College without regard to financial circumstances. This means that applications are reviewed and accepted based solely on a student's qualifications, and not on their ability to pay. Once the Admissions office has selected the students it intends to admit to Dartmouth, the Financial Aid Office determines each student's need, and awards financial aid accordingly. Explore our most frequently asked questions about the international student admission process: Who is considered an international student by Dartmouth? If I attend a secondary school outside of the United States, do I need to file a different application? What if my country or school has a different curriculum or grading system than the U.S.? As an international student, do I have to submit the standardized testing required of U.S. applicants? If English is not my first language, am I required to submit a language proficiency test? Does Dartmouth accept InitialView interviews? Are recommendations written in languages other than English accepted? If my school doesn't have a counselor, who should I ask to write the recommendation traditionally written by a school counselor? What do I need to know about the supplemental essay response options? How do I submit supplemental materials? Should I apply as a first-year student or as a transfer student? As an international student am I eligible for financial aid? International Student Voices Blogger Lamees Kareem '22 from Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, talks about community building with the International Student Association (ISA) and the Office of Pluralism and Leadership (OPAL). Read more about it in her blog post. Mathematics major Aaron Lit '19 from Kowloon, Hong Kong, uses fashion as a vehicle for promoting marine biodiversity. Read all about it in 3D Magazine. Jul Thomson '20 from Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, writes about her time on and off campus as she pursues a religion major. Follow Jul and other students having the Dartmouth experience on our Instagram channel (@dartmouthadmissions). Resources for International Students International students at Dartmouth enjoy access to a robust and varied group of services, programming, and other opportunities to enrich their experience at the College. Below are some of the resources available. Office of Visa and Immigration Services Once admitted, the College's Office of Visa and Immigration Services (OVIS) guides international students throughout the visa application process. Learn more about how OVIS supports international students, scholars, faculty, and staff on campus through immigration sponsorship on their website. Office of Pluralism and Leadership (OPAL) OPAL engages students in identity, community, and leadership development. It provides academic and sociocultural advising, designs and facilitates educational programs, and serves as advocates for all students and communities. They provide international student advising and programming, including International Pre-Orientation, International Student Mentoring, International Community Socials, and the International Friendship Family Program. International Student Association The Dartmouth International Students' Association (ISA) is a campus group that represents the interests of Dartmouth's international students and organizes campus-wide programming to promote international and intercultural understanding. The ISA fosters diversity and learning at Dartmouth by designing engaging events that further students intellectually and emotionally while supporting engagement with the greater Dartmouth community. Global Village Dartmouth's Global Village is a residential community offering an interdisciplinary, integrated learning experience that holistically equips students to thrive as ethical, engaged, and responsible world citizens and scholars. Living and learning together, residents of the Global Village aim to expand their worldview, hone their intercultural skills, and build relationships within a multicultural, multinational, and multidisciplinary community. Learn More about Dartmouth Related Links: Dartmouth Travel Schedule Contact Us King Scholars Information Ofer Scholars Information Featured on our Blog Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Life in a Living Learning Community As someone who's always loved arts and literature, I never really thought about what role they'd play in my college life as an Economics and Computer Science major. Amy Guan 2020 Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback