Skip to main content Colorado State University Admissions Visit Info Apply hamburger The Basics Information for Future Students Information for Counselors, Parents and Families Cost and Financial Aid What We Stand For The CSU Experience Academic programs This Amazing Location Campus Life The Value of a CSU Education Connect With CSU Request Info Find Your Counselor View Our Blog Contact Us COVID-19 Updates Visit Visits and Events Directions and Parking Virtual Tour Apply Applying to Colorado State Continuing Your Application Checking Your Application Status Graduate Student Admissions Admitted Students Blogs The hidden benefits of going to college A look at the more-elusive benefits of the college experience. Read More about: HOW YOU'LL GROW Advice to new students from CSU grads Who else would be better to give tips to students considering or starting their college journey at CSU? Read More about: TIPS TO REMEMBER 5 majors that nuture self-expression It’s been said that once you master the rules, you can break the rules. Read More about: EXPLORE THE MAJORS Recent Posts How I chose my major: Human Development and Family Studies 25 May, 2022 By CSU Community Member Meet Sophie, a Human Development and Family Studies grad, and learn how she found her path the the major, what she learned here, and beyond. Read More about: How I chose my major: Human Development and Family Studies 5 majors that can lead to careers in medicine 19 May, 2022 By Prairie Smallwood Want to work in a medical-related career after college, but wondering what your undergrad experience might look like and where it can lead? Read More about: 5 majors that can lead to careers in medicine Advice to new students from CSU grads 12 May, 2022 By Cassie Eliasson College graduates have been there, done that. So who else would be better to give tips to students starting their journey at CSU? Read More about: Advice to new students from CSU grads More posts The CSU Experience State-of-the-art spaces: Industrial Sciences Labs 19 Apr, 2022 By Prairie Smallwood Get a look at the Industrial Science labs, where Construction Management students get some serious hands-on learning in building. Read More about: State-of-the-art spaces: Industrial Sciences Labs State-of-the-art spaces: College of Business Gary B. Halley Finance Data Lab 29 Mar, 2022 By Prairie Smallwood In this state-of-the-art spaces feature, you’ll get a look at the College of Business’ finance data lab, where students learn investing. Read More about: State-of-the-art spaces: College of Business Gary B. Halley Finance Data Lab 4 academic clubs at CSU that support women 14 Mar, 2022 By Prairie Smallwood There are 500+ student clubs on campus, but here are four that can support women who need academic support and opportunities. Read More about: 4 academic clubs at CSU that support women More from: csu-experience All About Admissions A Ram’s Life: Insider Tips from Jamie 11 Feb, 2021 By CSU Community Member One of our student vloggers gives the inside scoop on applying, housing, and roommates. Read More about: A Ram’s Life: Insider Tips from Jamie I made my college choice without visiting campus. Here’s how I did it. 08 Feb, 2021 By CSU Community Member Choosing a college without being able to visit can be daunting. Here’s how this student made her decision from afar. Read More about: I made my college choice without visiting campus. Here’s how I did it. How to get the most out of virtual tours and events 12 Jan, 2021 By Nick Jurney Learn how to get the most out of the virtual tours and events offered by CSU, including virtual tours, webinars, and one-on-one appointments. Read More about: How to get the most out of virtual tours and events More from: application How Do I? Advice to new students from CSU grads 12 May, 2022 By Cassie Eliasson College graduates have been there, done that. So who else would be better to give tips to students starting their journey at CSU? Read More about: Advice to new students from CSU grads The hidden benefits of going to college 12 Apr, 2022 By Prairie Smallwood Beyond the degree, there are some more-elusive benefits to college that you may not have thought about yet. Read More about: The hidden benefits of going to college 3 ways to study abroad before you start classes at Colorado State 16 Feb, 2022 By Prairie Smallwood Think you have to wait to start college to study abroad? At CSU, students have three chances to learn abroad before classes even start. Read More about: 3 ways to study abroad before you start classes at Colorado State More from: how-do-i Academics How I chose my major: Human Development and Family Studies 25 May, 2022 By CSU Community Member Meet Sophie, a Human Development and Family Studies grad, and learn how she found her path the the major, what she learned here, and beyond. Read More about: How I chose my major: Human Development and Family Studies 5 majors that can lead to careers in medicine 19 May, 2022 By Prairie Smallwood Want to work in a medical-related career after college, but wondering what your undergrad experience might look like and where it can lead? Read More about: 5 majors that can lead to careers in medicine State-of-the-art spaces: Industrial Sciences Labs 19 Apr, 2022 By Prairie Smallwood Get a look at the Industrial Science labs, where Construction Management students get some serious hands-on learning in building. Read More about: State-of-the-art spaces: Industrial Sciences Labs More from: academics RamChat RamChat: Should I bring a car to campus? 17 Jan, 2020 By CSU Community Member Most first-year students don’t need to bring a car to campus. Here’s why. Read More about: RamChat: Should I bring a car to campus? RamChat: What should I know about orientation? 26 Feb, 2019 By Jill Baylis Get an inside look from a current student. Read More about: RamChat: What should I know about orientation? RamChat: Can I bike in the winter? 08 Feb, 2019 By Jill Baylis Biking in the winter is do-able with the right gear. Read More about: RamChat: Can I bike in the winter? More from: ramchat Categories The CSU Experience All About Admissions How Do I? Academics Student Vlogs Announcements Popular tags Financial Aid Transfer Housing Scholarships Campus Life Roommate Majors Get a monthly email of our newest blog posts Loading... An equal access and equal opportunity university. © 2022 Colorado State University #colostatebound Contact Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement