Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Apply > Decisions Admission Decisions All applications receive an individualized holistic review as part of the UT Austin admissions decision review process. Learn more about the UT Austin holistic review process. Applicants are notified of their decisions through MyStatus and by e-mail. Fall 2022 Freshman Decisions Each year we review completed applications to make admission decisions. When your decision has been made, you will be notified by email that an update is available in MyStatus. Open each tab for additional information. More Information Types Timing Additional Questions Types Admit. Congratulations! You’ve been offered a place in the freshman class at The University of Texas at Austin and have been accepted to your requested major. You may submit your housing application and submit your enrollment deposit. Deferral. Due to the competitiveness of the applicant pool and limited space in high demand programs, some applicants who meet the priority deadline may receive a defer decision by February 1. These applicants will continue to be considered for admission based on the competitiveness of the applicant pool, and pending space availability. Students will receive a final decision no later than March 1. Denial. We regret that we are not able to offer admission at this time. Some applicants apply for transfer admission after beginning their studies elsewhere. Note: Some Texas students who are not offered admission to UT Austin may be invited to be part of the Coordinated Admission Program (CAP) or Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment (PACE), in preparation for admission to the university for a future term. Timing Admission decision notifications will be delivered via MyStatus. All students will receive an email when decisions are posted on an applicant’s MyStatus page. MyStatus information will include the admission decision, along with any important next steps. Complete your application by the November 1 priority deadline and receive an admission decision (or deferral) by February 1. Complete your application by the December 1 regular deadline and receive a final admission decision no later than March 1. Additional Questions If I am eligible for automatic admission, when will I find out my college/major of admission? Texas students eligible for automatic admission will receive an admit decision to the university and receive notification of their college/major of admission as quickly as possible; however, college/major decisions may be delivered after the notification of admission to the university is delivered. Please note that due to the competitiveness of the applicant pool and limited space in high demand programs, students may be offered admission to an alternate college/major. When can I accept my admission? Students can accept their offers of admission as soon as they are notified through MyStatus that they have been admitted to the university or to a specific major. Even automatically admitted students who are still being considered for their requested major can accept admission. Where do I go if I have questions? If you have questions or need advice about your admission offer, we’re here to help! You can call 512-475-7399 to speak to one of our admission counselors, email admissions@austin.utexas.edu or contact the admissions center closest to you. Automatic Admission Decisions Texas law offers eligible applicants automatic admission to public colleges and universities. Automatic admission to UT Austin is available to top 6% freshman applicants from Texas high schools for summer/fall 2021 and spring 2022. Open each tab for additional information. More Information Freshman Admission Transfer Admission Freshman Admission The initial legislation, passed into law in 1997, offered automatic admission to eligible students in the top 10 percent of their high school class. In 2009, the law was modified for The University of Texas at Austin. Under the new law, the university must automatically admit enough students to fill 75 percent of available Texas resident spaces. Each fall, the university notifies Texas school officials of the class rank that current high school juniors need to attain by the end of their junior year in order to be automatically admitted. Summer/Fall 2017 and Spring 2018 applicants: Top 7% Summer/Fall 2018 and Spring 2019 applicants: Top 7% Summer/Fall 2019 and Spring 2020 applicants: Top 6% Summer/Fall 2020 and Spring 2021 applicants: Top 6% Summer/Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 applicants: Top 6% Summer/Fall 2022 and Spring 2023 applicants: Top 6% Summer/Fall 2023 and Spring 2024 applicants: Top 6% The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board establishes the rules that govern which students are eligible for automatic admission. Even applications from students who are automatically admissible are subject to holistic review to determine the major to which the applicant will be admitted. Transfer Admission Some students who graduate from Texas high schools qualify for automatic transfer admission. To be eligible, you must: Have graduated from high school in 2008 or later Qualify based on Texas law for automatic freshman admission to a Texas university Enroll at a Texas community or junior college after you graduate from high school Complete the core curriculum at a Texas public junior college or other Texas public or private lower-division institution of higher education Earn a cumulative GPA of at least 2.5 on a four-point scale (or the equivalent) Apply for transfer admission to a term no later than four years after the academic year (e.g. 2014-15) in which you graduated from high school Requesting Automatic Transfer Admission If you want to be considered for automatic transfer admission, check the box on the ApplyTexas application to indicate that you believe you qualify. In addition to the regular application requirements, you must submit: A completed Automatic Transfer Admission Form An official high school transcript indicating your class rank at graduation An official college transcript indicating your completion of the core curriculum After you apply, refer to MyStatus for additional details about your automatic transfer admission status. If you have additional questions about admission to The University of Texas at Austin, please contact the Office of Admissions at 512-475-7399 to speak with an admissions counselor. Appeals Students interested in submitting an appeal related to their admission decision or an admission deadline may contact the Office of Admissions for assistance. Timing for Decisions We review each application individually and consider each in relation to the admission factors for the university and for the college, school and major(s) to which you apply. As a result, some decisions will be released earlier than others. Generally, you will receive a decision no later than: Summer/Fall (Freshmen): Priority February 1 For students who meet the November 1 priority application deadline; some decisions may be deferred to the regular decision date. Regular March 1 For students who meet the December 1 regular application deadline and priority applicants whose decisions were deferred. Summer/Fall (Transfers): June 15 International Applicants: Late May Spring (Freshmen + Transfers): Mid-January Most decisions released in November International Applicants: Mid-November Once we make a decision about your application, it will post to MyStatus. Next: Back to Apply Go to Admission Honors Housing admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022