Jump to content Apply Visit Give Navigation Admissions Search form Search Main menu Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Sociology Undergraduate degrees: BA or BS Undergraduate Minor About the Major Sociology is the systematic study of human groups and societies -- how they develop, how they are structured, and how they function. Like human society itself, the field of sociology is extremely broad. Sociologists study the social world, from small groups of friends and families, to formal organizations, such as universities and corporations, to entire nations. We look at social relationships and interactions, at power and conflict, at structures that hold societies together, and at how societies change. Hands-on learning and applied sociology are key aspects of our program. Options available to students include, but are not limited to participating in the Inside/Out Program partnered with a class at Oregon State Penitentiary, the Sociology Honors program where students produce their own research and write a thesis, presenting original research at the Undergraduate Research Symposium, a wide variety of community outreach and research internships, peer advising and mentoring, and more. Career Opportunities An undergraduate degree in sociology provides a breadth of knowledge that helps students excel in positions throughout the business, social service, and government arenas. The research and interviewing techniques you learn will serve you well in areas from journalism to human services and social work to education. Sociology provides a strong base for further education in business or medical school, and some students may pursue future graduate work in sociology to become a professor, researcher, or applied sociologist. Recent graduates became lawyers, teachers, librarians, professors, filmmakers, administrators and managers in the private and public sectors, professional athletes, founded and directed nonprofits or founded businesses. Learn More Resources Find Your Counselor UO Facts Campus Safety Residency En Español RESOURCES Campus Safety En Español Find Your Counselor Forms Regional Accreditation Request Info Status Portal Admissions 1217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Oregon Hall P: 800-BE-A-DUCK F: 541-346-5815 P: 541-346-3201 - Text Contact Us admissions@uoregon.edu Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Visit us on Instagram Accessibility Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination. Site Navigation Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Take Action Apply Visit Give