Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Pause Visit the UW Gorgeous architecture. Ten thousand trees. Views of Lake Washington and Mount Rainier. The UW is a scenic oasis in an urban setting, where you can study under cherry blossoms, paddle a kayak after class, watch a waterfront football game or read all afternoon in a spectacular library that may remind you of Hogwarts. Drumheller Fountain #1 Most Picturesque College Fountain in the U.S. — LawnStarter, 2015 "This campus should be on a postcard." 8 Most Beautiful College Campuses in the U.S.A. — Travel & Leisure, 2018 #2 MOST BEAUTIFUL CAMPUS IN AUTUMN — Best College Reviews, 2021 HUSKY STADIUM The most scenic venue in college football Is also one of the largest and loudest. WƎⱢƎBʔALTXʷ – INTELLECTUAL HOUSE  A longhouse-style learning and gathering space for American Indian and Alaska Native students, faculty and staff — and the broader UW community. THE QUAD The glorious Yoshino cherry trees are so famous, they have their own live cam and Twitter account. RAINIER VISTA The view of "The Fountain and The Mountain" from Rainier Vista is unmatched for its grandeur and beauty. PACCAR HALL Housing the Foster School of Business, PACCAR Hall embodies the school’s focus on leadership development, strategic thinking and collaboration. Suzzallo Library This Gothic-style library is an architectural marvel. It may not truly be Hogwarts, but it sure is magical. RED SQUARE The epicenter of campus life, Red Square takes its name from the reddish-brown bricks that compose it. THE QUAD In the fall and spring, it's the perfect place to relax or play. WILLAM H. GATES HALL Home to UW Law, with six stories of naturally lit space, art collections, the largest library in the Northwest and high-tech "smart" classrooms. MEMORIAL WAY Lined with 58 London plane trees commemorating those who died in WWI, Memorial Way is a majestic entrance to campus. WHERE IT'S ALL HAPPENING From outdoor adventure to the cutting edge of new tech, the UW campus is a springboard for everything Seattle has to offer — and beyond. THE HUB The Husky Union Building is a bustling center of student activities, games, student services, food and much more. Campus tours Come see for yourself! Whether you want to visit in person or take a virtual tour, we have three ways to show you around. IN-PERSON TOUR Sign up for a 75-minute student-led tour to see all the campus highlights. VIRTUAL TOUR Experience 360° virtual tours of the UW campus. VIDEO TOURS View videos featuring campus highlights, housing and student perspectives. Tour guides What’s it really like to attend the UW? Our guides will show you campus from the student’s perspective. Meet the tour guides Events Looking for other ways to connect with the UW? Find out about upcoming events through the Office of Admissions. Save the date! March 26 is Admitted Student Preview. Find more events Join the email list! You’ll get tips from our Admissions team on: How to submit the strongest application Important deadlines Majors and academic programs Campus tours and UW events in your area Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA