Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / News Article Imported Four professors receive Tulane 2022 teaching awards May 23, 2022 - 11:15am | Tulane Today staff today@tulane.edu During Commencement 2022, four Tulane University faculty received university-wide teaching awards – two Weiss Presidential Fellowships for Undergraduate Teaching and two President’s Awards for Excellence in Graduate and Professional Teaching. The 2022 Weiss Fellows are Michelle Foa, associate professor of art history in the Newcomb Art Department in the School of Liberal Arts and a Carnegie Professor at the Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking, and Tiffany Lin, associate professor of architecture and design program director at the School of Architecture. The recipients of 2022 President’s Awards for Excellence in Graduate and Professional Teaching are Alessandra Bazzano, associate professor at the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Carnegie Corporation of New York Professor of Social Entrepreneurship at the Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking, and director of the Tulane Center of Excellence in Maternal and Child Health, and Guadalupe García, associate professor in the Department of History at the School of Liberal Arts. Michelle Foa, associate professor of art history in the Newcomb Art Department in the School of Liberal Arts and a Carnegie Professor at the Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking. (Photo by Paula Burch-Celentano), Tiffany Lin, associate professor of architecture and design program director at the School of Architecture. (Photo by Paula Burch-Celentano), Alessandra Bazzano, associate professor at the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Carnegie Corporation of New York Professor of Social Entrepreneurship at the Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking, and director of the Tulane Center of Excellence in Maternal and Child Health. (Photo by Rusty Costanza), Guadalupe García, associate professor in the Department of History at the School of Liberal Arts. (Photo by Rusty Costanza) Link to Tulane Home Page Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University