Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions » First-Year Students Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Virtual Oregon State - Live Events Welcome to Oregon State University's virtual prospective student events page! Use the categories below to access all events designed to help you Explore OSU from home! If you don't find an event that fits your schedule, take a look at our archive of on-demand virtual options. Campus & Admissions Transfer Students Academics & Colleges Student Life Campus & Admissions Events Virtual Guided Campus Tours Sign up for a Corvallis virtual guided campus tour given by our student TOUR Ambassadors! We have unique tours for prospective first-year students and students who are transferring to OSU from another college/university. ¡La información sobre recorridos y admisiones está disponible en español! Regístrese para visitar virtualmente y conocer a nuestros consejeros y estudiantes bilingües. (Tours and admissions information is available in Spanish! Sign up to virtually visit and meet our bilingual counselors and students.) First-Year Student Registration Transfer Students Registration Presented by: https://visitosu.oregonstate.edu/ Intro to OSU Join us for a virtual event that introduces you to Oregon State through a brief video, a presentation covering undergraduate admissions processes/requirements and scholarship information, and a Q&A panel with current student TOUR Ambassadors. Register Now Presented by: https://visitosu.oregonstate.edu/ Virtual Admitted Student Webinar Congratulations on your admission to Oregon State University! So what's next? Join us (virtually) to learn about your next steps as a recently admitted student for fall 2022. We'll talk about information and to-dos in your Beaver Basecamp portal, information about financial aid and scholarships, submitting transcripts, living and dining on campus, and more. You'll also have the opportunity to ask questions you may have. We can't wait to see you there and welcome you to Beaver Nation! Register Now Presented by: https://admissions.oregonstate.edu/ Degree Partnership Program Information The Degree Partnership Program (DPP) is a program that allows you to take advantage of opportunities at OSU and any of our 20 community college partners located in Oregon or Hawai'i. You can take classes at OSU, the community college or both and get both the financial aid and benefits of both colleges at OSU. Hear about how the program works and how it can save you time and money in completing your education goals. Register Now Presented by: https://partnerships.oregonstate.edu/ Virtual Group Visits The Welcome Center at Oregon State University can provide virtual information sessions and virtual tours to prospective student groups from high schools and/or community colleges. You can customize the length and content of your virtual group visit using our registration form. Register Now Presented by: https://visitosu.oregonstate.edu/ Learn About Our OSU-Cascades Campus Come check us out — virtually! Attend a live online session to get an overview of OSU-Cascades. Learn about our active campus community, campus expansion, academic programs, and how to prepare to apply. Q&A will be offered as part of the program. Register Now Presented by: https://osucascades.edu/ Transfer Student Events Application Workshops Learn more about the transfer process and get your application questions answered by our Transfer Admissions staff! You can send in questions to be answered in real-time during this virtual presentation. Register Now Presented by: https://transfer.oregonstate.edu/ Taller de información sobre Transferencia y aplicación Acompáñenos en uno de nuestros talleres de solicitud e información de transferencia que tendrá lugar este otoño para obtener más información sobre el proceso de transferencia y obtener respuestas a sus preguntas de solicitud por parte de nuestro personal de Admisiones de transferencia. Puede enviar preguntas para que sean respondidas en tiempo real durante esta presentación virtual. Regístrate ahora Presentado por: https://transfer.oregonstate.edu/ Wednesdays with the Colleges Meet virtually with representatives from Oregon State University's academic colleges and learn more about majors, programs, resources, and the transfer admissions process. Register Now Presented by: https://transfer.oregonstate.edu/ Virtual Guided Campus Tour for Transfer Students During the virtual campus tour, student TOUR Ambassadors will show you around the campus and share their personal stories and information about Oregon State. You’ll also be able to ask questions to TOUR Ambassadors as they guide you throughout campus. Register Now Presented by: https://visitosu.oregonstate.edu/ Virtual Transfer Info Session This virtual presentation will cover general transfer admissions information including how to apply to OSU, important dates and deadlines, what to expect in the transfer process, scholarship and financial aid information, and information on campus life. Students wishing to have individualized conversations about their desired program or transfer coursework should make an appointment to speak to a transfer counselor. Register Now Presented by: https://partnerships.oregonstate.edu/ Degree Partnership Program Information The Degree Partnership Program (DPP) is a program that allows you to take advantage of opportunities at OSU and any of our 20 community college partners located in Oregon or Hawai'i. You can take classes at OSU, the community college or both and get both the financial aid and benefits of both colleges at OSU. Hear about how the program works and how it can save you time and money in completing your education goals. Register Now Presented by: https://partnerships.oregonstate.edu/ College and Academic Events College of Agricultural Sciences CAS Preview Session Learn about the College of Agricultural Sciences academic programs, opportunities for engagement and experiential learning, and more. Current students will share their experiences and answer questions about what it's like to be a Beaver! Register Now Natural Sciences Tour Learn about three colleges and the opportunities in the College of Agricultural Sciences; the College of Earth, Ocean, & Atmospheric Sciences; and the College of Forestry. We’ll cover majors, experiential learning opportunities, faculty specialties and student success stories. Register Now Presented by: https://agsci.oregonstate.edu/ College of Business College of Business Virtual Info Session Learn about the business and design majors, clubs and organizations, and professional development opportunities you will have as a College of Business student. Hear firsthand how our students jump into business during their first year, through our immersive and hands-on first-year experience program. Come curious! Register Now College of Business WEBINAR SERIES The College of Business hosts a series of webinars on different topics. From the first-year experience to learning the right tools to plan and pay for college, we encourage you to check out each webinar and attend those that interest you! Register Now CONNECT ON INSTAGRAM LIVE Join current College of Business student ambassadors via Instagram Live as they share their experiences and teach you more about the College of Business. There will be plenty of time to get your questions answered. Follow us on Instagram, @osubusiness, to keep up-to-date with upcoming Instagram Live events. Follow us on Instagram Contact Us with Specific Questions The College of Business is here to support you every step of the way - from choosing your major, to picking the right courses, exploring your career options, or finding the right scholarship opportunities. If you have questions, please call/text 650-727-0145 or email [email protected]. If you are thinking of transferring to the College of Business, our transfer advisors, Caiden Marcus and Kate O'Brien, are here to help you plan ahead. They will help you find classes to take that will transfer to OSU and count towards your major, guide you in your planning for your upcoming transfer to the College of Business, and ensure you are up-to-date on current information and deadlines. Schedule an appointment with either of our transfer advisors through one of the links below: Appointment with Caiden Appointment with Kate Presented by: https://business.oregonstate.edu/ College of Earth, Ocean & Atmospheric Sciences College of Earth, Ocean & Atmospheric Sciences Virtual Info Session Students and families are welcome to attend this informational session to learn more about Oregon State University and the College of Earth, Ocean & Atmospheric Sciences (CEOAS). Learn about our five academic programs: Climate Science, Environmental Sciences, Geography and Geospatial Science, Geology, and Ocean Science. Register Now Natural Sciences Tour This virtual information session will introduce three different colleges. Learn about opportunities in the College of Agricultural Sciences; the College of Earth, Ocean, & Atmospheric Sciences; and the College of Forestry. You will learn about each college's academic majors, experiential learning opportunities, faculty specialties and student success stories. Register Now Contact Us with Specific Questions Do you have questions about attending Oregon State University and/or the College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences (CEOAS)? Please contact our office to schedule a one-on-one appointment with an Academic Advisor. We hope to see you in CEOAS! Presented by: https://ceoas.oregonstate.edu/ College of Education MEET VIRTUALLY WITH A COLLEGE OF EDUCATION REPRESENTATIVE The College of Education is here to support students on their journey to becoming an educator. If you have questions about our college and programs, drop-in or schedule a virtual meeting with one of our College of Education Ambassadors. Ambassadors can share specific details about our Education Double Degree program available at the Corvallis Campus, scholarship opportunities, student resources, and more! For detailed information and next steps, go to https://education.oregonstate.edu/peer-advising-and-tutoring. CONTACT US WITH SPECIFIC QUESTIONS If you are a transfer student or have additional questions after meeting with an ambassador, you can schedule an appointment with an Education advisor by clicking on the button below. You can also contact College of Education Student Services at [email protected] or 541-737-4661. Schedule an appointment College of Engineering College of Engineering Virtual Tour Join current engineering students as they talk about resources available to engineering students, describe engineering student organizations, and explain how to get involved in the college. Student Ambassadors will also be answering any questions attendees may have about the College of Engineering! Register Now Contact Us with Specific Questions We know that researching prospective universities can be challenging. We’re always here to help answer your questions and make the application process easier. Please call us at 877.257.5182 or email at [email protected] with any questions. Presented by: https://engineering.oregonstate.edu/future-students College of Forestry Explore the College of Forestry Learn outside. Work outside. Make an impact! Explore the College of Forestry's top-ranked degree programs, research, experiential learning opportunities and facilities in this 30-minute session. Register Now College of Forestry TRAILHEAD: ADMITTED STUDENT EVENT Admitted students, want to know what's next down the trail? In this session, we'll explore the many experiential learning opportunities that await you in the College of Forestry. Learn about undergraduate research, study abroad programs, student clubs, internships and careers, and academic advising. Ask all your questions and meet current students and faculty so you can hit the ground running. Register Now Natural Sciences Tour This virtual information session will introduce three different colleges. Learn about opportunities in the College of Agricultural Sciences; the College of Earth, Ocean, & Atmospheric Sciences; and the College of Forestry. You will learn about each college's academic majors, experiential learning opportunities, faculty specialties and student success stories. Register Now Contact Us with Specific Questions If you have specific questions about the College of Forestry degrees and opportunities, Shannon, the College of Forestry Admissions Counselor, would love to talk with you! Click here to make an appointment with Shannon. Autumn, a College of Forestry academic advisor, is also able to set up appointments with prospective students on phone or Zoom! Click here to make an appointment with Autumn. Presented by: https://www.forestry.oregonstate.edu/ College of Liberal Arts REQUEST A VIRTUAL MEETING Are you interested in College of Liberal Arts (CLA) majors? Do you want to learn about opportunities within the college? Email [email protected] to set up a virtual appointment to learn more! Presented by: https://liberalarts.oregonstate.edu/ College of Public Health & Human Sciences set up a VIRTUAL appointment with the college of Public Health & Human SCIENCES Use the orange button below to schedule a 1:1 virtual appointment with our College Guide, Chad Kuwana. He can answer your questions about majors, transferring, course selection, careers, graduate school, etc. You can also reach out to him via email at [email protected]. Schedule an Appointment Presented by: https://health.oregonstate.edu/ College of Science College of Science Virtual Tour Experience the College of Science firsthand by scheduling a virtual tour. Your tour will be narrated largely by our Peer Advisors, students who also work for the college to help create an unforgettable college experience for their peers. Register Now College of Science "ASK ME ANYTHING" These recorded sessions help answer specific questions about College of Science major requirements, student life and numerous opportunities available in each of our programs. Click below to view recordings of previous Q&A sessions! Watch Now Contact Us with Specific Questions The College of Science is here to answer any specific questions you may have. You can talk with a Science Peer Advisor in the College of Science. The Science Success Center is open weekdays from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Thursday, and from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Fridays. Email the peers at [email protected]. Presented by: https://science.oregonstate.edu/admissions Honors College What is the Honors College? Information for Prospective Students & Families Explore the OSU Honors College and hear from current student ambassadors. Learn about the Honors College, the requirements, the opportunities & benefits, and how to apply! Register Now Contact Us with Specific Questions If you have specific questions about the Honors College, we encourage you to get in touch with us. Contact us directly by calling 541-737-6400 or emailing [email protected] Presented by: https://honors.oregonstate.edu/ University Exploratory Studies: Exploring OSU’s Colleges & Majors With more than 200 majors and options to choose from, we know it can be hard to decide the best match for you at Oregon State! To set up a virtual 1:1 appointment with a University Exploratory Studies Program (UESP) Advisor to talk about your academic options, click the button below or call the UESP office at 541-737-8144. Schedule an appointment Presented by: https://uesp.oregonstate.edu/ Student Life on Campus Events Diversity Events Oregon State University is committed to supporting students from all backgrounds and identities. Click the button below to visit a page listing a variety of virtual events that are created for specific student populations and communities. As you learn about Oregon State, we encourage you to learn about all the resources we have to offer students from historically marginalized backgrounds. Click here Presented by: https://admissions.oregonstate.edu/diversity Go Beavs! Go Greek! Fraternity & Sorority Life Information Joining a fraternity or sorority can be one of the best decisions of your college career. Oregon State's fraternities and sororities provide their members with belonging, leadership experience, and opportunities to give back to their communities. To learn more about the OSU Greek experience and why you should Go Greek, feel free to email the Center for Fraternity & Sorority Life with any questions, or click the button below to learn more about opportunities to join our organizations! Learn how to join! Presented by: https://studentlife.oregonstate.edu/cfsl Visits and Events Visits and Events Main Page In-Person Daily Tours In-Person Vaccination Requirements Virtual Oregon State: Live Events Virtual Oregon State: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Counselor Huddles About Corvallis OSU Events Calendar Virtual Tour Options Virtual Tour promo-guidebook-01.jpg Social Media Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram