Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Medical School Admissions Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Search Medical School Admissions Tsikata Apenyo MD’23 Biography Tsikata Apenyo describes his accent as “an eclectic combination of drawls from Maryland’s Chesapeake shores, Mississippi’s delta, Los Angeles’ beaches, the forests of the Pacific Northwest, and Ghana’s history of English colonialism.” But even as he moved around, one constant in his life was medicine. From the physicians and pharmacists in his family to the health care struggles of his Mississippi neighbors, Tsikata saw from an early age how he could make a difference in people’s lives. He became an EMT, and volunteered at a crisis hotline at the University of Portland, where he studied biology and chemistry and joined ROTC. After graduating he moved to China, where he taught English as a Fulbright fellow. The experience gave him new insights into his future career. “Recognizing patterns in human behavior and developing relationships are central to both teaching and medicine,” he says. Tsikata enthusiastically embraced The Warren Alpert Medical School’s many opportunities, like volunteering for the Student National Medical Association and Rhode Island Free Clinic, co-leading preclinical electives, and doing cardiology research. He also responded to COVID-19 with the Rhode Island National Guard and continues to play intramural sports. Now a commissioned officer, Tsikata says military service is a way to give back to his country and his fellow soldiers; he aspires to a role in governmental public health. “I see health policy as the greatest way I can make a lasting impact,” he says. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Tsikata Apenyo MD’23 Open details for Tsikata Apenyo MD’23 Bookmark this Page