Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Medical School Admissions Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Search Medical School Admissions David Loftus MD’23 Biography David Loftus grew up near Syracuse, NY, as a competitive skier, traveling internationally to train and compete. But alongside his drive to win was a drive to serve. He earned a ROTC scholarship to Boston College, majoring in Islamic civilization and societies and minoring in Arabic, and upon graduating was commissioned in the Navy. An intelligence officer, David’s deployments included a Joint Special Operations Task Force in the Middle East. “My final work in nuclear strategic planning and operations drove me to reconsider how best I could serve others,” he says. “Medicine offered a path to a service-based vocation that sought active betterment of lives rather than the safeguarding of them through the specter of violence.” David had fulfilled some premed requirements as an undergrad, and took the remaining courses at a community college and local university. He liked The Warren Alpert Medical School for its “welcoming and student-centric educational environment” and the diverse backgrounds of its students. “It is the most stimulating group of educators, students, and professionals I have ever been a part of,” he adds. Now in his second year, David volunteers with the Teddy Bear Clinic, visiting Providence elementary schools to teach kids healthy habits and what it’s like to go to the doctor’s office. Proficient in Arabic, he’s the leader of the Introduction to Medical Arabic preclinical elective. He continues to serve in the Navy Reserve as a lieutenant. And he’s still skiing, in addition to other outdoor sports like mountain biking, in his free time—a luxury he believes he might not have elsewhere. “Brown respects and tries more than other programs to value and account for [students’ free time],” David says. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search David Loftus MD’23 Open details for David Loftus MD’23 Bookmark this Page