Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Tour Visit Apply × Close Menu Affordability at TU Apply Apply First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Graduate Applicants Law Applicants Other Students Credit By Exam Financial Aid Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Free Application for Federal Student Aid Visit Campus Visit Campus Academic Webinars Plan Your Individual Visit Preview TU Group Visits University Ambassadors Area Hotels Directions to Campus Maps Explore Tulsa Virtual Tour Special Programs Special Programs Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars Student Life Student Life International Student Services Housing & Dining Student Organizations Campus Recreation Career Services Health Center Student Accessibility New Student Programs Office of Student Affairs Find Your Admission Counselor Request Information Quick Links News Events Calendar Maps Athletics Contact TU Information For... Future Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Veteran Students Undergraduate Students International Students Graduate Students Law Students Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How do I interview for admission? Where is the new student checklist? How do I schedule a visit? What majors are offered? How much does TU cost? How can I transfer to TU? Close Search Link to site home page Office of Admission > International Admission > International Student Scholarships International Student Scholarships INTERNATIONAL ADMISSION International Undergraduate Application Checklist Transcript Evaluation English Proficiency Requirement Tuition, Fees and Expenses International Student Scholarships Transfer Credits Frequently Asked Questions All international undergraduate applicants are eligible for the merit-based, International Leadership Scholarship. Academic performance, extracurricular activities, and leadership experience are all considered when awarding this scholarship. It is renewable for up to four years. Recipients must maintain full-time enrollment and a minimum 2.0 cumulative GPA at The University of Tulsa. 2022-23 Academic Scholarships Monetary value listed is per year and are average amounts . Meeting the standards listed on this scholarship table does not guarantee any level of scholarship. GPA to be considered Amount 4.0+ $15,000 3.9-3.99 $12,000 3.75-3.89 $10,000 3.50-3.74 $9,000 3.25-3.49 $7,000 3.10-3.24 $6,000 0-3.09 $4,000 International students can participate in many of TU’s Special Programs and may also be eligible for these other scholarship opportunities. Richard Hojel Scholarship The Richard C. Hojel scholarship is a full tuition scholarship to study petroleum, mechanical, or electrical engineering, as well as students pursuing degrees in business. It is awarded once every four years to a student of Mexican citizenship, with priority given to applicants residing in Mexico. All qualified applicants will be considered; there is no additional application form. The Hojel Award is a gift to the University of Tulsa by the Hojel and Meinig families in memory of Richard C. Hojel, a distinguished alumnus and generous friend of the university. Esphahanian Scholarship The Nasser Esphahanian Memorial Scholarship is an endowment scholarship awarded once every four years to a student of Iranian citizenship that attended the majority of their high school (or equivalent) in Iranian Schools. This is a need based scholarship based on full-time enrollment. The scholarship was established by the Esphahanian family to advance crosscultural understanding between the people of the United States and the people of Iran. All Iranian undergraduate applicants are eligible for consideration, and there is no separate application process. Transfer Honors Scholarship New transfer applicants who were members of Phi Theta Kappa at a two-year college will be considered for this scholarship award. Eligibility is based upon a cumulative 3.5 GPA and at least 48 hours of transferable credit. This scholarship is valued at $22,000 per year and is renewable with maintenance of a minimum 2.0 cumulative GPA. Presidential Scholarship The TU Presidential Scholarship is the most prestigious academic merit award given by the university. The award is based on a number of factors, including exceptional performance in a rigorous college preparatory curriculum, ACT/SAT scores, demonstrated leadership and/or service. The Presidential Scholarship covers full tuition for four years (8 consecutive undergraduate semesters total, excluding summers). Consideration for the Presidential Scholarship also requires submission of a separate Special Programs Application, which must be received no later than January 15. Details on the scholarship and how to apply can be found here. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT