Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Student Activities You are here Home Student Life Student Activities About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Discover new opportunities and find your place at Temple. There’s never a dull moment at Temple University. You’ll always find something to do on campus—whether it’s heading to the gym, checking out our different clubs or attending your favorite sporting event, our students are always on the go. Discover the opportunities for you to get involved at Temple and stay connected with other students and the Temple community. Our Campuses Opportunities for Temple students are available across all of our campuses. No matter where you’re studying, there’s something for you. Explore student activities at Ambler Campus, Temple Rome and Temple University, Japan Campus (TUJ). Ambler Campus Temple Rome TUJ Contents Campus RecreationStudent OrganizationsAthletics Campus Recreation Staying active is important to our students and we have the facilities to make sure exercise can easily be worked into any student’s routine. Through sports clubs, group fitness, gyms and more, Campus Recreation at Temple offers a variety of options to stay active and have fun while doing so. https://campusrecreation.temple.edu/ Recreation Facilities Reopening Campus Recreation facilities will be open for the fall semester beginning on Aug. 23. Learn more about our hours of operation and how we're maintaining safety during this time. Recreation Facilities Reopening https://campusrecreation.temple.edu/fitness-wellness Recreation Resources Check out our list of recreation sources for tips on how to stay active, healthy and connected with the Temple community. Recreation Resources Photo Gallery View slideshow as list Close 1/7 2/7 3/7 4/7 5/7 6/7 7/7 Recreation Facilities We know that navigating your coursework and commitments can feel overwhelming at times. Recreation facilities are a great place for Owls to work out, de-stress, train and play. You can utilize cardio and weight training equipment, indoor and outdoor courts, rock climbing walls, swimming pools and more—right on Temple’s Main Campus. Aramark Student Training and Recreation (STAR) Complex Geasey Outdoor Field Complex IBC Student Recreation Center Pearson and McGonigle Halls Temple Sports Complex The STAR Complex is known for its rock climbing wall, state-of-the-art weight room, and a two-lane, 1/4-mile outdoor jogging track that surrounds the facility. It is located at the corner of 15th Street and Montgomery Avenue. Take a look around the STAR Complex and see all this facility offers. Located on 15th Street, the Geasey Outdoor Field Complex consists of a volleyball court, tennis courts, multipurpose courts and a turf complex used by intramurals and club sports. Our newly renovated IBC Student Recreation Center provides patrons with a variety of quality recreational opportunities and is the primary area for general fitness activities and programs. The entrance to the center is off 15th Street and across from the parking garage. At Pearson and McGonigle Halls, you can head up to the third floor recreation courts for basketball, badminton, volleyball and a golf driving range, or you can go down to the basement to access our swimming pools. It is located at 1800 N. Broad St. The Temple Sports Complex features the following two playing surfaces, which are the northern field, located on Master Street near Broad, and the southern field, located at the intersection of Girard and Watts. The complex provides much-needed space for intramural and club sports, such as field hockey, lacrosse, soccer and ultimate frisbee. The facility has full lights over the entire complex, so students can utilize the space for night games and activities. If you’re a full-time student, all you need is your OWLcard or OWLcard Mobile to swipe or scan into one of our facilities and access all the equipment, classes and amenities Campus Recreation has to offer. Recreation Programs We offer a variety of recreation programs for students to stay active, meet awesome people and make new friends—from group fitness sessions to intramural and competitive club sports. Contact For more information on Campus Recreation, contact campusrec@temple.edu. Return to top https://campusrecreation.temple.edu/ Intramural and Club Sports Temple offers students a variety of club sports activities and contact intramural leagues. Visit the Campus Recreation website for an updated list of intramural programs that may be offered this fall. Intramural and Club Sports https://www.imleagues.com/spa/fitness/cb0b3a46ad6d4161949dbe059090a034/home Group Fitness Classes Campus Recreation is planning on offering in person Group Fitness sessions for the fall semester. Led by certified staff, sessions include yoga, cycling, Zumba, high-intensity interval training and more. Group Fitness Classes Student Organizations We know that part of the student experience is finding pathways toward growing and expanding your interests, reaching your goals, and meeting your peers. Temple is home to hundreds of student clubs and organizations that provide opportunities for you to join, lead, make friends and connect with the community. There is a group for everyone and every interest—artistic, athletic, educational, multicultural, musical, pre-professional, political, religious, service-oriented and more. And if we don’t have what you’re looking for, you can start it yourself by registering an organization. Start exploring by taking a look around our Student Center—which is home to our student activities, clubs and organizations—or learn more about some of the different types of student organizations we have to offer. Professional Development Gain leadership skills, make professional connections and prepare yourself for success by joining one of our professional development organizations. A few of the professional development organizations you can join include the following. Black Professional Health Association Coalition for Health Advocacy Through Multidisciplinary Problem-Solving Future Business Leaders of America International Business Association Native American and Indigenous Studies at Temple Public Relations Student Society of America Society of Women Engineers The Office of Leadership Development Political Interests Our political student organizations allow you to engage in open political discussions with peers, advocate for issues impacting our campus and create positive change in the Temple community and beyond. Some of the organizations available at Temple include the following. Be The Change Ignite at Temple U Political Science Society Student Power Network at Temple University Temple Student Government Culture and Identity Learn about different cultures, explore your identity, meet like-minded students and make new connections through our cultural and social organizations. Some student organizations you can join include the following. Black Student Union Cultural Connect Every Nation Campus Hillel at Temple University Language and Linguistics Club at Temple University LGBTQIA+ Check out our safe social spaces for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex and asexual (LGBTQIA+) students while exploring issues relevant to the larger community. Some of the student organizations available at Temple include the following. Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL) Pitch, Please Queer Student Union Queer People of Color Queer Film Collective Sustainability Join forces with other students and discuss methods of sustainable living, advocate to protect the environment, and work toward a healthier and more eco-friendly community. Learn more about the sustainability organizations available at Temple include the following. Net Impact Temple Community Garden Temple University Ecological Eating Club Thrift and Flop at Temple University Tyler Bookbinding Club Media Meet, create and collaborate with students who are interested in film, photography, print, theater and more in the world of media. A few of the media organizations you can join include the following. Aperture Agency Film in Color Freely Magazine Insomnia Theater LatinX Media Association The Creative Writer's Commons https://temple.campuslabs.com/engage/organizations Student Organizations See the full list of student organizations at Temple and find the one that’s right for you. Student Organizations ARMY ROTC at Temple The Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) at Temple is a renowned leadership course that can be a part of your college curriculum. Being a student at Temple and learning to become a leader will make your college experience even richer and prepare you for the future. From scholarships to leadership development, there’s something for everyone—and the benefits last a lifetime. Learn more about Temple Army ROTC, and explore resources for military-affiliated students applying to Temple. Students at Temple are eligible to participate in training programs through agreements with other universities in Philadelphia. Those interested in the Air Force Reserve Officers’ Training Corps can participate in the program at Saint Joseph’s University, where all aerospace studies courses are held. Students interested in the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps can participate in the program at the University of Pennsylvania, where all naval science courses are held. Contact For more information about Temple University ROTC, contact Marc Young, the recruiting operation officer. Phone: 215-204-7482 Email: myoung01@temple.edu Temple University Bands Temple University Bands in the Boyer College of Music and Dance include the Wind Symphony, Symphonic Band, Collegiate Band, Diamond Marching and Basketball Bands and the Night Owls Campus Community Band. For more than 90 years, Temple’s bands have represented and supported the university at athletic events, performance halls and more. Students are welcome to join one of Temple’s bands—there’s an ensemble for all performance and interest levels. And, the Diamond Marching Band, Collegiate Band and Night Owls Campus Community band are open to students across all majors. https://boyer.temple.edu/about/academic-departments/instrumental-studies/instrum… Performance Opportunities Learn about Temple University Bands, how to audition for or join an ensemble, and more. https://boyer.temple.edu/about/academic-departments/instrumental-studies/instrum… Performance Opportunities Return to top Athletics Whether you’re at the court or in the stands, going to athletic events is one of the most exciting parts of the Temple experience. Students can get together, cheer on their favorite sports and show their Temple spirit. We’re home to 18 varsity sports teams. Although the upcoming season might look different for our athletic programs this year, the support and pride for our sports teams remains the same. Temple students are able to receive one free ticket to all home Football and Men's and Women's Basketball games based on availability. All other sports are not ticketed. Learn more about information related to student ticketing. Men's Teams Basketball Crew Cross country Football Golf Soccer Tennis Women's Teams Basketball Cross country Fencing Field hockey Gymnastics Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Tennis Track and field Volleyball Temple Cheerleading Cheer on your Temple Owls with the Temple University Cheerleading Team. The team consists of approximately 40 individuals who cheer at all Temple football games, men’s and women’s basketball games, and volleyball contests, as well as competing against other cheerleading teams at the annual UCA Collegiate National Championship in Orlando, Florida. Our Temple cheerleaders play an important role in generating energy, spirit and enthusiasm at all sporting events and appearances on and off campus. Learn more about what it means to be a cheerleader at Temple. Contact For more information about the team or upcoming events, please contact Jenna Komosinski, head coach of the Temple University Cheerleading Team. Email: templecheerleading@gmail.com Cherry Crusade Founded in 2005, the Cherry Crusade is an enthusiastic and passionate student organization of die-hard Temple University Athletics fans. Members take their support of Temple athletics to the next level by promoting games and special events on and around campus. Cherry Crusade members lead the chants in the front rows of every game, making every Temple sporting event an unforgettable experience. Diamond Gems Show your support at different sporting events with the Diamond Gems Dance Team. Made up of a group of talented athletes from all over the country, our Diamond Gems strive to entertain, energize and inspire everyone in attendance. You’ll find them at football games, men’s and women’s basketball games, volleyball matches or competing against other dance teams from across the country. Contact For more information on the Diamond Gems, please contact Jennifer Keller, the head coach of the Diamond Gems Dance Team. Email: templedanceteam@gmail.com Mya Sims ’20 Former Diamond Gem and current Philadelphia Eagles cheerleader After transferring to Temple at the end of her first year, Mya Sims was excited to call the Diamond Gems and Philadelphia her home. “Temple has their games at Lincoln Financial Field, and I had never previously had that kind of team performance in front of many fans like that. That’s one thing that's different at Temple—the chance to have that kind of interaction and engagement.” Learn More Interning with Athletics There’s more than meets the eye when it comes to running athletic programs, and you can experience it for yourself. An internship with Temple Athletics gives you a behind-the-scenes look of the Athletics Department, creates a unique college learning experience and prepares you for life after Temple. Contact If you’re interested in exploring internship opportunities with Temple Athletics, contact athletics@temple.edu for more information. Ameena Soliman ’17, ’18 Fox School of Business, Executive Master of Science, Sports Business After spending three years interning with Temple football, Ameena Soliman was ready to take on a career in pro-level athletics—first as a player personnel assistant with the NFL and now as a player personnel coordinator with the Philadelphia Eagles. “I just knew that I wanted to get involved somehow, so I made a phone call to Temple football.” Covering the Owls Through Student Media If you want to dive deeper into the world of Temple Athletics, your fellow Owls have you covered. Our student-run media organizations make it easy for you to get connected and stay up to date on all things Temple sports. You can watch highlights of the latest sporting event on OwlSports Update, tune into WHIP Radio for game recaps, read about the upcoming games in The Temple News and more. Learn more about how OwlSports Update, WHIP Radio and our other student media keeps you connected to Temple Athletics. Return to top https://owlsports.com/ Owl Sports See the latest updates, scores and schedules for all Owl Sports. Owl Sports https://www.temple.edu/life-at-temple/city-life/philadelphia Discover Philadelphia Learn more about Temple’s place in Philadelphia, and why studying here can lead to endless opportunities. Discover Philadelphia Back to Student Life Go back to Student LifeMore in Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info