Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Transfer Applicants The path to NC State is not always direct. About 20% of our students start their college career at another college or university. If you've already graduated from high school and begun your college education at another institution, you should apply as a transfer applicant. Not yet graduated from high school? You'll need to apply as a first-year applicant. If you are not a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, you'll need to apply as an international applicant. Prepare to Apply NC Community College Students Studying at a North Carolina Community College? We’ve mapped out the courses you need to be competitive to transfer. Start planning Plan your path – Once you identify which major you are interested in applying for, review our recommendations for competitive applicants to set yourself up to be competitive in the review process. See how your courses may transfer – Search our transfer course credit database to help you select courses that will transfer or to get an idea of how many credits you will bring with you to NC State. Earn credits – We recommend you have a minimum of 30 transferable college semester credit hours completed (or 45 quarter hours) before you apply to NC State. If you have less than 24 transferable college semester credit hours completed when you submit your application, not including dual enrollment coursework, we will request your high school transcript and SAT or ACT test scores along with your college transcript to complete your application. Review our deadlines – Transfer applicants can apply for fall admission or spring admission. The application becomes available in August. Make sure to pay attention to the additional requirements and timelines if you are applying for a studio-based major or the Agricultural Institute. How to Apply Apply Online Apply On Time Fall Admission Application Deadline: February 15 Spring Admission Application Deadline: October 1 Transfer students interested in a studio-based major must apply by November 1 to be considered. See my options Choose to apply through one of our three applications – we do not have a preference which application you choose. NC State Transfer App Common App Coalition App Pay the Fee A non-refundable application fee of $85 is required. If you think you may qualify for fee waiver, view fee waiver eligibility requirements and learn how to submit documentation here. Select a Major On the application, you’ll be asked to select a major based on your interests. We encourage you to review our recommendations for competitive applicants prior to applying. At NC State, we consider students for admission directly into the major they apply for. There is not an undeclared option for transfer applicants. Admitted students must take courses to meet the degree requirements for the major they have been admitted into for at least one year before considering or applying for a major change while at NC State. Some programs do not accept applications for spring entry. Students interested in a studio-based major (Architecture, Art & Design, Fashion & Textile Design, Graphic Design, Industrial Design) must apply by November 1 in addition to submitting a 10-piece portfolio and design essay. 100+ Major Options Recommendations for Competitive Applicants Complete the Essay Prompts Our transfer class is enriched by the different experiences our applicants bring to the table. We have some short answer questions on the application to help us get to know you better. These responses will be included in your application. Required Short Answer Questions Explain why you selected the academic program above and why you are interested in studying this program at NC State. NC State University is committed to building a just and inclusive community, one that does not tolerate unjust or inhumane treatment, and that denounces it, clearly and loudly. Please describe what those words mean to you and how you will contribute to a more diverse and inclusive NC State environment. Submit Your Transcripts Request an official transcript from each institution you have attended be sent directly to our office. Students with less than 30 transferable credits completed or who are under the age of 21 at the time they apply may be required to submit an official high school transcript and self-reported test scores. How To Be Competitive Learn what we take into consideration during application review and how to be a competitive applicant. Credit Opportunities Use our transfer credit database to see how your completed courses may provide you transfer credit at NC State. Military Resources Learn more about our three ROTC programs, military credit opportunities, active-duty military personnel fee waivers, and more. wolfPAW Already applied? Log in to wolfPAW, your applicant portal, to check your application status or view any missing items. Transfer Advisors Transfer students are essential to NC State’s success. That’s why we work closely with transfer advisors to make getting here as easy as possible. Explore the resources After You Apply Check Your Email Two weeks after you submit your application to NC State, you will receive an email with credentials to log in to wolfPAW, your applicant portal. Here, you can check for missing items and stay up-to-date on the status of your application. We encourage you to check your email often, as we may email you about additional items needed to complete your application. Using your school-assigned email address? Sometimes our emails may be blocked by the server, so we recommend using a non-school email to receive our communications. Submit the FAFSA You don’t need to wait for an official admission decision to submit your FAFSA, and we encourage students to apply as soon as possible. Priority filing date for NC State: March 1 NC State school code: 002972 View Your Decision You will be notified of your admission decision on your wolfPAW account. If you completed your application on time and submitted all required materials by the materials deadline, you will receive a decision on the notification date corresponding to the application deadline for the semester you applied for. Types of Decisions Admit– Some students we are able to admit right away. Head to our admitted student page to learn about next steps for joining the Wolfpack family. An official evaluation of your transferable credit will be provided to admitted students. Pending Current Grades– Applicants for fall admission may be requested to submit their current grades during the spring term to help us make a final decision. Waitlist– We are unable to admit all qualified students into our class. Some applicants are placed on the waitlist who we believe would be successful at NC State if space is available. Deny– Unfortunately, some students will not be considered competitive for transfer admission at this time. We encourage denied applicants to review our recommendations for competitive applicants or contact our office to discuss future options. Virtual Transfer Sessions Register for a virtual information session to learn more about what it takes to be a competitive transfer applicant. Register now Contact Our Office Have additional questions? Reach out to us. Connect with us Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.