Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Why Tulane custom css-js - global Why Tulane A Message From Our President Our History Tulane at a Glance Public Service Tulane Alumni Tulane offers its students one-of-a-kind learning experiences inside and outside of the classroom. Tulane graduates are uniquely prepared for the challenges of the real world. Our Core Curriculum: It's Different Like many colleges, Tulane requires its first-year students to take a freshman seminar. But we want our students to get off campus and explore their new home here in New Orleans through TIDES. Capped at just 15 students, the small size really allows you to get to know everyone, including the professor. TIDES is way more than just a core class; it’s a way to meet new people and make a name for yourself — both on campus and off. Our Campus: It's Different Since 1894, Tulane’s campus has been located in our current location in Uptown New Orleans, on historic St. Charles Avenue, across the street from the beautiful Audubon Park. Since then, our campus has grown to occupy 110 acres stretching 1.5 miles from the beginning of campus on St. Charles Avenue to the end on South Claiborne Avenue. Mature Live Oaks, Crape Myrtles, and Bald Cypress trees line our campus providing beauty and a subtle reminder that our campus was once marshland before its development over 100 years ago. Our campus features over 110 buildings, including 50 buildings dedicated to housing our 70 plus majors from our 5 undergraduate schools. A number of our graduate programs, including the Tulane Law School, are also housed on our Uptown campus. While Tulane is bounded by our physical location in New Orleans, we maintain a global campus with our emphasis on cultivating an international and multicultural climate on campus and engaging the global community through our study abroad programs. More than 30% of Tulane students study abroad as undergraduate through one of our partner programs in another country or through the Independent Scholar Program. Our Graduates: They're Different We set our graduates up for success through several undergraduate resources. The Career Services Center and its website HireTulaneGrads.com, which houses information and job postings for more than 1,600 companies A 1-credit Career Development Course: “Majors, Internships, and Jobs,” that teaches skills in résumé building, interview preparation, and professional social media Pre-Professional Advising for application and admission to law, medical, dental, physical therapy, and veterinary schools Accelerated graduate programs in Architecture, Business, or Public Health Earn an advanced degree in less time and at a significantly reduced tuition rate through one of 18 different 4+1 Master’s programs in the Liberal Arts and Science & Engineering Early entrance and guaranteed admission programs to Tulane Medicine and Tulane Law Our Way of Volunteering: It's Different Tulane was the first private research university in the nation to institute a public service requirement for graduation. Sure, we’re proud of this stat, but we’re even more proud of the fact that at Tulane, public service is qualitative instead of quantitative. It’s not about how many hours you spend volunteering. It’s about what you are doing and who you are helping. Video: "5 Reasons to Apply to Tulane" A Message From Our President Our History Tulane at a Glance Public Service Tulane Alumni Did You Know? Tulane was ranked the #40 Best National University by the U.S. News and World Report. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University