Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Undergraduate Admissions Admissions right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) right arrow down arrow Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow In-Person Campus Tour right arrow down arrow Visitor Guidelines Campus Parking and Walking Directions Group Visit Self-Guided Visit Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First NEXT Innovation Scholarship Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media Admissions » Apply Set Navigation title in component Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Apply We can't wait to welcome you into the Bearcat family! Please read the instructions carefully and select the appropriate application; your educational history and goals will determine which application is right for you. If you have questions, contact the Office of Admissions. First-year Applicants A first-year applicant is a student who is entering college directly from high school and/or has never attended a community college or university since graduating from high school. The University of Cincinnati is comprised of three campuses that offer different programs. Please do not submit applications for multiple Cincinnati campuses. If you are unsure which campus to choose, please contact the Office of Admissions for assistance. University of Cincinnati (Uptown campus) University of Cincinnati Blue Ash College (regional campus) University of Cincinnati Clermont College (regional campus) Uptown Campus Application Regional Campus Application Each year, some University of Cincinnati majors receive a high number of applications and will close to first-year students before the March 1 Rolling Admission Deadline. Review this year's list of closed programs for fall 2022 before beginning your application. Accelerated College English (ACE) Program Application The ACE Program is designed for students who would like to study at the University of Cincinnati but their English skills are not strong enough for direct admissions. ACE is a two semester program (one academic year) that provides English as a Second Language (ESL) courses while also taking major-based classes that will count as credit towards their UC degree. After successfully completing the ACE Program, students are guaranteed admission into their selected major. ACE Program Application International Conditional Application The University of Cincinnati offers students conditional admission in order to study the English language at our on-campus English Language Center (ELS) prior to taking UC classes. The Cincinnati ELS Language Center is located directly on the University of Cincinnati’s Main Campus. Students can easily transition to UC after completion. Conditional Application Transfer Applicants Students who have earned a high school diploma or GED and have attended another college or university since earning their high school credentials and are now seeking admission to a University of Cincinnati degree program. Transfer Application to Any Campus Early Childhood Education Online Students seeking admission to the Associate or Bachelor degree program offered online through the College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services. Early Childhood Education Online Application RN to BSN Online Please visit the nursing admissions web page for more information about deadlines and admission requirements. Applicants applying to the online RN to BSN program must apply through the University of Cincinnati’s Transfer Application and select the Clifton Campus. RN TO BSN APPLICATION Other Admissions Circumstances Transition Students If you are currently enrolled in a University of Cincinnati college and wish to apply for admission to a program in a different University of Cincinnati college, you are considered a transition student and should work with the Transfer & Transition Advising Center to complete the transition process. Readmission Application If you have attended the University of Cincinnati before and would like to attend again and have not attended any other institutions between your time at Cincinnati and now, you should complete the Application for Readmission. Non-degree Seeking Students If you would like to take classes but not earn a degree, you should complete the Basic Data Form. Graduate Students If you are seeking admission to one of the University of Cincinnati's graduate programs, please visit The Graduate School website for more information. College Credit Plus (CCP) If you are a current high school student wishing to take classes at the University of Cincinnati as part of the College Credit Plus program, please visit the College Credit Plus website. Transition and Access Program (TAP) If you are a student interested in an inclusive college education, have an intellectual or developmental disability, and are seeking admission to a CTP certificate program to continue your academic, career, and independent living instruction to prepare for gainful employment please visit the TAP website for more information. Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top