Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Undergraduate Admissions Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy First-Year ApplicantsIt all starts here Transfer ApplicantsEasy transition Check Application Status Costs & Aid Apply for Aid Financial Aid Eligibility Costs to Attend Financial Aid Calculator Value of a Cornell Education Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Facts Frequently Asked Questions Cornell A-Z Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections You are here Home » Apply print share Facebook Twitter Apply You have lots of choices when it comes to colleges. If you are looking for a uniquely rewarding experience, think Cornell. In keeping with Ezra Cornell’s dynamic vision, here you will immerse yourself in both the liberal and the practical/applied arts and sciences. This rich complement of studies will be at the heart of your academic experience, as it always has been for our students. From electrical engineering to journalism, from hotel management to American history, at Cornell you have the freedom to explore and study what interests you most. Come live and learn amongst the more than 14,000 undergraduates from across the U.S. and 140 countries around the world. Experience for yourself what they already know. Any person, any study. Equal Education and Employment Opportunity Statement Cornell University has an enduring commitment to support equality of education and employment opportunity by affirming the value of diversity and by promoting an environment free from discrimination. Association with Cornell, either as a student, faculty, or staff member, involves participation in a free community where all people are recognized and rewarded on the basis of individual performance rather than on any aspect of one’s heritage, social identity, cultural background or happenstance of birth. Cornell University's history of diversity and inclusion encourages all students, faculty and staff to support a diverse and inclusive university in which to work, study, teach, research and serve. No person shall be denied admission to any educational program or activity or be denied employment on the basis of any legally protected status or subjected to prohibited discrimination involving, but not limited to, such factors as race, ethnic or national origin, citizenship and immigration status, color, sex/gender, pregnancy or pregnancy-related conditions, age, creed, religion, actual or perceived disability (including persons associated with such a person), arrest and/or conviction record, military or veteran status, sexual orientation, gender expression and/or identity, an individual’s genetic information, domestic violence victim status, familial status or marital status. Cornell University is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer. Concerns and complaints related to prohibited bias, discrimination, harassment, and sexual and related misconduct should be directed to the Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX; 500 Day Hall, Ithaca NY 14853; 607-255-2242; equity@cornell.edu or titleix@cornell.edu. Questions or complaints arising under Title IX should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Lauren Branchini; 500 Day Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853; 607-255-2242; titleix@cornell.edu. Information about how to report an incident or file a complaint is available at titleix.cornell.edu. Inquiries may also be directed to: U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights; 32 Old Slip 26th Floor, New York, NY 10005-2500; 646-428-3800; OCR.NewYork@ed.gov. Cornell University is committed to providing access and opportunity for disabled people to participate in their educational pursuit or employment. Information on services provided to prospective and current Cornell's disabled students can be obtained by contacting: Student Disability Services, Cornell Health, Level 5, Ithaca, New York 14853-6601; 607-254-4545. sds_cu@cornell.edu. Prospective employees in need of an accommodation during the application or recruitment process pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act or New York state law should contact: the Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX; 500 Day Hall, Ithaca NY 14853; 607-255-2242; equity@cornell.edu. Current employees in need of a workplace accommodation pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act or New York state law should contact: Medical Leaves Administration, Suite 130, 395 Pine Tree Road, Ithaca, NY 14850; 607-255-1177; wcds@cornell.edu. Approved by the Board of Trustees in May 2005. Last updated June 2021. First-Year Applicants+ Admission Requirements Application Checklist Check Application Status Tips on Applying Transfer Applicants+ Admission Requirements Check Application Status Tips on Applying Transfer Application Checklist International Applicants+ Application Information Contact an Admissions Representative Application Deadlines Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy Application Deadlines Contact Us From your first questions about Cornell to the completion of your application, the Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you find the information you need. Website Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. University Privacy Statement Undergraduate Admissions Office Cornell University 410 Thurston Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 admissions@cornell.edu Tel: 607.255.5241 Fax: 607.255.0659 © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment Admitted Students