Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Financial Aid Frequently asked questions about financial aid How can I learn more about financial aid at Brown? The best source of information about Financial Aid at Brown is our Office of Financial Aid website. Does Brown offer merit scholarships? Athletic scholarships? Eligibility for aid is based on financial need. As a member of the Ivy League, Brown does not offer aid based on academic achievement, athletic ability, or any other form of merit. What is your deadline for applying for financial aid? All of the deadlines and forms needed are detailed by the Office of Financial Aid. How much does it cost to attend Brown University? For the 2022-2023 academic year, the total of direct and indirect costs for new students is $84,986. Our financial aid policies are designed to enrich our campus community by ensuring that talented students who qualify for admission can come to Brown – regardless of their economic circumstances. We are committed to meeting 100% of demonstrated financial need for all eligible undergraduates as determined by Brown’s Office of Financial Aid. Are you need-blind for international applicants? We do not offer need-blind admission for international applicants. International students must apply for financial aid at the time they apply for admission to the University in order to be considered for financial aid during any academic year at Brown. However, if you are an admitted international applicant who applied for financial aid, you will receive financial assistance that meets 100% of your family's demonstrated need. Visit the Office of Financial Aid website for details. Are you need-blind for U.S. citizens and permanent residents? Brown practices need-blind admission for U.S. citizens and permanent residents. Visit the Office of Financial Aid website for more information. What forms do I need to submit in order to apply for financial aid? All of the deadlines and forms needed are detailed by the Office of Financial Aid. Does the amount of aid I will receive vary by whether I apply Early Decision or Regular Decision? The evaluation used to determine your eligibility for need based financial aid is the same, regardless of whether you apply under our Early Decision or Regular Decision admission plan. If I don’t apply for financial aid now, but my family’s financial situation changes, may I apply for financial aid after I enroll at Brown? If an international applicant has reason to believe that they will need assistance at any point during their time at Brown, then they must apply for financial aid at the time of their application for admission and meet all required financial aid deadlines. If you are an international applicant (a non-U.S. citizen or permanent resident) who does not receive financial aid at the time of admission, you will not be considered for aid at a later date. U.S. citizens and permanent residents who did not apply for financial aid at the time of admission and have a change in circumstances can apply for aid in later years. It is important to meet published application deadlines for the year the student will be applying for aid. Visit the Office of Financial Aid website for details. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Financial Aid Open details for Financial Aid Bookmark this Page