Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour UW NetID UW NetID Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Home Office of Admissions UW NetID Your UW NetID After you have applied for admission, you will receive an email invitation to create a UW NetID. Follow the instructions in the email you receive. If you are UW in the High School student, Foster applicant who took the WSA, Cascadia student or UW employee you likely already have a UW NetID and will need to use this link to join your existing account to your application rather than create a new one. Note: The instructions on this page are only for students who applied online to the Seattle campus of the UW. How to set up your UW NetID First, find the email and password you used when you applied online to the UW. Next, click the button below. Set up NetID The button above will take you to page that looks like the screenshot below. Enter your email and password used to apply to the UW here. If you deleted your Coalition account after submitting your freshman application, you will not be able to create your UW NetID using the link above. Contact the Admissions Office to request your PAC and system key. Logging in to MyUW If you’ve already created your UW NetID, use the MyUW login to access your application information. Remember, it can take up to 24 hours for your newly created account to display the correct information. Go to MyUW I already have a UW NetID I am a Cascadia student, UW employee, UW in the High School student or recently created a UW NetID for Foster admission exams. If you are a Cascadia student, UW employee, UW in the High School student or Foster applicant and have already created a UW NetID, please use this link to join your existing account to your application. Be sure to click “Sign in to verify your identity” and then sign in with the email and password you used to apply for admission. I already have a UW NetID and forgot my UW NetID password. If you already have a UW NetID and you forgot your password, you will need to reset it. Go to the UW NetID password reset page. Enter your UW NetID username and then choose a method to verify your identity. If you choose “Your UW Online Applicant for Admission Identity,” you will be asked to provide the email and password you used to apply online. I already have a UW NetID and forgot my UW NetID username. If you already have a UW NetID and you forgot your username, you will need to retrieve it. Go to the UW NetID username retrieval page, then click “Sign in to verify your identity” and use your application email and password to sign in. Once successful, you will see your UW NetID displayed at the top of the page. I am a UW in the high school student and MyUW thinks I'm a current student. If you are currently enrolled at the UW as a non-matriculated student, you may view your admission decision using this direct link. Frequently asked questions I just created my UW NetID, and signed into MyUW, but I don’t see my application. MyUW thinks I am a PCE student. Once you create a NetID, many processes update information about you and your affiliation with the university (as an applicant) into different data systems. Some of these systems update in minutes, some take overnight. If you just created your UW NetID, MyUW content might not be correct, because it doesn’t know you are an applicant yet. Please try again after 24 hours have passed. If you still do not see your application status, send an email to help@uw.edu. I can’t remember the email and password I used when I applied online. You will need the email and password you used to submit your online application to create your UW NetID. If you forgot your online application email or password, use the links provided in the email you received to get help. I’m using the right email and password from my online application but I’m not able to create my UW NetID. You must use the email and password from the account you used when you submitted your first online application to the UW. This can be a little tricky if you applied to more than one campus of the UW — Bothell, Seattle, Tacoma — and you used different online accounts. Do I need a system key and Private Access Code (PAC)? Most applicants will not need a system key or PAC, however, some applicants will. To be sure, wait for the email with instructions for setting up your UW NetID. I reset my online application password. If you reset the password for the account you used to apply online, you can still create a UW NetID. Double check that you have the correct email and password by logging back into your online application account activity. Once you can log in successfully, proceed to create a UW NetID. I applied online and have the right login info but can't proceed. If you know you applied online and you are using the correct email and password but cannot create a UW NetID, please contact the Office of Admissions. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA