Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site Science & Engineering Faculty Features World-Class Research. For Undergraduates. Undergraduates studying science and engineering at Yale have access to state-of-the-art laboratories and makerspaces, an expansive assortment of courses that allows for both breadth and depth, and the opportunity to work alongside dedicated faculty who are leaders in their fields. We asked six Yale faculty members share what makes Yale special for scientists and engineers. Watch the videos below to learn about research projects, special campus spaces and facilities, and opportunities for undergraduates to contribute to cutting-edge discoveries and innovations. Introduction Physics: Professor Sarah Demers Sarah Demers is the Horace D. Taft Associate Professor of Physics. Her research focuses on using tau leptons to probe for and characterize physics beyond the standard model at the ATLAS Experiment at CERN’s Large Hadron Collider. Recent courses for Yale undergraduates include The Physics of Dance, Being Human in STEM, and Science and Public Policy. Learn more about Professor Demers and her research at demerslab.yale.edu. Professor Demers: Physics Neuroscience: Dean Marvin Chun Marvin Chun is the Dean of Yale College, Richard M. Colgate Professor of Psychology, and Professor of Neuroscience. His research focuses on using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to study visual attention, memory, decision-making, perception, and performance. Recent courses for Yale undergraduates include Introduction to Psychology, and Mind, Brain, and Society. Learn more about Dean Chun and his research at www.marvinchun.com. Dean Chun: Neuroscience Biology & Medicine: Dean Sandy Chang Sandy Chang is the Yale College Associate Dean for Science & Quantitative Reasoning Education and Professor of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Laboratory Medicine, and Pathology. A graduate of Yale College, his research focuses on how telomeres are properly maintained to protect chromosome ends from engaging a DNA damage response. Current and recent courses for Yale undergraduates include Topics in Cancer Biology, Perspectives on Biological Research, Medical Impact of Basic Science, and Molecular Medicine. Learn more about Dr. Chang and his research at medicine.yale.edu/profile/s_chang/. Dean Chang: Medicine Astronomy: Professor Debra Fischer Debra Fischer is the Eugene Higgins Professor of Astronomy with secondary appointments in Statistics and Data Science and of Geology and Geophysics. Her research centers on exoplanets and instrumentation; she has discovered hundreds of exoplanets, including the first known multiple planet system in 1999. Current and recent courses for Yale undergraduates include Origins and the Search for Life in the Universe, Frontiers and Controversies in Astrophysics, and Exoplanets. Learn more about Professor Fischer and her research at exoplanets.astro.yale.edu. Professor Fischer: Astronomy Engineering & Applied Science: Dean Vincent Wilczynski Vincent Wilczynski is the Deputy Dean of the Yale School of Engineering & Applied Science and the James S. Tyler Director of the Yale Center for Engineering Innovation & Design. He helps plan and implement all academic initiatives and manages teaching and research resources and facilities at Yale SEAS. As Director of the CEID, he leads efforts to promote collaboration, creativity, design, and manufacturing activities at Yale’s makerspace. He teaches Introduction to Engineering, Innovation, and Design. Learn more about Dean Wilczynski and the CEID at ceid.yale.edu. Dean Wilczynski: Engineering & Applied Science Engineering & Applied Science: Dean Jeffrey Brock Jeffrey Brock is the Dean of the School of Engineering & Applied Science, Zhao and Ji Professor of Mathematics, and Faculty of Arts & Sciences Dean of Science. A graduate of Yale College, his research focuses on low dimensional geometry and topology. Learn more about Dean Brock and his research at jeffbrock.net. Dean Brock: Engineering & Applied Science VIRTUAL TOUR Explore Yale’s campus online. View Residential Colleges, science labs, athletics facilities, libraries, classrooms, and more. EXPLORE EVENTS Join an information session, student forum, or event featuring Yale and other colleges. SHARE YOUR RESEARCH Applicants with research experience may consider submitting a STEM Research Supplement. Learn more about supplementary materials. In This Section A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Related Links Majors and Academic Programs Undergraduate Research Science Virtual Tour Engineering Virtual Tour STARS: Science Technology and Research Scholars Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved