Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Enroll > Choosing Your Future Choosing Your Future You’ve visited the campuses. Read the brochures. Taken the tests. Written the essays. Submitted the apps. Now you can choose your future as a Longhorn and accept your offer today! What starts here changes the world. When you choose The University of Texas at Austin, you choose a world-class university — one with some of the world's top-ranked programs and a strong tradition of developing innovators, leaders and change-makers. You will be a valued member of our Longhorn community — a vibrant and diverse community of students and scholars who will help you pursue your passions. The Forty Acres is a special place for all of us, and we know it will be for you too as it serves as a launching pad to make your dreams a reality. There are so many reasons to choose UT Austin. As you make exciting decisions about your future, we encourage you to weigh factors like our academic quality, affordability, location, student life and opportunity. Experience UT Austin Firsthand One of the best ways to decide whether a campus is right for you is by exploring it in person. We invite you to experience campus for the first time … or if you’ve already visited the Forty Acres, we invite you to visit us again! Discover what UT Austin has to offer you over the next four years. Our campus visits offer the opportunity to learn more about the university’s history, get the lay of the land with a walking tour and more. Get your first (or second) hands-on look at Longhorn life by signing up today. Answers to Your Important Questions It can be helpful to talk to someone one-on-one about your future — about anything and everything from student organizations to financial aid and living on campus. Our admissions and financial aid counselors are available to help you get the information you need to finalize your plans for next year and choose your future as a Longhorn. Next Steps We can’t wait to welcome you to the Longhorn family. Consult our After-Admission Checklist to stay on track to join us on the Forty Acres in the fall! Quick Links Orientation Longhorn Readiness Next: Back to Enroll Go to Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022