Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Parents & Families Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Apply Home Apply Admission to majors Dates and deadlines Freshman How to apply Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Parents & Families Preparing for college Running Start Transfer How to apply Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Transfer GPA Transfer credit policies WA CC Equivalency Guide Transfer planning resources Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Postbaccalaureate How to apply Military Welcome, parents, families and student supporters. This page is for you! We look forward to answering your questions as you begin this journey, and we hope to one day welcome you to our UW family. Preparing for college Read our advice for making the most out of the high school curriculum. Find resources to explore and identify colleges through the search process. Attend a national college fair virtually or in-person. How to prepare for college Next steps Your student applied, now what? As students are waiting for admissions decisions to arrive, they often have time to think about their applications and what they could update. If your student finds themself in this situation, encourage them to review the I applied, now what page, which outlines what updates are accepted. When in doubt, have them contact their admissions counselor for more information. Note that changes to first- and/or second-choice requested major must be made by January 15. FAFSA/WASFA Priority application date - January 15 Does your student plan to apply for financial aid? Be sure to have them file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by January 15, 2022 in order to maximize their aid eligibility. Apply now Families living in Washington who are not eligible to file the FAFSA should complete the Washington Application for State Financial Aid (WASFA). For more information visit the Washington Student Achievement Council website. Admission decision timeline All freshman autumn applicants will be notified of their admission decision March 1-15, 2022. Decisions are released in batches and will be available to students on their MyUW during the notification window. Admitted students will also receive a welcome packet in the mail containing an official offer letter with assigned major, possible Purple & Gold scholarship offer (U.S. non-residents only) and other information about the next steps to becoming a Husky. Students invited to the waitlist will see their invitation on MyUW and will need to opt-in to the waitlist by April 1, 2022. Denied students will see their decision on MyUW. Visiting campus, online or in-person In-person campus tours are back, and we can’t wait to see you. Check out the tour schedule on our visit page. Not ready or able to make the trip to Seattle? Explore our virtual campus tour offerings. We also have a library of video tours. And, this spring, we invite admitted students and families to join us on Saturday, March 26, 2022 for Admitted Student Preview. Additional details and information will be sent to admitted students and families in March. Home Apply Admission to majors Dates and deadlines Freshman How to apply Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Parents & Families Preparing for college Running Start Transfer How to apply Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Transfer GPA Transfer credit policies WA CC Equivalency Guide Transfer planning resources Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Postbaccalaureate How to apply Military Resources What is my application type WA CC Equivalency Guide Disability resources Freshman viewbook – interactive version Freshman viewbook – pdf Transfer viewbook University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA