Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Student Life / Clubs & Activities custom css-js - global Clubs & Activities In addition to fostering an incredible classroom experience, Tulane ensures that a great deal of learning takes place outside of the classroom. Tulane has more than 200 student organizations represented on campus. Examples include: student government, pre-professional and multicultural organizations, media groups, performance groups, service organizations, education organizations, honor societies, fraternities, sororities, club and intramural sports, military groups and political organizations. This extensive list of activities, paired with a medium-sized undergraduate student population of about 7,000 students, allows all Tulane students the opportunity to get involved and make a meaningful difference on campus and in the community. The Office of New Student & Leadership Programs helps students get the most out of their college experience by challenging them to develop leadership and communication skills. Team NSLP connects them to relevant student groups and can facilitate the process of starting their own organizations. Other campus resources that students utilize for leadership support, development, and organization include the Office of Multicultural Affairs, the Office of Religious Life, and the Office of Gender & Sexual Diversity. Our student-run campus programming organization brings some of the best musicians, artists, comedians, and scholars onto campus. Lil Dicky, T-Pain, Kehlani, Major Lazer, Thomas Rhett, Childish Gambino, Jesse McCartney, Smash Mouth, Snoop Dogg, John Legend, Modest Mouse, Juvenile, and Vampire Weekend have all recently performed on Tulane's campus. Recent guest speakers on campus include Bill Nye the Science Guy, Jane Goodall, John Mulaney, Neil deGrasse Tyson, Laverne Cox, Spike Lee, Barack Obama, Steve Jobs, Michael Oerh, Jeffery Sachs, Toni Morrison, and Colin Powell. Learn more about Tulane's clubs and activities: Clubs & Activities Traditions Diversity Multicultural and Access Programs Diversity Fellows Student Perspectives Only in New Orleans Housing Dining Fitness & Health Safety & Security Did You Know? 85% of undergraduate students travel from over 300 miles away to attend Tulane. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University