Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Visit / Special Programs custom css-js - global Special Programs Tulane Comes to You Campus Preview Days Pre-College Summer Programs Metropolitan Universities Tour Junior Nights We offer several on-campus admission programs in addition to our daily tours and information sessions. Campus Preview Days (Fall & Spring) Tulane holds Campus Preview Days in the fall and spring for prospective students and their families. Each day includes an informational overview, student panel, information about admission and financial aid, and a campus tour. Learn more about Campus Preview Days. Louisiana Campus Preview Days (Fall & Spring) These preview days provide Louisiana students and their families with a comprehensive and informative day on Tulane's campus, geared specifically toward Louisiana high school students. The program includes a campus tour, an admission and financial aid discussion, and a student panel. Louisiana Campus Preview Day: Monday, January 27th Learn more about and register for Louisiana Campus Preview Days. Tulane Receptions (Fall & Spring) Meet Tulane admission counselors when they come to you! Tulane hosts several receptions in cities throughout the world for interested students and their families each fall, and for admitted students each spring. Register for a Tulane Comes to You reception in your area this fall. Destination Tulane (Spring) All admitted students and their families are invited to attend Destination Tulane, a spring program that gives admitted students a comprehensive look at what life is like as a Tulane student. Sit in on a class with Tulane professors and students Meet current students and other members of the incoming class Tour Tulane's historic campus and eat in the dining hall Get answers to many questions regarding academics, financial aid, and student life Admitted students may sign up for a Destination Tulane date through the Green Wave Portal. Junior Nights The college admission process can be daunting and intimidating. Join members of the Office of Admission at Tulane to learn tips for applying to selective universities and colleges, and join in on a candid discussion to demystify the college application process. Register for a Junior Night in your area this spring. App Launch Event (Summer) Join us for a weekend long on-campus event with multiple breakout sessions that cover every aspect of the college application process including tips and tricks of applying to selective schools, advice on how to start your college search, what to consider when picking your major, and more. You can also tour campus and sit in on student and staff panels. We’ll wrap it all up with a session that allows participants to act as admission committee members of a fictional school and gain insight while they make decisions on fictional applicants. The event will end with live music performed by a local band. Join us for one or both days! You have control over the schedule and can sign up for a few sessions on each day or for all of the sessions on both days; you decide how much time you’d like to spend on campus. Can’t make it to campus? We will also be streaming sessions on Saturday, July 31st and hosting a virtual mock admission committee program on Sunday, August 1st. Register Lunch with a Current Student (Spring) We encourage admitted students to have lunch with a current Tulane student during their visit. While not guaranteed, we do try our best to accommodate all requests for a current student lunch. Please submit your request at least a week in advance Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays at 12:00 noon Tuesdays and Thursdays at 12:30 PM Saturdays at 12:00 noon Not offered on Destination Tulane dates Submit a "Lunch with a Current Student" request Loading... Campus Tours Daily Campus Tours Large Group Tours Arts/Architecture Tours Our Tour Guides VirTUal Visiting Class Visits Special Programs Tulane Comes to You Campus Preview Days Pre-College Summer Programs Metropolitan Universities Tour Junior Nights Interactive Campus Map Getting Here Eat, Stay, Play Eating in New Orleans Where To Stay Celebrated Events Our Favorite Places Did You Know? One of the world’s most extensive collections of Mardi Gras memorabilia is housed in a Special Collections Archive on Tulane’s campus. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University