Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Athletics Whether you are a varsity or recreational athlete, you will have an opportunity to play like a tiger at Princeton. Our student athletes are known for excelling in academics and sports. Princeton has 37 varsity teams for men and women. We have one of the largest and most successful athletic programs in NCAA Division I; Princeton teams have won more Ivy League championships than any other school during the last two decades, and several Princeton teams have won national titles. A number of Princeton athletes participated in the 2016 Olympics, and one brought home a gold medal. About 18 percent of undergraduates participate in varsity sports. Varsity teams practice and play in the University's superior athletic facilities. Jadwin Gymnasium has 250,000 square feet of indoor space for various sports, including basketball and indoor track and field, in addition to an outdoor practice area. The Tigers play football in Princeton Stadium, which has seating for 27,800 people. Shea Rowing Center is home to the crew program, which rows on Princeton's beautiful Lake Carnegie. The University also has an ice hockey rink, an eight-lane Olympic track, beautiful venues for tennis, soccer, softball, baseball, field hockey, lacrosse, swimming and diving, rugby and more than 50 acres of fields. All students can participate in club and intramural sports for exercise and fun. There are 38 sport clubs, ranging from ballroom dancing to ultimate frisbee, and the intramural sports program brings students together for friendly competitions such as the popular annual dodgeball tournament. Dillon Gymnasium is a base for recreational athletics and includes a pool, dance studio and the Stephens Fitness Center, offering individual and group fitness equipment and programs. Campus Life Education Through Athletics 37 varsity teams Earn Your Stripes Full content of http://www.goprincetontigers.com/index.aspx Campus Life Campus Recreation Sport Clubs · Intramurals Explore Full content of https://campusrec.princeton.edu/ Undergraduate Blog Sports and Recreation Jack Graham Learn More Campus Life Faculty Mentorship Academic-Athletic Fellows Learn More Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746