Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions International Students At NC State we value diversity and welcome international students. Located in Raleigh, North Carolina, we are proud to be home to the most diverse student body in North Carolina hosting students from more than 120 different countries. For admissions purposes, an international applicant is someone who is not a U.S. Citizen and is not a Permanent Resident (Green Card holder). A Top Public Institution We have been awarded over 1,500 patents worldwide and have generated 170+ startups and spinoffs based on NC State research. NC State has received numerous national and international rankings for outstanding academic quality, affordable tuition rates, employability, and exceptional degree programs in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Top 1% of Universities Worldwide Center for World University Rankings #1 Best Public College for Your Money in North Carolina Money #13 Best Value Among Public Schools Nationally Princeton Review Preparing You For Your Future #15 Best Public School for Internships Nationally Princeton Review We are leading the field in producing the graduates America needs, according to U.S. News & World Report. NC State and the city of Raleigh are integral parts of North Carolina’s vibrant Research Triangle region, which is home to many of the country’s leading research and technology companies. Over 1,000 employers participated in virtual recruiting events in 2020-2021, those with the highest documented level of student recruiting activity include Altec, Amazon, Cisco, Credit Suisse, Deloitte, Duke Energy, Eaton Corporation, Fidelity Investments, IBM, Kimley-Horn, Merck, Microsoft, NetApp, and SAS. Determine your student type International First-Year Students International students who have graduated or will graduate from secondary school (high school) but have not earned credits at a post-secondary institution should apply as a first-year (freshman) applicant. Read more International Transfer Students International students who have graduated from secondary school (high school) and have enrolled at a post-secondary institution should apply as a transfer student. Read more Office of International Services NC State’s main resource to provide assistance to you and your family as you transition to studying in the U.S. regarding immigration regulations, university policies, employment and travel. See the resources Partner Programs NC State Intensive English Program (IEP) Applicants who are academically competitive but do not meet the English proficiency requirements for direct admission may be considered for conditional admission to NC State’s Intensive English Program (IEP). IEP is a full-time, non-credit academic program for international students to gain the cultural, academic, and English skills essential for a smooth transition to a degree-seeking program. New Mind University Performance Program (UPP) New Mind Education has been a partner of NC State since 2010. New Mind’s University Performance Program (UPP) is a supplementary enrichment and advisory program designed to support first-year international students at NC State, including students in the IEP and undergraduate and graduate programs. UPP provides weekly one-on-one advising, first-year seminars, volunteer opportunities, extracurricular activities, and field trips to achieve students’ holistic success. Participation in UPP is optional but highly recommended. learn more about our partner programs NC State IEP New Mind UPP Get to know NC State Admissions Sessions Register for a virtual session to learn about NC State and the application process for international students. Read more College-Specific Sessions Register for a virtual information session with one of our academic colleges to learn more about specific majors and first-year programs. Read more Virtual Campus Tour If you can’t visit Raleigh in person, we’ve created a virtual tour so that you can explore campus from the comfort of your home. Read more Use of Agents or Educational Agencies NC State does not partner with incentive-based agents or educational agencies to represent the university or to administer any part of the application process. We recognize that in many countries agents or consultants are retained by students and their families to assist in applying to universities in the United States. It is not necessary to engage an agent in order to have a strong chance of admission to NC State. Admission decisions are not based on the recommendations of agents. NC State expects an application to be the work of the applicant and that all information on the application is complete, accurate and truthful. We may reject application materials, cancel an admissions offer or dismiss a student from attendance, if it is determined that application materials have been falsified. It is critical that applicants use their own email address, phone number, and mailing address on their application to ensure that all communication from NC State is delivered in an accurate and timely manner. Missing any important communication from NC State may delay applicants’ application process and admission decisions. Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.