Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Latest Announcements Princeton, like other universities across the world, is actively engaged in efforts to prepare for and mitigate the impacts from COVID-19 (commonly known as coronavirus). Our top priority is to support the health and well-being of our community as we continue to advance our teaching and research mission. Below are the lastest announcements on University developments and updates. Campus Visits 2022 The Admission Information Center is open for visitors 7 days a week from 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. while classes are in session. The Admission Information Center closes for winter break, spring break, and will close from late-May through mid-June at which point it will reopen for summer tours. Orange Key tours are available 6 days a week while classes are in session. Registration for Orange Key tours is required, and you may register on our website. At this time, Admission Information Sessions are only offered virtually. You may sign up for a virtual information session on our website. Prospective students are welcome to visit campus and enjoy our outdoor facilities; however, per University policy, visitors will not have access to buildings on campus. We encourage you to take advantage of our self-guided campus tour via your smartphone, sign up for a guided Orange Key Tour or register for a virtual information session. Important Information About Standardized Testing and the Application Deadline We realize that we are living in unprecedented times, and the Office of Admission, like many of you, is thinking ahead to next year and the college application process. We want to reassure you about our process for this coming application cycle. Please see our COVID-19 Update about the 2021-22 application cycle. Prospective Student FAQs: When will campus visits become available? Orange Key Tours are now available on campus through late May 2022. Registration for the summer of 2022 will open in April. Prospective students are welcome to visit campus and enjoy our outdoor facilities; however, per University policy, visitors will not have access to buildings on campus. We encourage you to take advantage of our self-guided campus tour via your smartphone, sign up for a guided Orange Key Tour or register for a virtual information session. Will my admission be negatively impacted if I cannot participate in an in-person campus visit? No. We do not measure demonstrated interest, nor do we consider campus visits or engagement with our office when evaluating an applicant. The virtual programming being offered is designed to help you gain a better understanding of Princeton University. Can I connect with a current student? “Tiger Talks” are available for prospective students throughout the spring of 2022. To learn more about this program and to register, visit our Tiger Talks registration page. Can I sit in on a virtual class? Unfortunately, we cannot accommodate this request at this time. If you still have questions, please reach out to us at uaoffice@princeton.edu or 609-258-3060. Community #TigersHelping From the frontlines to the homefront, Princeton alumni, faculty, staff and students are serving and supporting their communities and fellow Tigers amid the challenges of COVID-19. Learn More Full content of https://tigershelping.princeton.edu/ Podcast WeRoar This podcast offers short meditations by a wide range of Princetonians as they continue their work and daily lives through one of the watershed moments of our time. Listen Full content of http://weroar.princeton.edu/ News Spring Term 2021 Information Learn More Full content of https://spring2021.princeton.edu/ Announcement Statement to Applicants about Changes to the 2020-21 Cycle Learn More Full content of https://admission.princeton.edu/how-apply/covid-19-update Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746