Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Military NC State is home to nearly 3,000 military-connected students and has earned national recognition as a Top-Ten Military Friendly School. We are honored to serve all military-affiliated students and are committed to helping you successfully apply and enroll at NC State. NC State proudly offers numerous benefits and resources to our military service members, veterans, and dependents, to include processing of Residency Reclassification, Yellow Ribbon funding, and veteran support services. For more information about these programs, email Veterans Education Benefits at veterans-ed@ncsu.edu Top 10 Military Friendly School Best for Vets Colleges Military Friendly Spouse School Applying to NC State Residency and Tuition Applicants will apply for residency through the North Carolina Residency Determination Service (RDS). Find out how to qualify Determine Your Student Type Military dependents that are still in high school must apply as first-year applicants. If you’ve already graduated from high school and begun your college education at another institution, you must apply as a transfer applicant. We recommend you have a minimum of 30 transferable college semester credit hours completed (or 45 quarter hours) before you apply to NC State. View tips for preparing to apply here. If you have no prior college coursework, we encourage you to consider enrollment at a community college or other institution to obtain college credits and become a competitive transfer applicant. Learn more about transfer credit for military applicants here. Apply On Time Review our dates and deadlines for your student type to make sure you apply on time. Interested in a studio-based major or the Agricultural Institute? Make sure to review their application deadlines and notification dates – they differ from our other programs. Pay the Fee A non-refundable application fee of $85 is required. If you think you may qualify for a fee waiver, view fee waiver eligibility requirements and learn how to submit documentation here. Active-Duty Military Personnel Applicants have the opportunity to indicate on the application if they are active-duty military personnel in order to have the application fee waived. Learn who qualifies as active-duty military here. Contact the Veterans Education Office for more information regarding this process at 919-515-3048 or email veterans-ed@ncsu.edu. Additional Resources Online and Distance Education Programs Community College Collaboration (C3) Agricultural Institute Certificate Programs Yellow Ribbon GI Bill Benefits Soldier to Agriculture Program Military and Veteran Services The Military and Veteran Services office is NC State’s centralized resource to offer support to military-affiliated students. Get connected Transfer Credit for Military Students NC State may award credit for military experience or coursework. Credit type and amount will vary by student, and most military credit is vocational and will only be awarded elective credit. If your credit is reported on either a Joint Services Transcript or a Community College of the Air Force transcript, you will need to submit an official transcript to NC State for review. Use the below resources to determine how you may be awarded for previous credits at NC State. Military Credit Learn how to be awarded military transfer credit and view military credit opportunities. Transfer Credit Database Use our database to see how college courses taken at other institutions may transfer to NC State. NC Community College Baccalaureate Degree Plans We’ve provided pathway plans from NC Community Colleges to NC State for different majors. NC State Degree Requirements View course requirements for NC State majors. ROTC Opportunities Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Naval ROTC Military and Veterans Services has made a significant impact on my time here at NC State because of the overwhelming support and knowledge from the amazing staff. Heather Akers Class of 2020 Virtual Information Session Military and Veterans Services presents information and helpful resources for military-affiliated students at NC State. Watch now Veterans Education Benefits Learn more about VA benefits and other university resources. Discover Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.