Skip to main content Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Connect Visit Apply Search Search Menu Menu Search for: Search Clear Search Close Search Our StudentsToggle Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus LifeToggle Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Connect Visit Apply Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Visit Visit EXPERIENCE DUKE The best way to enjoy Duke’s warm and welcoming spirit is to meet the people who create it: our students, faculty, and alumni. When you meet us, you’ll feel the connection, collaboration, and creativity that are the hallmark of the Duke experience. Join us virtually, in person, or both — whatever works best for you. There’s no preference in the admissions process for students who have been to campus. Get to Know Duke VISIT VIRTUALLY Not seeing Duke in person doesn’t mean you can’t experience everything that makes Duke an amazing place to learn, explore, live, and connect. We hope you’ll join us for some or all of our virtual programs. For help deciding what options are best for you, click below or check out our guide here. Register for Virtual Events! Arrow Right Created with Sketch. Join Us Virtually! Register for Virtual Events Arrow Right Created with Sketch. Help Me with My Visit Options Arrow Right Created with Sketch. Open EXPLORING COLLEGE OPTIONS Toggle Exploring College Options is a special informational program sponsored by the undergraduate admissions offices of five of the country’s leading universities: Duke University, Georgetown University, Harvard University, the University of Pennsylvania, and Stanford University. Representatives from each university will present information about their institution, discuss the application process, and answer questions on how to put together a strong and reflective application. REGISTER NOW Live! Virtual Information Session (English) Toggle Hosted by a Duke admissions officer, information sessions introduce you to Duke University. Learn about our academic choices, signature programs, and community experience. 35 minutes; Live; Year-round; Registration Required Register Now If you’re unable to join us live, view a recorded session with admissions officer Milan Hamilton ’20 here: Live! Virtual Campus Tour Toggle Virtual tours offer an opportunity to visit campus from the comfort of your own home. Current student ambassadors guide you through popular spots on campus. 60 minutes; Live; Year-round, Monday/Wednesday/Friday; Registration required Register Now If you aren’t able to join us live, view one of our recorded tours. Live! Virtual Pratt School of Engineering Tour Toggle Interested in engineering? Join current students to explore Pratt’s newest facilities and get information on various opportunities available to engineering students. 60 minutes; Live; Year-round, Tuesdays; Registration required Register Now Live! Apply to Duke Toggle Want to hear more about applying, how Duke admissions officers evaluate applications, and what we look for when reviewing applications? Join us to get all the details! 35 minutes; Live; October through December 2021; Registration required Register Now If you’re unable to join us live, view a recorded session with Dean Christoph Guttentag here: También ofreceremos una Guía para solicitar en español en fecha(s) NECESARIA(S). Puede ver una versión grabada en el canal de YouTube de Admisiones de pregrado de Duke. Live! Affording a Duke Education Toggle College is a significant expense, but we’re committed to making a Duke education affordable for as many students as possible. Join Duke Financial Support Officers to learn about our financial aid policies and how to apply. 35 minutes; Live; October 2021 through January 2022; Registration required Register Now If you aren’t able to join us live, you can view a recorded session with David Wiltshire from Karsh Office of Undergraduate Financial Support here: Virtual + Video Tours Toggle Virtual Reality Campus Tour Get a feel for the student experience through our recorded virtual reality tour. The tour explores Duke’s campus highlights as well as residence halls, libraries, and dining locations. Start the tour Join us for short tours of East Campus and West Campus, plus a longer, detailed tour of West Campus. East Campus Tour At Duke, all first-year undergraduates live together on East Campus, a housing community designed to support the needs and interests of students who are new to college life. On East Campus, students quickly meet classmates from diverse backgrounds and start building life-long friendships. 5 minutes; Recorded; View anytime West Campus Tour (short) Duke’s Gothic West Campus is central to the Duke experience. It’s home to many academic departments, residential quads for sophomores, juniors, and seniors, Duke’s professional schools, Duke Chapel, our main library, and major athletic facilities. 5 minutes; Recorded; View anytime West Campus Tour (long) Follow student guide, Devan ’23 as he walks through campus with a gimbal and camera in hand. During this walking tour, you’ll see a number of Duke’s academic and extracurricular opportunities and learn about housing, dining, and residence life as you view our beautiful campus. You can take the tour all at once or jump into whatever section interests you. 60 minutes; Recorded; View anytime See It for Yourself VISIT IN PERSON Duke’s campus is considered one of the most beautiful college campuses in the country. But it’s not just the physical campus that makes Duke unlike anywhere else. It’s the warmth and welcoming spirit you feel from everyone who makes up our special community. Duke’s campus is now open to visitors who adhere to the University visitor policies. Register For Your Campus Tour! Arrow Right Created with Sketch. Join Us! Schedule Your Visit Arrow Right Created with Sketch. Open CAMPUS TOURS GROUP TOURS IMMERSIONS & OTHER TOURS UNIVERSITY VISITOR POLICIES CAMPUS TOURS GROUP TOURS IMMERSIONS & OTHER TOURS UNIVERSITY VISITOR POLICIES GUIDED WALKING TOUR Toggle Led by a student tour guide, our outdoor walking tours give you a chance to see campus highlights, ask questions, and hear why we love our vibrant community. In the event of severe weather or campus closures, tours could be canceled or delayed. 60-75 minutes; Reservations required Schedule a Campus Tour If you plan to visit campus on your own, download the Duke Admissions Tour app which is now available for iPhone and Android users. You may also stop by the Undergraduate Admissions Office to pick up a campus map from our outside information box. Admissions staff are not available for in-person meetings, nor are we able to accommodate walk-in visitors for student-led tours or special requests of any kind. DIRECTIONS TO CAMPUS Toggle Duke is located in Durham, North Carolina. The closest airport is Raleigh-Durham International Airport, which is a 20-minute drive to Duke. An Amtrak train station and Greyhound bus station are located in downtown Durham, a 7-minute drive from the Undergraduate Admissions Office. Complimentary visitor parking for Undergraduate Admissions programs is available in the gravel lot on Duke University Road, directly across from the Karsh Alumni and Visitors Center, which is located at 2080 Duke University Road, Durham, North Carolina, 27708. Duke Undergraduate Admissions is located at 2138 Campus Drive, Durham, North Carolina, 27706. Tours originate from either the Karsh Alumni and Visitors Center or McClendon Commons in the Duke Undergraduate Admissions Office. Please check tour confirmation messages for details. Most major hotel chains are located in the Raleigh-Durham area. You may find a list of hotels closest to Duke here or at the Durham Convention and Visitors Bureau here. VISITING CAMPUS Toggle In order to accommodate as many individual visitors as possible, at this time we do not have plans to offer group tours during spring 2022. If you plan to visit campus on your own, download the Duke Admissions Tour app which is now available for iPhone and Android users. You may also stop by the Undergraduate Admissions Office to pick up a campus map from our outside information box. VIRTUAL PROGRAMMING Toggle We welcome those we would have previously organized a group visit to campus to sign up for our virtual programming. If you are a community-based organization or college access program with questions about separate programming, please reach out to UNDERGRAD-ADMISSIONS@DUKE.EDU. CONNECT WITH FACULTY Toggle If you would like to speak with a faculty member in a particular department or program, we encourage you to reach out directly to the Director of Undergraduate Studies in the department(s) or program(s) of interest to you. For majors/programs in Trinity College of Arts and Sciences, click here. For the Pratt School of Engineering, click here. Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) Toggle Duke provides Army, Navy, and Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) programs for interested students, all of which offer the possibility of financial aid. Representatives from each division are available to answer specific questions. Air Force (AFROTC) Recruiting Officer: Michael Nishimura 919-660-1869 Army (AROTC) Recruiting Officer: Jeff Daye 919-660-3091 Navy/Marine Corps (NROTC) Recruiting Officer: LT Nate Vallancey (Interim) 919-660-3706 OTHER TOURS Toggle The following options are available when Duke’s campus is open to visitors. Pratt School of Engineering Explore Pratt’s newest facilities and get information on various opportunities available to engineering students. Reservations required. Learn more Duke Kunshan University Learn more about Duke’s campus in China through information sessions held on Fridays at the Duke Kunshan University Office of Recruitment. Registration required. Learn more Rubenstein Arts Center If you are interested in the arts at Duke, schedule a tour with a student arts ambassador to explore this state-of-the-art facility. Guests must submit tour requests at least one week in advance. Learn more Nasher Museum of Art Check out the collection’s rotating exhibitions and permanent installations. Plan your visit with the self-guided tour map. Learn more Duke Chapel A new 360-degree virtual tour presents the sights and sounds of Duke Chapel with highlights and anecdotes from the building’s history. Learn more Cameron Indoor Stadium Discover the Duke Basketball Museum & Duke Athletics Hall of Fame, located adjacent to Cameron in the Schwartz-Butters Athletic Center. Learn more Marine Lab Tours of the Duke University Marine Laboratory, located about 180 miles east of Duke’s main campus, are available to high school or college-aged students who are interested in enrolling. Learn more The Lemur Center Visit Duke’s internationally acclaimed Lemur Center to acquaint yourself with any of the 240 animals across 17 species housed at the noninvasive research facility. Learn more CAMPUS VISIT POLICES Toggle Visitors to campus are expected to adhere to University Visitor Policies. Our Campus Highlights When Duke was founded in 1924, the construction of its campus was the single largest Depression-era project in the United States. Today, the Georgian East Campus and neo-Gothic West Campus serve as the core of Duke’s sprawling campus. With more than 250 buildings situated on 8,600+ acres of land, 7,044 of which are forest, you will immediately feel immersed in a “Gothic Wonderland.” BALDWIN AUDITORIUM Built in 1927, designed by Duke’s founding architect Julian Abele and situated on East Campus, Baldwin Auditorium serves as one of the university’s core venues in which leading classical soloists and ensembles, vocal ensembles, and jazz ensembles perform. Duke Chapel Built in 1932 at the center of West Campus, Duke Chapel, with its 210-foot tower and a 50-bell carillon, is the architectural symbol of the university. PERKINS LIBRARY Perkins Library, together with Duke’s other libraries, comprises one of the nation’s top 10 private research library systems. The libraries’ services and resources include more than six million volumes, more than 20 million manuscripts, more than two million electronic resources, 100,000+ items in digital collections, and tens of thousands of films and videos. FITZPATRICK CENTER This 322,000-square-foot collaborative research center brings together faculty in four research initiatives: biology, photonics, materials, and integrated sensors. The $97 million facility also expands the Pratt School of Engineering’s partnership with the School of Medicine by providing laboratories for collaborative research in healthcare, genomics, and biotechnology. CAMERON INDOOR STADIUM The crown jewel of college basketball, Cameron Indoor boasts intimate seating arrangements for more than 9,000 fans, including bleacher-style seats alongside the court reserved for students (nicknamed the Cameron Crazies). Learn More Baldwin Auditorium Duke Chapel Perkins Library Fitzpatrick Center Cameron Indoor Stadium Open Durham, North Carolina No place like home It’s impossible to fully describe the close bonds between Duke and Durham. Since its history, Duke has grown from a small liberal arts college to a world-class research university. Similarly, Durham has evolved from a small tobacco town to the City of Medicine. With rich culture and boundless innovation both at Duke and in Durham, we are proud of our hometown. Discover Durham Arrow Right Created with Sketch. Our Students 01 Campus Life 02 Financial Support 03 Join Our Mailing List Sign Up Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support © DUKE.EDU 2022 Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Disable Animations