Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > MyStatus MyStatus MyStatus offers access to information about admissions, honors, housing, financial aid and more. Through tabs and lists of pending, completed and recommended items, get secure, individualized information from initial application submission to your final admission decision and beyond. After you submit your admissions application, you’ll receive an email from us that includes your UT EID, allowing you to access MyStatus. During peak periods, this can take 2–3 days. Do not create a UT EID prior to submitting your admissions application as you will not be able to access MyStatus without an application on file. Use your UT EID and password to log in. Stay Informed In addition to basic information about the status of your application, MyStatus offers a to-do list of items to help you stay on top of your application and admission. Here are some examples of the tasks you may see there: Pay your application fee Upload a résumé Submit your official transcripts Accept or decline your offer of admission Document Upload System Once you gain access to MyStatus you can use the Document Upload System to submit additional application items. Within the Document Upload System you can upload items such as transcripts or letters of recommendation. You can also use Document Upload to request for someone (such as your high school counselor) to submit documents such as transcripts and letters of recommendation on your behalf. Track Items Having trouble keeping track of what’s been received by the Office of Admissions? MyStatus can help. Click the Documents tab to see a list of items on file. Cancel or Decline Should you change your mind about attending the university, you can use MyStatus to cancel your application or decline your offer of admission. Freshman Admission Deadlines Summer/Fall: Priority U.S. applicants only November 1 To meet the priority deadline students should submit the online application by November 1 and all additional required or optional application items by November 8. The priority deadline offers students the opportunity to receive their admission decision up to one month earlier. Students who meet the priority deadline will receive an admission decision by February 1, which may include a deferred decision to March 1 (the regular application deadline notification date). Regular December 1 To meet the regular deadline students should submit the online application by December 1 and all additional required or optional application items by December 10. All applicants who meet the regular deadline will receive an admission decision by March 1. Spring: October 1 All completed applications received by October 1 will receive an admission decision by mid-January Items must arrive in our office by the applicable deadline. When a deadline occurs on a Saturday or Sunday, the admissions application will remain open until 11:59 p.m. (Central) the following Monday. admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022