Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Apply / Getting Into Tulane / Plan Your Summer custom css-js - global Plan Your Summer Visit Schools Summer vacation is a great time to get a head start on your college search. One of the first things you can start doing is visiting college campuses. Start your search locally by visiting the schools in your area. This will give you an opportunity to familiarize yourself with how campus visits work and what the admission process looks like. Although there is likely to be fewer students on campus over the summer, you can still have a productive visit at any school. When booking your visit, contact the undergraduate admission office. The admission office is a great resource to help connect you with current students, staff, and faculty, and will help you make the most out of your visit. Do What You Wanna It's not only the unofficial motto of New Orleans, it's how you should approach your high school activities too. We often hear of students taking up activities like internships over the summer because they think it will enhance their college application. At Tulane, we don't value some activities over others, so do what interests you and fits your goals the most. Getting internship experience is great, but don't do it just to impress the admission committee. If you have no interest in the internship, that's not going to help your application stand out. More than anything admission committees want to see you engaged in activities you're passionate about. We can feel that passion when you write about your activities on the application, but we can also feel when you're just doing certain things to check a box. Our advice is to think broadly about ways to spend your summer, whether that's getting a job, doing research, finding the right internship, volunteering, or something else. Just make sure it's something you want to do. Keep the Essay in Mind The essay portion of the application can be the most difficult part for students. This summer, start thinking about a topic. Here’s the secret: think about the first thing that comes to mind as your college essay topic. Now, put that aside, dig a little bit deeper, and see if you can come up with something a little more unique to you. Odds are, the first thing that popped into your mind is the same thing that popped into the minds of thousands of other college applicants across the country. Another way to think of it is: if your best friend or sibling could write the same essay, pick something else to write about. Just like the activities section of the application, the essay should speak to who you are, not who you think would impress an admission counselor. In your spare time this summer, try out some writing exercises like composing an introductory paragraph. You can even review the Common App essay prompts for this year to start planning which prompt you’ll respond to. At Tulane, we have an additional essay prompt that asks you to explain why you are interested in Tulane, which is something you can mull over during a potential summer visit! Getting Into Tulane Class of 2026 Profile Interview Tips Plan Your Summer Tips for High School Juniors Instructions Curriculum Requirements Standardized Tests Application Status Deadlines & Forms Portfolios & Auditions Home-schooled Students Louisiana Applicants Gap Year Information Prior Criminal Conviction Did You Know? At the first commencement address for the Tulane School of Medicine in 1836, the Dean delivered his entire speech in Latin. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University