Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open How Aid Works More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid We will meet 100% of the demonstrated need of all admitted financial aid applicants. What is Need? Cost of Attendance − Family Contribution = "Need" Cost of Attendance includes direct and indirect expenses. Direct expenses are tuition, fees, food, and housing. Indirect expenses are travel costs, books, supplies, laundry, etc. Although students do not receive a bill from Campus Billing for these expenses, we do consider an average amount per student when determining aid eligibility. Family Contribution consists of a parent and student contribution. Students who receive assistance are expected to contribute a minimum amount annually, which should come from leave term earnings. Student contributions range from $1,000 to 3,000 per year. Dartmouth meets this "Need" with a combination of work and scholarships, and, for some students, low-interest loans will be included. Zero Parent Contribution and No Loan for Families with Income Below $65,000 Students from families with total annual income below $65,000 who possess typical assets for this income range, will not have an expected parent contribution toward educational costs. Students will still be expected to contribute toward their own expenses from their summer income, part-time work during the school year, and their own savings. Your award will not include a student loan. Families with Total Income below $125,000, who possess typical assets The Dartmouth scholarship covers full tuition for students from families with total incomes of $125,000 or less who possess typical assets. The financial aid offer will not include loans. Student and/or parent loans are available to help offset the family contribution and additional expenses such as health insurance or a computer. Families with Total Income above $125,000 We review each aid application carefully, considering each family's individual circumstances, and many families with higher incomes do qualify for scholarship assistance. Low-interest loans are included in the aid packages of students in this income category. Dartmouth students graduate with among the lowest levels of student loan debt in the country, on average. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback