Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Undergraduate Admissions Admissions right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English (ACE) Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Ace Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow In-Person Campus Tour right arrow down arrow Visitor Guidelines Campus Parking and Walking Directions Group Visit Self-Guided Visit Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First NEXT Innovation Scholarship Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media Admissions » Apply » Tips and Resources » Process and Timeline Set Navigation title in component Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Admission Decision Process and Timeline Below you will find some helpful information about our admission decision process. If you have questions about your specific application please contact the Office of Admissions or your admissions counselor. Application Review Applications submitted for the University of Cincinnati’s Uptown (main) Campus are reviewed holistically, considering every item provided in the application file. Applications are read by admission team members, who are trained to use application information—both academic and personal—to more fully understand who the applicant is, how likely they are to be academically successful in an Uptown campus program, and what attributes the student will bring to our campus community. Consequently, there is not a “minimum” GPA or ACT/SAT test score, just as there is not a guaranteed admission based on a student’s profile. Items considered during application review: Official High School Transcript: Overall success as demonstrated by GPA, curriculum, grade trend. We want to see students who have been successful in a challenging, college prep curriculum—including taking advanced coursework (AP, IB, dual enrollment) if offered at your school. Extracurricular Activities: How do you spend your time outside of the classroom? Some students may participate in school organizations or sports; others may volunteer or work; and others may be a caregiver to a family member. One type is not more important than the other, we just want to learn more about you. Essay and Personal Statement: This is your opportunity to have a voice in the admission process. Be authentic and tell us something about yourself that we otherwise wouldn’t know. ACT/SAT Test Scores: UC is proud to offer test-optional admission to students applying for the fall 2021 and fall 2022 terms. However, a test score is still required for the following programs: the College of Nursing Direct-Admit BSN program and the Early Childhood Education Program (offered through the College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services). We will always consider the highest test score(s) that you send to us. Common Application School Report or Recommendation Letter: Many students ask a teacher to submit a recommendation letter. Select someone who knows you and your academic talents and abilities. Either of these documents will fulfill the requirement, however we recommend students submit both. Auditions and Interviews: College-Conservatory of Music (CCM) are requires applicants to complete an audition or interview. The College of Nursing applicants may be invited to participate in an on-campus interview. Visit the College of Nursing webpage or CCM Handbook for all details. Portfolio: Certain programs within the College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning allow students to submit an optional portfolio as part of their admission review. Students who include Architecture, Communication Design, Fashion Design, Fine Arts, Industrial Design, or Interior Design among their program options will be invited to submit a portfolio for admission consideration if they think it would strengthen their application. Learn more about the guidelines for the DAAP Optional Portfolio. >> Additional Application Review Factors Cincinnati admits students directly into their major. While the holistic review process outlined above is used for every college, some colleges or majors may be more competitive than others. Your selected major may provide us with a lens through which to view your application. For example, strong math and science skills are necessary to be successful in our engineering program and we will look for evidence of those skills before we offer admission to an engineering program. View our application information to see what is needed to complete your application file. Early Action Decision Timeline Regardless of major, Cincinnati reviews all applicants who have met the December 1 Early Action deadline prior to releasing admissions decisions. Early Action applicants can expect to learn their admission decision on Cincinnati Decision Day which is typically in late January or early February. Note the following exceptions: Applicants for the College-Conservatory of Music must audition and will learn of their admission decision no later than March. Rolling Decision Timeline For students who complete an application after December 1, admission decisions will be released on a rolling basis after Cincinnati Decision Day which is typically in late January or early February. Students can log into their applicant status page to view their decision. Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top