Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Careers and Student Spotlights You are here Home Academics Careers & Student Spotlights About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information The path to your passion starts here. As a student, your time at Temple is just the beginning. Our goal is to prepare you to graduate from Temple ready to pursue the career of your dreams, and to help you get there. At Temple, we strive to empower students to think about their next steps and find career success with the help of our comprehensive career development services. Here, you can discover career resources, explore undergraduate job and internship opportunities, and see how some of our alumni have taken what they learned at Temple and applied it to their professional endeavors. Contents Career CenterJobs and InternshipsAlumni Spotlights Career Center Temple’s Career Center provides students with a plethora of resources and services so they can make a seamless transition into the workforce after graduation. Whether you’re seeking information about how to create a résumé, nail an interview or build your brand; looking for an internship or employment; or considering graduate school, the Career Center and its various resources are available to help you kickstart and shape your life after Temple. Explore some of the many career resources that, as a Temple student, are right at your fingertips. Online Resources Temple’s Career Center has a plethora of online resources to help students get on the right path to their dream careers. Students can find the career support they need online, from interview prep to career coaching to job portals. Learn more about Temple’s online career resources. International Student Resources Students from all over the globe find their home at Temple. The Career Center can help our international students find career opportunities and additional resources to help them find success at Temple and beyond. Learn more about resources for international students. Resources for Distance Learners The Career Center provides resources to help Temple students navigate the process of discovering their career, learning new skills, packaging their abilities and building their network—no matter where they’re studying. Learn more about the available resources for distance learners. LGBTQIA+ Student Resources As an LBGTQIA+ student prepares to enter the workforce, there may be some unique challenges they encounter when starting their careers that could raise several questions. Here, students can find support, resources and tips about entering the workplace as a member of the LGBTQIA+ community. Learn more about LGBTQIA+ career resources. Veteran Student Resources The Career Center provides veteran and military-connected students with resources to navigate career transition, job training, education services, financial planning, relocation and more. Learn more about resources for veteran students. Learn more about the resources available through Temple’s Career Center. Jobs and Internships With Main Campus just a mile from the center of Philadelphia, you can find job and internship opportunities almost everywhere. Temple has partnerships with organizations throughout the city that provide students with real-world experiences while they’re studying here to set them up for success after graduation. A short walk or train ride takes you to world-class museums, Fortune 500 corporate headquarters, premier research hospitals and the country’s largest, landscaped, urban park. And Temple’s more than 149,000 alumni in the region love to hire Temple students. In the video below, a Temple student talks about discovering what he wants to do with the rest of his life while interning at the Philadelphia Zoo. Explore thousands of opportunities for hands-on learning and internships in the Philadelphia area via Temple’s Career Center. Alumni Spotlights Endless possibilities in Philadelphia and beyond await after your time at Temple. For some students, the knowledge, skills and opportunities gained at Temple kickstarted the career path of their dreams. In just a few short years following graduation, these Owl alumni are innovating and succeeding in their industries through skill, passion, innovation and determination. Erinn Corbett-Wright Vice President, Charitable Foundation Program Manager for TD Bank, CLA ’14 Only five years after graduating, Erinn Corbett-Wright found her calling in the nonprofit world. Fueled by her desire to do good and make a difference in her community, she attributes the start of her explosive career to one political science class she took at Temple. Read Erinn’s full story. Douglas Ammon Manager, Digital and Social Content Publishing at the National Basketball Association, KLN ’15 While completing his master of journalism degree, Doug found a passion for sports writing that led to an all-star career path. He credits the skills and support he received from Temple with furthering his journey to the NBA. Read Douglas’s full story. Joshua Lee Co-Founder of Jazz Lives Philadelphia and saxophonist in the Count Basie Orchestra, BYR ’16 Josh joined Temple thanks to a scholarship through the Duke Ellington Festival, and eventually earned his master’s in jazz performance. His nonprofit, Jazz Lives Philadelphia, organizes small-venue performances and holds master classes in underserved schools throughout Philadelphia. Read Joshua’s full story. Toni Dixon FBI Management and Program Analyst, KLN ’18 After the life-altering death of her god brother, Toni drew on the journalism skills she gained at Temple and her dedication to criminal justice reform to jump-start her career with the FBI. Read Toni’s full story. Abigail Sydnes Product Manager of Interactivity at Comcast, ENG ’17 Abby Sydnes has emerged as a tech leader in today’s innovative climate at Comcast’s headquarters right here in Philadelphia. She started her journey building robots and interning at NASA during her time at Temple. Read Abigal’s full story. Keval Ray Resident Physician in General Surgery at the Mount Sinai Health System, CST ’16, FOX ’18, MED ’19 Keval Ray bravely serves on the frontlines of the COVID-19 pandemic as one of our nation’s healthcare heroes. Read Keval’s full story. https://30under30.temple.edu/ 30 Under 30 Learn how all of our 30 Under 30 alumni are making an impact. 30 Under 30 Back to Main Academics Go back to AcademicsMore in Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Research & Learning Spaces Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Pre-College Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info