Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Undergraduate Office of Admissions Menu Search Log In Why Nebraska Majors Career Connections Social Connections Academic Life Visit Nebraska Visit Lincoln Apply Admissions Requirements Enrollment Deposit Cost & Aid Scholarship Statement Nebraska Promise Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes Contact Us Information for… First Generation Students High Ability Students International Students LGBTQA+ Students Native American Students Nebraska Now School Counselors Students with Disabilities Transfer Students Undergraduate Online Programs Underrepresented Minorities Veteran and Active Military Students Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Admissions Why Nebraska Social Connections Social Connections Your browser does not support the video tag. Collaborate and co-create with fellow Huskers to prepare for a great career, make a difference and gain lasting friendships. Double arrow pointing down Find Community on Campus When it comes to student engagement, Nebraska ranks in the top 10% of all colleges reviewed by The Wall Street Journal. Huskers develop real friendships that lead to meaningful collaborations—from participation in over 500 student-run clubs and organizations to research partnerships that span the globe. When you get involved on campus, you’ll get the chance to bond with people who have different perspectives and backgrounds, giving you insight and helping you develop the skills that employers demand. Finding a Community: Aus Perez Aus Perez came from a town of 6,000 to Nebraska hoping to make new connections while maintaining old relationships. What they discovered was a community of friends, classmates and mentors and the freedom to be their authentic self. Read More about Aus Perez on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram University of Nebraska–Lincoln @unlincoln Husker friends are forever. Here’s to the lifelong friends you’ll meet at Dear Old Nebraska U. Read More on University of Nebraska–Lincoln's full post at Instagram Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram SLICE at Nebraska @involvedunl Our RSOs (Registered Student Organizations) were busy over the weekend! What was your crew up to?? #unl #involvedunl #unlstudentlife #vibranthub Read More on SLICE at Nebraska's full post on Instagram Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Int'l Student & Scholar Office @unl_isso THANK YOU to everyone who joined us for our Bollywood Dance Workout this week! We had a great time 😁 Let us know if you would like to see this event again, or have ideas for future events! #unl #involvedunl #isso Read More on Int'l Student and Scholar Office's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Student Life at Nebraska @unlstudentlife Rollin’ through the week...Thanks to @unlcampusnightlife for safely hosting Club 80 Roller Skating last week! Read More on Student Life at Nebraska's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Learn to Solve Problems in the Real World Through meaningful, 1-to-1 relationships with peers and professors, you’ll have constant access to new people, ideas and experiences. More than that, you’ll get to work with your peers on creating real solutions that matter to real people. Huskers take pride in what we accomplish because our work makes a difference in people’s lives—from feeding the world, to seeking a cure for HIV, to reimagining early childhood education. Let’s build your vision of the future together. Make a Difference: Josselyn Vazquez-Catalan Josselyn Vazquez-Catalan is a global studies major who grew up in a place very different from Lincoln. Despite this, finding an inclusive group of friends on campus helped her embrace her background. Her experiences opened doors to global connections and inspired her to give back. Read More about Josselyn Vazquez-Catalan on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Student Life at Nebraska @unlstudentlife Congratulations to the ten students who were recently honored with Student Luminary Awards for their exceptional leadership and commitment to improving the campus and community. Read More on Student Life at Nebraska's full post at Instagram Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Business News Newburn’s outlook on college shifted in a positive way after he started a part-time position at Haberfeld Associates in Lincoln. With a new mindset, he decided to enroll in a course that allowed him to get involved and give back to Lincoln. The course provided a fresh insight into his community. It also allowed him to create solutions for rising challenges seen by nonprofits in Lincoln. Read More on Nebraska Business News Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram University of Nebraska–Lincoln @unlincoln For Pride Month, we’re featuring students making an impact on campus. This week, meet Harrison Lloyd, an international business-econ and accounting major from Pflugerville, TX. As the president of Pride in Business and through his other involvements, he's creating inclusive spaces on campus. Read More on University of Nebraska–Lincoln's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today The University of Nebraska–Lincoln’s new partnership on the Peace Corps Prep program will combine coursework and experiential learning to build competencies for undergraduate students to become Peace Corps volunteers or other international development professionals. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Collaborate to Co-Create the Future An important experience on your path to success is finding the right people to support you. Nebraska is a place where you can find people who will push you to be your best. Great things happen when experiences and ideas collide—we do big things here because we do them together. At Nebraska, you’ll create meaningful relationships with your peers and professors and have a constant flow of new ideas and experiences. Best of all, you can make friends and prepare for your future career at the same time. Finding Support & Building a Future: Andrea Trejo “I feel like whenever I needed someone to be there for me, there was always someone. It never felt like I was alone. Nebraska brought amazing people into my life, and that’s like the biggest gift that I got from Nebraska outside of my education.” Read More about Andrea Trejo on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Architecture @unlarchitecture Over the next three months, College of Architecture students will convert the former knife-sharpening truck into a state-of-the-art stage on wheels called the Omaha Mobile Stage. Upon completion, the stage will be mobilized to provide safe, healthy access to performing arts in neighborhoods and schools throughout the Omaha metro area. Read More on UNL Architecture's full post at Instagram Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Nebraska College of Business @nebraskabiz The campus community came together to paint a mural! A new student-run startup called The PALETTE Project led the effort, spearheaded by founder, CEO and senior management major Erika Casarin from Lincoln, Nebraska. Read More on Nebraska College of Business' Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram University of Nebraska–Lincoln @unlincoln Thanks to @nebengineering students, Olive the three-legged cat has a new paw-spective on life. Abby and Harrison 3D printed Olive’s new leg as a part of their senior design capstone. Read More on University of Nebraska–Lincoln's full post at Instagram Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln CoCreate Forming the Theme Park Design Group helped John find other students with similar career goals. Together, the group is gaining experience building attractions around Lincoln—and having a blast doing it. Read More about the Theme Park Design Group on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Live and Learn With Your Peers Making the transition from high school to college is easier when you're surrounded by peers who share similar interests and goals. Learning Communities (LC) are groups of students with a shared major or interest area who live in the same residence hall and are mentored by an upperclassman. Joining an LC gives you an instant community of people who like the same things, and can help you make friendships that'll last through college and beyond. From Community to Career: Justice Forte When Justice came to Nebraska from New Jersey, she wasn't sure what to expect. She found the support system she needed to succeed through her learning community. “It was really nice, especially the first couple weeks, to be able to have this group of people to do things with. On our floor, everybody had their doors open all the time and people would just pop in and talk to me, which was really nice as I got used to not having my family and friends nearby anymore.” Read More about Justice Forte on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram The Department of Psychology @unlpysch This weekend the Psyched Up! Psychology Learning Community participated in the Big Trip to Chicago! Along with taking in some sightseeing, they visited employers in the Psychology field to explore future career options. Read More on UNL Psychology's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today Through a partnership with Rotary International District 5610 out of southern South Dakota, staff from Nebraska Innovation Studio and students from the College of Engineering learning community, Engineering to Change the World, made 30 individual toolboxes for Native American artists who are utilizing the new and developing Whiteclay Makerspace. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram The School of Computing @unlcomputing Our Learning Community students are spending this weekend in Chicago visiting Google and Scientific Games! #LCBigTrip Read More on The School of Computing's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Nebraska Learning Communities @unllearncom "You get to make connections that I wouldn't be able to make by myself"- Media Smarts LC Peers spent their time freshman year living together, learning together, and connecting through experiences like the ones pictured here! Read More on Nebraska Learning Communities' full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Study Abroad and Experience Another Culture Studying abroad is a great way to develop leadership skills and get real-world experience solving problems by immersing yourself in another culture. As a student, you will have opportunities to stretch your strengths through programs like service learning abroad. Nebraska will provide you with the support you need to make it happen. From finding the right program to helping you find scholarships, our Education Abroad Office will help you through it every step of the way. Service Learning Abroad: Alexandra Lee “I was able to do service learning, which is where you volunteer with an organization while you’re [studying abroad]. I could work at a children’s clinic for one semester, and then I could be in a children’s hospital the second semester, while simultaneously being enrolled at a university in Costa Rica and taking Spanish classes there.” Read More about the Alexandra Lee on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Nebraska CAS @unlcas Guten Tag! A 2019 Wiebers Scholarship led senior Ashton abroad: “Working with refugees in Berlin ignited my passion for psychology and helped me find my major... as well as work towards finishing my German major. Read More on Nebraska CAS' full Instagram post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today Nebraska’s Jennifer Au is one of the first Husker students to study abroad after a year-plus of pandemic-related travel restrictions and cancellations. The opportunity to be immersed in Korean language and culture will allow Au to “utilize the skills and language I will learn by applying it to everyday life in South Korea.” Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln CoCreate Carlos Velasco studied abroad and reflects on how the experience helped him grow personally, academically and professionally. Read More about Carlos Velasco on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Twitter University of Nebraska-Lincoln @UNLincoln December 2019 grad Quincey Bernard has spent the last 3 years on study abroad trips and honing his entrepreneurship skills, all for one reason: to one day return to his hometown in Haiti and give back to the country he loves. #UNL Read More about Quincey Bernard on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Get Involved: Make Friends and Give Back Nebraska’s campus culture is strong thanks to our diverse and heavily involved student body. One of the easiest ways to meet people who share common interests with you is by getting involved with an on-campus club. With over 500 Registered Student Organizations, Nebraska has clubs for almost every interest, from sustainability, to photography, to hip-hop dance. If you can't find something that excites you, bring people together by forming your own club. Getting Connected & Finding Home: Hoai Vu “Taking that class [through the Office of Academic Success and Intercultural Services] got me to start hanging out more at the Multicultural Center here on our campus. It started with my friends just being like, ‘Hey, come to this event, try this thing,’ and I started really putting myself out there and forming this big network of people on campus.” Read More about the Hoai Vu on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram University of Nebraska–Lincoln @unlincoln ICYMI: Here's how Huskers gave back recently 💕 ‣ @odk_unl cleaned up the children's play area to make it safer to play in and picked up trash around the People's City Mission (@pcmlincoln) Read More on University of Nebraska-Lincoln's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Nebraska CAS @unlcas Throwback to this activated pair of chemistry (pre-med) majors. ⏩ Inspired by UNMC’s @themunabox chapter, Makayla and Kailynn responded to the pandemic by forming an RSO, researching local centers, and fundraising. Read More on Nebraska CAS' full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Women in Business Club @nebraskauwb Thank you to everyone that came out to make blankets for OpeNShelf Pantry. it was so great to see everyone and get to know each other a little better. Have a great evening! Read More on UNL Women in Business Club's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Student Organic Farm @unl_sof Thank you to our volunteers who came out to pick radishes and paint some beautiful rocks to protect our strawberries from the birds! Read More on UNL Student Organic Farm's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Expand Your Network With Internships Internships are must-have experiences because they help you develop professional skills through mentorship and learning by doing. Lincoln’s vibrant startup community is home to many fast-growing businesses, making it the perfect place to find internships and make connections with future employers. Organizations like Lincoln Young Professionals can help you polish your professional skills and form bonds with peers with similar goals, so you’ll have the support you need on the way to your dream job. Connect to Your Career Path: Alyssa Zizzo “I’ve felt that like with my program and through all my previous internships—I’m so, so tired sometimes, but I still love it—and that's how you know you're passionate about something. I get a spark of excitement just talking about my job. All my past experiences have kind of molded me and taught me everything I needed to get here. I’ve loved it all.” Read More about the Alyssa Zizzo on CoCreate Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark University of Nebraska Lincoln Nebraska Today Senior journalism and broadcasting major Jennifer Yuma has always known she’d be a writer. After taking a few journalism courses at in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications her freshman year, her dream to become an entertainment writer at a lifestyle magazine solidified. Read More on Nebraska Today Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Nebraska Honors @unlhonors This summer, Emma Farson, a biological sciences and psychology double major in her 3rd year at UNL, is earning Honors credit for a research experience in the UNMC College of Dentistry. Read More on Nebraska Honors' full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Nebraska Honors @unlhonors Meet Lauren Penington (@laurenpenington), a 2nd year journalism and political science major! "This summer, I am earning Honors credit for my marketing and promotions internship at Elitch Gardens Amusement Park in Denver, Colorado..." Read More on Nebraska Honors' full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram Carson Center for EMA @carsoncenterunl Congrats to EMA student @payton.bergkamp on the amazing on-set internship she just wrapped up with @syntheticcinema! Read More n Carson Center for EMA's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ Get Connected On Campus No matter your major or interests, you can create and collaborate with peers by joining one of our many Registered Student Organizations. Explore examples of clubs related to academic programs, or tap the link below to search a list of all clubs and organizations. See All Registered Student Organizations Instagram UNL Aerospace Club @unl.aerospace.club Design Build Fly had an awesome flight over the weekend! All passengers survived and the plane performed nominally! Read More on UNL Aerospace Club's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Insect Science Club @unl_insect_science_club Thank you @diventures for hosting the UNL Insect Science club today! We had a blast getting to talk about different aquatic insects today! Read More on UNL Insect Science Club's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Mock Trial @unlmocktrialteam This Halloween, we are being Attorneys and Witnesses at our first tournament for the year! #gbr #happyhalloween #unlmocktrial Read More on UNL Mock Trial's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Instagram UNL Philosophy Club @unlphilosophyclub UNL philosophy club today discussing time and dimensions Read More on UNL Philosophy Club's full Instagram Post Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark See More ↓ FFA Alumni Association College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Meet other FFA alums, promote agricultural education and grow your leadership skills by working with Nebraska FFA chapters to organize events and activities. Read More about FFA Alumni Association Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark The American Institute of Architecture Students (AIAS) College of Architecture Meet other architecture students, network with professionals and visiting speakers and organize various social activities for students in the College of Architecture. Read More about the American Institute of Architecture Students Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Med Life College of Arts and Sciences Promote awareness and education on global health issues and help change healthcare inequality across the globe through Nebraska's chapter of Med Life. Students organize fundraisers to volunteer at mobile health clinics in Latin American countries. Read More about Med Life Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark American Marketing Association (AMA) College of Business Meet other students interested in marketing, network with local professionals and even tour startups and agencies around Lincoln and Omaha to get a taste for what a career in marketing is like. Read More about American Marketing Association Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Student Education Association of Nebraska (SEAN UNL) College of Education and Human Sciences Join Nebraska's professional organization for future educators and discover a forum for students that wish to promote equal opportunities for all people and educate the public about both the meaning and implications of public policy. Read More about Student Education Association of Nebraska Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Engineers Without Borders College of Engineering Partner with disadvantaged communities around the world to improve their quality of life through environmentally sound and economically sustainable engineering projects, while bonding with other engineering students interested in helping people. Read More about Engineers Without Borders Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Nebraska Masquers Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts Organize theater events with other students in the Johnny Carson School of Theatre and Film, from writing and acting in plays, to drag shows and haunted houses. Read More about Nebraska Masquers Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Advertising Club College of Journalism and Mass Communications Join Ad Club to learn more about how advertising works in the real world, meet other students interested in careers in advertising, network with the pros and even work with local businesses to flex your creative skills. Read More about Advertising Club Right-Pointing Single Angle Quotation Mark Contact Us Address Map Pin Office of Admissions 1410 Q Street Lincoln, NE 68588-0417 US Office Hours Clock 8:00AM–5:00PM M–F Phone Phone 402-472-2023 Fax Fax Machine 402-472-0670 Email Envelope admissions@unl.edu Related Links Transfer Student Military Student Diversity Student First Generation Student International Student School Counselors Student Jobs Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.