Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Undergraduate Admissions Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy First-Year ApplicantsIt all starts here Transfer ApplicantsEasy transition Check Application Status Costs & Aid Apply for Aid Financial Aid Eligibility Costs to Attend Financial Aid Calculator Value of a Cornell Education Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Diversity Outreach Resources Identity-Related Resources Student Profiles Traditions Facts Frequently Asked Questions Cornell A-Z Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections You are here Home » Living » Diversity print share Facebook Twitter Diversity Cornell's Long-Standing Commitment to Diversity Many of today’s colleges and universities promote the diversity of their student bodies and academic programs as something new. At Cornell, diversity and multiculturalism have been a defining focus for more than 150 years. Ever since Ezra Cornell and A.D. White joined forces to "found an institution where any person can find instruction in any study," Cornell has been at the forefront of higher education in embracing students, faculty, and staff of all genders, backgrounds, and ethnicities. Cornell is committed to extending its legacy of recruiting a heterogeneous faculty, student body, and staff. We foster a climate on campus that doesn't just tolerate differences but treasures them, providing rich opportunities for learning from those differences. Cornell History "Firsts" In 1872, Cornell was one of the first co-educational institutions in the East. In 1906, Cornell was the founding institution for Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity, the first undergraduate African American fraternity. In 1916, Rho Psi, the first Asian fraternity in the Ivy League, was established at Cornell. In 1929, Cornell was the first university to have an interfaith department for religious affairs. In 1936, Cornell was the first university to award a Ph.D. to an African American woman (Flemmie Kittrell). In 1991, Cornell opened Akwe:kon (pronounced uh-GWAY-go), the nation’s first university residence hall established to celebrate American Indian culture and heritage. To learn more about Cornell’s historical commitment to diversity and inclusion, visit this historical timeline. Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Diversity Outreach Resources Identity-Related Resources Student Profiles Traditions Application Deadlines Contact Us From your first questions about Cornell to the completion of your application, the Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you find the information you need. Website Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. University Privacy Statement Undergraduate Admissions Office Cornell University 410 Thurston Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 admissions@cornell.edu Tel: 607.255.5241 Fax: 607.255.0659 © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment Admitted Students