Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us Academics How to Apply Tuition & Aid Student Life Connect About Us Search Virtual Visit Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Schedule an Information Session & Campus Tour Our Location Meet Your Tour Guide Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Virtual Visit Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Schedule an Information Session & Campus Tour Our Location Meet Your Tour Guide About Us Academics How to Apply Financial Aid Student Life Visit University of Miami Undergraduate Admission Student Life Connect Schedule an Information Session & Campus Tour AAA Schedule an Information Session & Campus Tour Virtual Visit Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Schedule an Information Session & Campus Tour Our Location Meet Your Tour Guide GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Join us on campus for an information session delivered by a current student or an admission counselor who will review application deadlines, financial aid, student life, and all the opportunities that come with studying in Miami. After the presentation, a current student will lead you on a guided tour of our Coral Gables campus. Have your questions ready! SCHEDULE A VISIT Note the University of Miami is an open campus. If you will be in South Florida, and unable to find a campus tour time that works for you, the Office of Undergraduate Admission encourages you to swing by our beautiful campus and see our dynamic community firsthand through a self-guided walking tour. The spring semester is in full swing and bustling with activity—which will help you envision yourself as a future 'Cane. Holiday periods include winter break (mid-December through mid-January), spring break (typically second or third week in March), and summer break (end of April through the end of August). There are limited or no Saturday tours/information sessions during holiday periods. What to Expect When You are On Campus We reserve the right to cancel information sessions and campus tours at any time. While we will try to offer campus tours led by a current student, we cannot guarantee this format. We will offer information sessions led either by a current student or an admission staff member. Access to indoor space on the tour route may be restricted. We apologize for any inconvenience. The Office of Undergraduate Admission is currently unable to hold individual appointments with prospective students. If you have specific questions about your application or supporting documents, we ask that you contact your assigned admission counselor and set up a time to speak by phone or virtual platform, such as Zoom or Microsoft Teams. IMPORTANT: To ensure the health and safety of our campus community, as well as any visiting prospective students and families, we have put in place the following measures based on guidance from public health and government agencies and numerous multi-disciplinary University committees. We kindly ask that you do not visit campus and contact a healthcare provider if you do not feel well or if you have been in contact with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. All students and guests must be preregistered. If a guest is not preregistered alongside their student, they will not be permitted to enter the presentation room. Only one preregistered guest is allowed into the presentation room, and two guests in total will be permitted to accompany the student on the campus tour. If the student has more than two guests, the additional guests are welcome to enjoy our self-guided tour. Face coverings while on campus are now optional. Individuals who wish to wear a face covering for their protection are encouraged to do so, and that decision will be respected by all members of our community. Please do not arrive more than 20 minutes prior to the start of the event. Avoid contact, such as shaking hands. Public restrooms will be available for use. We strongly encourage abiding by public health guidelines, including washing your hands with soap and water for 20 seconds, or using hand sanitizer. Please do not visit campus if you have traveled internationally within the past 14 days. While the University of Miami is taking all precautions to safeguard our campus community, we cannot eliminate the risk of COVID-19 exposure and infection on campus. Please be reminded that you are undertaking your campus visit at your own risk. If any visitor presents symptoms and subsequently tests positive for COVID-19 within seven (7) business days of visiting campus, please report this information to the University of Miami Health System at 305-243-ONEU, Option 4. If you test positive for COVID-19 more than seven (7) business days from visiting campus, you do not need to report this information to us. Thank you in advance for your compliance with the aforementioned measures. Parking Information: Pavia Parking Garage 5615 Pavia Street Coral Gables, FL 33146 Location Information: Office of Undergraduate Admission 1306 Stanford Drive, Suite 1210 Coral Gables, FL 33146 Download the Campus Map for more information. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Undergraduate Admission 1306 Stanford Drive, Suite 1210 Coral Gables, FL 33146 TEL: 305-284-6000 TEL: 305-284-6000 FAX: 305-284-2507 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search myUM Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram tiktok Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback