Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Universal Need-Blind Policy More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Video of Need-Blind Admissions and International Students 12 January 2022 I am excited to share the news that Dartmouth College has expanded its longstanding need-blind admissions policy to include all international citizens. For any international applicant for whom affordability is an essential factor of a U.S. college search, our adoption of universal need-blind admissions means financial need will never limit access to a Dartmouth education. This more inclusive admissions policy is effective immediately and applies to all applicants for Dartmouth's Class of 2026 – including Early Decision candidates who were read and selected via a need-blind process last month as this policy change was anticipated. Our new admissions policy was made possible by a $40 million anonymous gift to expand global access at the College. The historic donation—the single largest scholarship gift in Dartmouth's 253-year history—capped a $90 million, multi-year fundraising goal to offer need-blind admissions to all non-U.S. citizens. This significant enhancement of our holistic admissions policy underscores our dedication to creating a globally-minded teaching and research community of students and faculty drawn from around the world. In doing so, Dartmouth becomes the sixth college or university in the United States with universal need-blind admissions paired with a commitment to meet 100 percent of demonstrated need. It is a dramatic institutional commitment to access and equity for all students, regardless of citizenship. In addition to this change in the College's admissions practices, Dartmouth recently announced two financial aid policies that also improve access to a Dartmouth education for all students. The first is the removal of a parent contribution for students from families with $65,000 USD or less in income and typical assets. The second: the guarantee of a full-tuition scholarship without loans for all students from families with incomes and typical assets of $125,000 USD or less. Both financial aid initiatives were adopted during the last few months and apply to all accepted candidates regardless of citizenship. We are living in the most international moment in human history. Students who are applying to and enrolling at Dartmouth today will have lives and careers that stretch to the 2070s and beyond, and our new admissions policy celebrates that global reality. International citizens are full and equal members of our applicant pool and, ultimately, our student body. It has been a career highlight as well as a personal honor to help frame this initiative at Dartmouth and to see its implementation today. Lee A. Coffin Vice Provost and Dean of Admissions & Financial Aid Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback