Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Parents Why Your Student Should Join Beaver Nation At Oregon State, we point to things that show not only the value of a college degree, but the value of earning it at Oregon State. Is your student already admitted? Check out these events to help with next steps! Listen to our Beaver Tracks Podcast – an inside perspective on Oregon State Admissions and what goes on in Beaver Nation. (English, Español) Why OSU? About Admissions Process Important Links Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Terminology Crime Statistics Admissions Profile Virtual Tour sonnenmair-wild1346.jpg Study Anything You want choices? We’ve got choices. With more than 200 majors to choose from, and world class faculty to teach them, your student is going to grow up to be exactly what they want to be. osu_05_30_-264.jpg Education's latest and greatest To us, creating state-of-the-art educational buildings and tools students can utilize is of top priority. Oregon State donations are focused on building, renovating or acquiring more than two dozen facilities for our students, faculty and all of Beaver Nation. Example: Our $50 million College of Business mecca, Austin Hall. lester_060517_0353.jpg Fitting in is easy We pride ourselves in being able to offer a lot of everything outside the classroom. Students can learn about other cultures through one of our seven cultural resource centers, or join one of our clubs (a whole lot to choose from) or intramural sports. They can hit sunny events in the quad, or join an academic research team. Everything is up for grabs. No cuts or limits. Información Importante en Español Beaver Tracks Podcast (English, Español) About OSU Out There globe_icon_50px.png 110 Countries Represented nation_icon_50px.png 50 States Represented oregon_icon_50px.png 19,142 Oregon Residents Total Students: 31,904 26,480 Undergraduate (23% first generation college students) 5,424 Graduate Who We Are Admissions Profile (mid-50%) Fall 2019 Men: 53% Women: 47% International Students 3,828 Students of color 7,976 First-year students 3,778 Average high school GPA of freshman class 3.63 Expenses 2020-2021 mu_icon_50px.png Resident Tuition: $12,165 Non-resident Tuition: $32,355 money_icon_50px.png Personal Expenses: $2,166 house_icon_50px.png Housing and Meals: $13,200 book_icon_50px.png Books and Supplies: $1,200 Important Links OSU and Admissions Transferring to OSU - OSU Transfer Course Search Transfer Credit Information AP/IB/CLEP Policies - Credit Opportunities, Earning advanced standing Credit Advising Prospective Student Athletes - Compliance and Eligibility Apply to OSU Beaver Basecamp Admissions Portal Visit the Corvallis Campus Visit the Cascades Campus Financial Aid Scholarship Services University Housing and Dining Services Student Involvement Diversity and Cultural Engagement New Student Programs: START Scholarships Scholarships for Newly-Admitted Students OSU ScholarDollars (for newly admitted and current OSU students) University Scholars Program Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) Third-Party Scholarships Financial Aid Cost and Aid Federal programs State and institutional programs Other programs Financial Aid Information for Families OSU Financial Aid Portal The Admissions Process It is our goal in the Office of Admissions to make the application process as smooth and transparent as possible. Please do not hesitate to encourage your students to contact the Office of Admissions directly at 800-291-4192. Timeline to College General Preparation Tips Grades Matter Maintaining a 3.0 GPA or higher will put you on the track for college. Maintaining a 3.5 GPA or higher is even better. Get Involved Join a club, play a sport, join a choir. Find what you are passionate about. This is the prime opportunity for you to practice your leadership skills. Volunteer Take the time to build your own character by helping others. These opportunities may open your eyes to your own career aspirations. Class Selection Take college preparatory courses. Math, Science, Social Studies, English, World Languages, Art & Music. Look into AP, IB or Honors opportunities. Knowledge in these core areas will prepare you for college level learning. Junior Year Visit, Visit, Visit This is the year to start exploring. Attend visitation programs, take tours, & ask questions. Learn what kind of campus fits you best. Contact our Visitor Center for more information: 541-737-2626 Maintain Your GPA Earning a 3.0 GPA or higher will put you on the track for college. Earning a 3.5 GPA or higher is even better. Senior Year Many universities offer fall visitation programs. This is a great opportunity to talk with an Admissions Advisor as you narrow down which schools you are applying to. Apply for Financial Aid. October of your senior year is when you will have access to the FAFSA. Please submit your FAFSA by February 28th. November/December OSU's priority application deadline is February 1st. However, we highly recommend that you apply much earlier. The earlier you apply the better. Submit Application (includes Insight Resume & Scholarship Application) Send SAT or ACT test scores to OSU (optional) OSU is test-optional and does not require the ACT or SAT exams. Submit all most recent transcripts If the Admission Decision = YES... Review our 'Next Steps' page for admitted students Stay up to date on the next steps for your student to join Beaver Nation! Attend an admitted student event Our programs take place throughout the winter and spring. Parents and students can speak with OSU staff from Financial Aid, University Housing and Dining Services, and Admissions. Invitations are sent to admitted students and parents. Pay your ATD The Advanced Tuition Deposit is a $200 payment on your Fall term tuition. By making this payment, you are indicating to us that you plan to enroll in the Fall. You must pay the ATD before you are allowed to sign up for START orientation. ATD details (including exemptions) can be found here. Apply for Housing The earlier you apply the more likely you are to get your first choice in housing. Where you live on campus is very important. You will need to submit your housing application, select a roommate and select your room. If you have more questions about housing please call 800.291.4192 Register for START, New Student Orientation Degree Partnership Programs Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram