Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open HackDartmouth Draws 80 Students Seeking Tech Solutions Posted on April 20, 2022 by Harini Barath News subtitle The weekend coding competition focused on such subjects as health and clean tech. Image Image Computer science professor Xia Zhou, left, judges students competing in HackDartmouth on the Diversifi team. (Photo by Julia Levine ’23) Body The seventh edition of HackDartmouth, an annual coding competition, was held at the MacLean Engineering Sciences Center this past weekend. Around 80 students gathered to brainstorm ideas and create innovative technology solutions that address issues in a variety of sectors—health care, climate, education and more. The 24-hour event, themed “Hack on your wild side,” had five categories for participating programmers to choose from: health and recovery, empowerment, augmented reality/virtual reality, cultural revitalization and clean tech. “This is the first in-person hackathon we’ve had in three years,” says Katherine Lasonde ’23, director of HackDartmouth, a student-led program. The event was cancelled in 2020 and held virtually last year owing to COVID-19 concerns. The contest usually welcomes participants across the country, but, out of an abundance of caution, was limited to Dartmouth students this year. Prizes, worth more than $10,000 in all, ranged from smart speakers and tablets to swag boxes from sponsors. The health and recovery stream was the most competitive category, says Lasonde. “A lot of people ended up gravitating towards mental wellness because it’s such a pertinent issue at this current time, especially among college students,” she says. This was evidenced in the entries that placed first and second in this category. Sadbird, created by Matthew Timofeev ’25, Eric Lu ’25, Aneesh Patnaik ’25, and Rishav Chakravarty ’25, flags negative and emotionally confusing tweets that users can choose to avoid. Elizabeth Frey ’24, Russell Chai ’24, and Annie Qiu ’24 designed WellBuddies, a digital buddy that provides customized suggestions to encourage students to prioritize their well-being. Ziray Hao ’22, Vivek Hazari ’22, Daniel DiPietro ’22, and John McCambridge ’22 bagged the prize in clean tech for Canary, a mobile app that promotes socially responsible investing by assessing the carbon footprint of a user’s investment portfolio. Plant Buddy and Greenlight were awarded first and second place in the empowerment category. The former, developed by Sherry Liu ’22, Ashna Kumar ’24, Madeleine Bernardeau ’22, and Chavin Udomwongsa ’24, helps users care for their plants better. The latter, made by Steven Mendley ’24, Jackson Desmond ’24, Tucker Simpson ’24, and Michael Mauricio ’24 is an app for Apple iPhones that manages entry of guests into Greek spaces on campus. The prize-winning entry in the AR/VR category was RemembVR, a virtual reality experience that builds nostalgic timelines for users from their photos and audio playlists. It was built by Julian Wu ’22, Brandy Zhang ’22, and Macy Toppan ’22. Benedict Tedjokusumo ’23 created Why We Eat, an app that provides customized local dining options. The app won second prize in the cultural revitalization category. The top winner in that category was Diversifi, a web app built by Ravin Anderson ’24, Julian George ’24, Andrew Chen ’24, and Alphonso Bradham ’24, that introduces users to new music from other cultures, using playlists to gauge their musical tastes. Many participants did not have a background in computer science, Lasonde notes. She hopes to see a bigger turnout at next year’s event, tentatively scheduled on April 15-16, 2023. Image Teams competed in HackDartmouth VII as students created projects over a 24-hour period. (Photo by Julia Levine ’23) Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback