Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Undergraduate Admissions Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy First-Year ApplicantsIt all starts here Transfer ApplicantsEasy transition Check Application Status Costs & Aid Apply for Aid Financial Aid Eligibility Costs to Attend Financial Aid Calculator Value of a Cornell Education Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Facts Frequently Asked Questions Cornell A-Z Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections You are here Home » Visit » Classroom Visits print share Facebook Twitter Classroom Visits Cornell University encourages prospective students, their families, and advocates to meet virtually through live sessions and recordings posted on our websites. Cornell has experienced great success with virtual outreach, bringing information and connection to students all around the world, and expects to continue these activities. You can also learn more through our FAQ page and reach us through our campus email addresses or by telephone with questions.  Please note that Cornell University does not track demonstrated interest. Visiting campus is not required nor expected of applicants. Students can articulate their fit and interest in Cornell through specific essay questions in the application. As of July 30, 2021, all faculty, staff, students and visitors are required to wear masks while inside campus buildings or facilities, regardless of vaccination status. We regret that due to campus COVID-19 restrictions, we are unable to welcome visitors into our classrooms at this time. Questions for Cornell University Undergraduate Admissions Our website remains the best place to learn about the opportunities that Cornell has to offer, and the steps students should take to apply for admission. To learn more about Cornell and our students, we invite you to stay connected and follow us on social media. You may still reach and engage admissions office staff, Monday through Friday, from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. EDT, via email at admissions@cornell.edu and by phone at 607-255-5241. We also invite you to use our searchable database of frequently asked questions (and answers). Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Us From your first questions about Cornell to the completion of your application, the Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you find the information you need. Website Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. University Privacy Statement Undergraduate Admissions Office Cornell University 410 Thurston Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 admissions@cornell.edu Tel: 607.255.5241 Fax: 607.255.0659 © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment Admitted Students