Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Enroll > PACE Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment The Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment (PACE) program offers alternate entrance to The University of Texas at Austin to select students. PACE participants spend their freshman year on the Forty Acres part-time, taking one class per semester at the university while completing the majority of their coursework at nearby Austin Community College (ACC) – Rio Grande. At the end of the year, those who successfully complete PACE requirements continue their undergraduate studies at The University of Texas at Austin full-time and on track for on-time graduation, and are automatically admissible to a number of majors in the College of Liberal Arts, College of Education, Moody College of Communication or the Steve Hicks School of Social Work. To accept the PACE offer and co-enroll: Complete the steps in the freshman After-Admission Checklist. Meet with a PACE advisor during Freshman Orientation to learn about other action you must take. Is PACE Right for Me? Prior college credit does not accelerate completion of your PACE requirements. PACE participants are not eligible to apply for transfer to colleges, schools or majors outside of approved majors in the College of Liberal Arts, College of Education, Moody College of Communication and the Steve Hicks School of Social Work. As a result, PACE may not be the best choice for all students. If you’re unsure about whether PACE is right for you, talk with an admissions counselor about your options. Related Information PACE Eligibility PACE Requirements PACE FAQs Next: Back to Enroll Admitted Students Go to Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022