Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Advising and Mentoring Freshman Seminars When Princeton students enroll in the freshman seminars “Chemistry of Magic,” “Art as Science/Science as Art” or “The Evolution of Language,” they experience what lies at the foundation of a Princeton education — intellectual inquiry. Each year, approximately 75 freshman seminars are offered to new students on a wide range of topics. The students’ main responsibility is to think deeply about the material and bring their ideas to the table. Each freshman seminar is limited to 15 students and is developed and taught by a member of Princeton’s renowned faculty, whose main role is to serve as a facilitator of ideas. Each freshman seminar is hosted by a residential college, which means that discussions started in the classroom can continue over meals or in other informal settings. Class discussions dictate their own direction and students are encouraged to argue, get inspired and be passionate. Both students and professors consistently cite freshman seminars as among their finest academic experiences at Princeton. Each semester brings new seminars to choose from, often with close ties to current events. Popular seminars in recent semesters have been: Active Geological Processes During a week-long trip to the Sierra Nevadas, students in this seminar observe changes in the Earth’s surface firsthand. Class meetings help students prepare for the trip and, afterward, provide a venue for presenting their findings and interpretations. Life on Mars — Or Maybe Not Following the thrill of a scientific discovery comes the difficulty of presenting it to the public. This seminar poses the question, “How reliable is science news?” and looks to understand the science behind the news reports, the factors that shape media coverage and ways in which that coverage tends to distort the findings. Cultural Revolutions of the 1960s From literature and comedy to journalism and war, this course surveys the upheaval of the 1960s, examines the major figures who acted as catalysts and traces their impact through the decades that followed. Ethics in Everyday Life Students are challenged to examine their values — and express them — in this seminar, while focusing on the ethical issues surrounding food, money, personal relationships, meaning and purpose, and the self. Polarized America: Ideology, Inequality and American Democracy Drawing on political science, history, economics and sociology, this seminar looks beyond the red state/blue state rhetoric to reveal more significant factors contributing to today’s sociopolitical climate. Underworlds Students in this course journey to underworlds as old as the eighth century B.C.E. and as recent as the 21st century — from Homer’s "Odyssey" to "The Sopranos" — at the same time examining the role of the underworld in epic literature and related cultural traditions. More About Freshman Seminars FRS 138: "Science, Society and Dinner" Play Video: FRS 138: "Science, Society and Dinner" Video of Freshman seminar bridges food, environment and culture Academics 70+ Freshman Seminars View the full roster Full content of https://odoc.princeton.edu/curriculum/freshman-seminars News Story Freshman seminar captures the hard work, tough calls of drug development Read the story Full content of https://www.princeton.edu/main/news/archive/S46/19/53K50/index.xml Undergraduate Blog My Freshman Seminar Experience By Roberto Hasbun Learn More Full content of /blogs/my-freshman-seminar-experience Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746