Skip to main content Go to the U of M home page One Stop MyU Search Office of Undergraduate Education Office of Admissions COVID-19 Updates SNEAK PREVIEW: Calling all rising seniors! Explore campus and discover your path as a Golden Gopher this summer at an on-campus Sneak Preview event. Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Freshman Admission Transfer Admission International Admission Admitted Students Contact our Counselors Forms, Publications & Resources Come Work With Us! Academics Academics Overview Majors Colleges at the U of M Special Programs Research Rankings Academics and Support Learning Communities High School Course Requirements Life at Minnesota Location Opportunities Housing Study Abroad Big Ten Diversity Cost & Aid Cost, Aid, & Scholarships Scholarships Financial Aid Reciprocity Visit Visit Us Virtual Tours and Visits Apply How to Apply Application Checklist Missing Information Application Tracker Confirm Confirm Family & Counselor Info Parent & Family Resources School Counselors Breadcrumb Home Cost & Aid Cost, Aid, & Scholarships Cost, Aid, and Scholarships Imagine the fantastic academic training you will receive to help you achieve your dreams. Imagine being a student at a world-class research university. Imagine the incredible opportunities you will find in a dynamic metropolitan area. Imagine the exhilarating atmosphere you will experience at a Big Ten campus. And imagine earning a prestigious degree from one of the nation's top public universities, all for a great value. You'll find all of this at the University of Minnesota Twin Cities. Using the University's Net Price Calculator, you can get a sense of the types of need-based aid for which you may be eligible. This calculator is intended to assist you in your college planning. Net Price Calculator Please note: Calculations reflect tuition and fees for the 2021-2022 academic year. Keep in mind: The University also awards a number of merit-based scholarships, which are not factored into the Net Price Calculator. Merit-based scholarships are awarded based on an overall assessment of a complete freshman admission application. Please visit our scholarships page for more information on these merit-based awards. Financial Aid Scholarships Reciprocity Costs, Scholarships, and Visas for International Students Cost of Attendance Information for National Merit Semifinalists Resources for Undocumented & DACA Students Office of Admissions | Office of Undergraduate Education Contact Us Email: Contact Us General Office: 612-625-2008 or 1-800-752-1000 Visit and Events Office: 612-625-0000 Fax: 612-626-1693 Follow Us Mailing Address 240 Williamson Hall 231 Pillsbury Drive S.E Minneapolis, MN 55455-0213 United States Resources Request Info Parents & Family High School Counselors Admissions Counselor Student Tour Guide Our commitment to improving diversity, equity, inclusion, and social justice. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue | Title IX © 2021 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Ethics Statement The University of Minnesota is a proud member of the National Association for College Admission Counseling (NACAC), which values and is committed to practicing ethical behavior in college admissions. For Students, Faculty, and Staff One Stop MyU © 2022 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement Report Web Disability-Related Issue Admissions Admissions Overview Freshman Admission Transfer Admission International Admission English Proficiency Information International Transfer Credit Evaluation Admitted Students Contact our Counselors Forms, Publications & Resources Come Work With Us! Academics Academics Overview Majors Colleges at the U of M Special Programs Research Rankings Academics and Support Learning Communities High School Course Requirements Life at Minnesota Location Opportunities Housing Study Abroad Big Ten Diversity Cost & Aid Cost, Aid, & Scholarships Scholarships Information for National Merit Semifinalists Financial Aid Reciprocity Visit Visit Us Campus Driving and Parking Directions Virtual Tours and Visits Apply How to Apply Application Checklist Missing Information Application Tracker Confirm Confirm Family & Counselor Info Parent & Family Resources School Counselors