Jump to content Apply Visit Give Navigation Admissions Search form Search Main menu Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Anthropology Undergraduate degrees: BA or BS Undergraduate minor About the major At the UO’s Department of Anthropology, you can learn about various cultures and populations, dig up fossils, study gorillas, hunt for ancient relics, and more. Pursue your specific interests through our three anthropological subfields: cultural anthropology, biological anthropology, and archaeology. You will be taught by working anthropologists who study societies from the past and present in West Africa, East Africa, Latin America, North America, East Asia, South Asia, Southeast Asia, Oceania, and the Caribbean. Learn about the human species from ecological and evolutionary perspectives, and gain a deeper understanding of human biological variation and our relation to other animals. You can participate in field schools that travel across the world digging for artifacts, and go abroad to study international cultures. A little more info Specialize in one of our subfields—cultural anthropology, archaeology, or biological anthropology—or combine them for an interdisciplinary approach such as biocultural anthropology or bioarchaeology. Earn internships and employment opportunities with the UO Museum of Natural and Cultural History, and work on research projects with professors and graduate students. Analyze and document artifacts from actual project sites in the Americas, Pacific Islands, East Asia, Southeast Asia, West Africa, and more. Gain experience in cutting edge molecular analyses of DNA, hormones, and isotopes. Explore connections between bones and behavior to better understand human evolutionary biology and primate ecology. Career opportunities A degree in anthropology shows your appreciation of cultural differences and an ability to work with and relate to people from various walks of life. In today’s world, employers value these abilities. Anthropology graduates find employment in business, social service organizations, nonprofits, museums, political organizations, and education. Biological anthropology students can find work in laboratories, zoos, and forensic science, while archaeology students have worked at the Forest Service, in contract archaeology, and more. Cultural anthropology students have had jobs in adoption agencies and political action. Graduates of our program have gone on to graduate school in anthropology, medical school, and law school. A degree in anthropology offers flexibility after college and teaches you skills that relate to many job fields. Learn More Resources Find Your Counselor UO Facts Campus Safety Residency En Español RESOURCES Campus Safety En Español Find Your Counselor Forms Regional Accreditation Request Info Status Portal Admissions 1217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Oregon Hall P: 800-BE-A-DUCK F: 541-346-5815 P: 541-346-3201 - Text Contact Us admissions@uoregon.edu Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Visit us on Instagram Accessibility Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination. Site Navigation Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Take Action Apply Visit Give