Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Dartmouth Values Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report We Are What We Do Dartmouth College, one of the original nine chartered colonial colleges of America, was founded in 1769 on traditional, unceded Abenaki land along the Connecticut River in New Hampshire. Its founder, The Rev. Eleazar Wheelock, was joined by The Rev. Samson Occom, an ordained minister of the Mohegan Tribe, to dedicate the new school to educating Native American students. To build and sustain a new college in the wilderness, Rev. Wheelock made use of the uncompensated labor of his enslaved men and women of African descent. Later funding for the College came from private sources tied to profits from the Atlantic slave trade. After the founding years, the initial vision to educate Native students gave way to an exclusive focus on young men of European descent. The first class of four white men graduated in 1771 to mark the beginning of Dartmouth's distinction as the only colonial college to conduct its educational mission without interruption through the American Revolution to the present. To the undergraduates' numbers were added students of African descent, who were admitted continuously beginning in 1824, four decades before other Ivy League institutions followed suit. In 1972, the College began the transition to full coeducation. Two years earlier, Dartmouth had revived its founding commitment to Native American students. The Indigenous community is now a visible and valued presence on Dartmouth's campus, with students from more than 70 tribal nations and communities. The legacy of Dartmouth's mission has expanded to foster an inclusive and vibrant college community—with four thriving graduate and professional schools—that embrace principles of equity for all peoples of this diverse world. To educate ethical citizens, a university must be driven by a set of values embraced by the entire community. At Dartmouth, we integrate our core values into our curriculum, our culture, and our campus so that students, staff, and faculty live those principles. Here's what that looks like day-to-day at Dartmouth: We expect academic excellence, encourage independent thought, and promote a robust culture of interdisciplinary collaboration. We support a faculty of scholars who are leaders in their fields, passionate about teaching, and committed to mentorship and collaboration with their students. We recruit and admit outstanding students from all backgrounds, regardless of their financial means, so that finances are never a barrier to admission. We build a diverse community of faculty and students and leverage that diversity to enrich and deepen the education of our future global citizens. We foster lifelong bonds among faculty, staff, and students to encourage a culture of integrity, collaboration, and collegiality. We instill in students a sense of responsibility for one another and for the broader world, and give them ample opportunities to share their expertise and passions. We promote the vigorous and open debate of ideas while encouraging mutual respect for diverse opinions. We provide comprehensive out-of-classroom experiences, including service opportunities, international study, and global engagement. For generations, Dartmouth graduates have left Hanover with an unerring set of principles that they have carried into the world as leaders in government, industry, academia, journalism, and many other realms. In every field of endeavor and every area of expertise, our alumni are distinguished by their embrace of collaboration, their commitment to creating a vibrant community, and their loyalty to Dartmouth and to their fellow alumni. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback