Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Transfer Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Apply Home Apply Admission to majors Dates and deadlines Freshman How to apply Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Parents & Families Preparing for college Running Start Transfer How to apply Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Transfer GPA Transfer credit policies WA CC Equivalency Guide Transfer planning resources Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Postbaccalaureate How to apply Military Transfer students are an important part of the UW community. We look forward to learning what you will bring to our campus. Check out other transfer resources on the UW’s transfer student portal website. What you need to know: Key dates & deadlines Quarter of application Quarter begins Application opens Application deadline Notification period Winter* Early January August 1 September 1 November 1 – December 15 Autumn Late September December 15 February 15 May 1 – June 30 Spring** Late March November 1 December 15 N/A Summer*** Mid-June December 15 February 15 May 1 – 31 *Winter quarter is open to U.S. transfer applicants only. International student applications not accepted. **Spring quarter is not open for general admission. Spring quarter is open only to applicants to specific departments in engineering and computer science. ***Choosing summer means you wish to being regular enrollment in the summer and continue into autumn as a degree-seeking student. If you choose summer admission and fail to attend summer quarter, your autumn admission and registration are cancelled. To apply for summer quarter as a non-degree student, contact Summer Quarter. How to apply Good preparation for your intended major is the best way to prepare for admission at the UW, but it’s only part of what we’ll be looking at. Learn more about how to apply. Transfer information sessions Hear directly from an admissions counselor about the transfer process. Virtual or in person, check the calendar for dates, times and location. Holistic review Holistic review is a comprehensive assessment of your academic performance, personal qualities, and achievements. Transfers by the numbers At the UW, you are more than test scores and a GPA, but we know you’re curious about the numbers anyway. CADRs All freshman and transfer applicants must complete a minimum level of preparation in six subject areas. This requirement ensures that students entering the UW have an appreciation for the liberal arts and are adequately prepared to succeed in college. Learn more about CADRs. Subject Credits required English 4 Mathematics 3 Social Sciences/Social Studies 3 World Languages 2 Lab Science 2 Senior year Math-Based Quantitative Course 1 Fine, Visual or Performing Arts .5 Academic Elective .5 English proficiency (international students only) International students are required to submit an official TOEFL or IELTS score that meets the UW’s minimum English proficiency requirement. Transfer GPA The Office of Admissions calculates a GPA that is considered in the assessment of your application. Learn more about what is and is not included in that calculation. Exams for credit Did you participate in Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate (IB) or A Level & AS Level exams? The UW encourages and applauds participation in any of these programs. They are challenging and demanding, and we believe they provide excellent preparation for university study. Find details and useful links below. Advanced Placement (AP) International Baccalaureate (IB) A Level & AS Level exams Transfer credit policies Wondering what credits will transfer to the UW? Learn more about our transfer credit policies. Admission to majors Your admission to a major at the UW depends on the major you are interested in and your application type. Learn more about admission to majors. Transfer planning resources These online transfer planning resources will help you make a more efficient transfer to the UW. Homeschool policies We welcome applications from homeschool students. Please review our transfer homeschool guidelines so you’re ready to go. I applied. Now what? We appreciate the time and effort that you put into your application to the UW. We want to make sure what comes next is as clear and efficient as possible. Home Apply Admission to majors Dates and deadlines Freshman How to apply Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Parents & Families Preparing for college Running Start Transfer How to apply Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Transfer GPA Transfer credit policies WA CC Equivalency Guide Transfer planning resources Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Postbaccalaureate How to apply Military Resources What is my application type WA CC Equivalency Guide Disability resources Freshman viewbook – interactive version Freshman viewbook – pdf Transfer viewbook Deadlines December 15: Transfer autumn application opens February 15: Transfer autumn application deadline May + June: Transfer autumn notification period University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA