Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission QuestBridge QuestBridge connects the nation's brightest underserved youth with leading institutions of higher education. Brown is delighted to be part of this very successful and worthy program. QuestBridge QuestBridge connects the nation's brightest underserved youth with leading institutions of higher education. Brown is delighted to be part of this very successful and worthy program. Students applying to Brown through QuestBridge can find more information about this process on the QuestBridge website. The following materials are required by November 1 in addition to your QuestBridge application: Brown Questionnaire - Once your QuestBridge Application is forwarded to Brown, we will email you with instructions to activate your Brown Applicant Portal. When you activate your portal, you will be asked to complete the Brown Questionnaire and respond to Brown-specific short answer questions. CSS/Financial Aid Profile Please note that you may receive a request from the Office of Financial Aid for additional information. Rest assured that if you do not receive a request, the Office of Financial Aid has enough information to provide an estimated financial aid award at the time of admission. A request for additional information should not be interpreted as an indication of a pending College Match. Brown is test optional for the 2022-23 admission cycle: Brown is test optional for all applicants in the 2022-2023 admission cycle. Students who choose to share standardized test scores are welcome to do so, and those who do not submit SAT or ACT scores should be assured that they will not be disadvantaged in our admission process. If you do have scores you would like to share, you may submit them unofficially by sharing them through your QuestBridge application or uploading them through your Brown Applicant Portal. You may also request official scores from the College Board and/or ACT. Do NOT use the rush reporting service. Students who submit unofficial scores will be asked to submit official scores should they choose to matriculate. Applicants are encouraged to submit a video introduction: Once logged in to your Brown Applicant Portal, you will be given the option to submit a two-minute personal video introduction. The video introduction gives you an opportunity to tell us more about yourself, in your voice, beyond the information you provided in your application. Sharing a video is a helpful way to show us who you are and why you are interested in attending Brown. Check out our Video Introduction FAQ to learn more about this optional component of the admission process. The QuestBridge Match at Brown is binding: Students who are admitted to Brown through the QuestBridge Match are committing to attend. If you are admitted to Brown under the Match Program, you must withdraw all applications to other colleges or universities. First-Year Applicants To apply to Brown, complete the Common Application and Brown Member section online. Visit Page Open details for First-Year Applicants International Applicants Every year Brown welcomes students from around the world. In fact, about 15 percent of our students come from abroad. Visit Page Open details for International Applicants All Application Options Visit Page Open details for All Application Options Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search QuestBridge Open details for QuestBridge Bookmark this Page