Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Tulio Huggins Class of 2023 back Click to Close Bio Hi guys! The name's Tulio (yes, like the guy from Rio) Huggins, and I am a '23! I am from the beautiful state of Pennsylvania, where I have lived for the past couple of years. I am double majoring in History and English with a concentration in Creative Writing. In my free time, I love to hang out with friends at Dartmouth Apologia, my fraternity, and in Aquinas House! Feel free to ask any questions you might have. I hope that you all have a blessed day! Academic Program History & English with Concentration in Creative Writing Favorite Thing Right Now Hanging out with my fraternity brother and hanging out in Aquinas House! Hometown Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania Pronouns He/him/his About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Work Hard, Play Hard: A Green Key Weekend at Dartmouth! back Click to Close Tulio's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallOn Campus Favorite Class: HIST 2: #EverythingHasAHistory: Understanding America Today This history class is dedicated to investigating the history behind current events. In this term, we looked at the history behind immigration, Silicon Valley, and affirmative action. And in the final weeks of the term, we were able to choose what we wanted to learn about, and we chose to look at the history of impeachment. It is a very cool class with great class discussions. I would highly recommend! WinterOn Campus Favorite Class: COSC 1: Introduction to Programming and Computation COSC 1 is an intro to Computer Science course. I had never taken a CS course, so learning the new Python language was definitely tough! Even so, I learned so much about how to code, and the help provided by TAs and the professors is invaluable in this course! SpringOnline Favorite Class: AAAS 80.08: African American Religion and Culture in Jim Crow America This was the first class I ever took in the African and African American Studies and Religion Department. It opened my eyes to the various ways African Americans in the Jim Crow era survived when the world was stacked up against them. I would highly recommend! Sophomore Year Click to Open FallOn-Campus! Favorite Class: CRWT 10: Introduction to Fiction This was my first creative writing class ever! It was great to create new works and get feedback from my classmates and my professor. WinterOn-Campus! Favorite Class: HIST 45: Early Modern Europe 1300-1650 An interesting class where we focused on the spread of literature during this time period. Also one of my smallest classes; only five other classmates! SpringOn-Campus! Favorite Class: CRWT 20: Intermediate Fiction I Another Creative Writing course! I wonder if I am doing something with that with my major :) Junior Year Click to Open FallLondon! Favorite Class: Creative Writing Prose: The Short Story This class was a creative writing class, and it gave me a lot of insight into what I as an author should want my readers to do when they confront the piece. It was an amazing class, and it was so cool to be able to take it in London! WinterOn-Campus Favorite Class: REL 34: Christianity and Conversion in the Northern World: Vikings, Celts, and Anglo-Saxons My desire to learn about religion and history was thoroughly fulfilled in this class, where we looked at the various Christian conversions in different European areas. I learned a lot, and I really loved the prof's lectures! SpringOn-Campus I'm not taking any classes this term! Instead, I am doing a fellowship through the Leslie Center for Humanities, where I am writing an interconnected short story collection set in an evangelical church youth group. « All Posts by this Blogger Work Hard, Play Hard: A Green Key Weekend at Dartmouth! This week has been a whirlwind from beginning to end! After two years, Dartmouth's annual spring festival, known affectionately as Green Key, occurred this weekend! The weekend held many events, but even so, I saw the Dartmouth culture of work hard, play hard. There are many concerts that occur during Green Key, with a couple of big headliners during the main night on Friday. This Green Key, the main concert had rapper Doechii, band Saint Motel, and rapper Kyle, all performing some of their biggest songs to a huge crowd close to Baker Berry Library! There were also other smaller concerts, with bands such as ParrotFish and NOTD performing, as well as student bands. Saint Motel played my favorite song by them, "Sisters"! I had a blast going to the different concerts, especially as this was my first ever Green Key. However, I also realized my work needed to get done (who would have thought?) So, throughout Green Key, there were times I dipped into the and worked on my fellowship, adding some narrative to make my story fuller and gripping. Not only that, but some of my other tasks, such as emailing my department or contacting someone for prayer requests, also were completed during Green Key. My friend in the middle is actually in the same room as I write this also doing her work! It was interesting, however, to see other people in how they prepared academically for Green Key. Some did their work in the week leading up to Green Key, getting their work done before the festivities began. Some did a little bit throughout, and some left it for after the celebrations. Dartmouth culture is very much like this. People have fun, whether by going down to the river, hanging out in a frat, or doing their club sport, but they also focus on their work. The library is often full of students, students who are passionate about their studies, but who all have a social life outside of their studies! Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/29/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts academics; green key Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Posts You Might Like Visit the Blog A Letter to Freshman Year With freshman year coming to a close, I wrote a Thank You note to one of the best years! Read More Caroline York 2025 Goodbye, 22S Happy last week of classes! Here are some of my reflections from my junior spring. Read More Love Tsai 2023 Greenkey: dancing in a field to internationally famous mucisians in Hanover! Dartmouth has too many traditions to name, but Greenkey is one of the best ones! Read on to find out about my experience this year! Read More Luke Grayson 2025 Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Taking my Professor to Lunch! Here's a reflection on my experience taking my computer science professor out for a free meal paid for by the school! Read More Jack Heaphy 2024 Saint Motel Meets Hanover: Green Key 2022! As the 23s, 24s, and 25s shared our first Green Key together, Dartmouth ended up bringing my middle-school self's favorite band to campus: here's how my Green Key went! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Green Key!!!!!! It's a Dartmouth tradition to celebrate Green Key every spring. What exactly is Green Key you ask? In short, it is one of the best weekends ever. Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 Green Key 2022! Last week was week 8 of spring term at Dartmouth, which means only one thing: Green Key! Read More Love Tsai 2023 '22 Spring: Week 8 Reflections Here are some reflections and thoughts I had undergoing my last term of freshman year! Read More Daniel Kang 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback