Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University Michigan State University Request information For counselors My account Office of Admissions Academics Overview Majors, degrees and programs Career interest areas Honors programs Living-learning communities Research Education abroad Entrepreneurship Academic support Graduate programs More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours | Life at MSU Overview Living and dining Diversity Campus safety Health and wellness Getting around campus East Lansing Chat with a current student to learn about life at MSU. Get connected | Cost and aid Overview Tuition and fees Financial aid Return on investment Student employment Freshman scholarships Transfer scholarships International scholarships Review tuition and fees See detailed costs | Visit Overview Visit options Virtual tour Academic department visits Maps and directions Travel and accommodations Take a tour of campus Explore visit options | Apply Freshman applicants Transfer applicants International applicants Graduate applicants Agricultural Technology Certificate applicants Non-degree applicants College planning guide Information for counselors See where you stand in the admissions process, and keep it moving forward. Check application status | Admitted Overview Freshman next steps Transfer next steps International next steps Submit your deposit to secure your spot at MSU Submit deposit | Contact Office of Admissions Academics Life at MSU Cost and aid Visit Apply Admitted Contact < Academics Overview Majors, degrees and programs Career interest areas Honors programs Living-learning communities Research Education abroad Entrepreneurship Academic support Graduate programs More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours < Life at MSU Overview Living and dining Diversity Campus safety Health and wellness Getting around campus East Lansing Chat with a current student to learn about life at MSU. Get connected < Cost and aid Overview Tuition and fees Financial aid Return on investment Student employment Freshman scholarships Transfer scholarships International scholarships Review tuition and fees See detailed costs < Visit Overview Visit options Virtual tour Academic department visits Maps and directions Travel and accommodations Take a tour of campus Explore visit options < Apply Freshman applicants Transfer applicants International applicants Graduate applicants Agricultural Technology Certificate applicants Non-degree applicants College planning guide Information for counselors See where you stand in the admissions process, and keep it moving forward. Check application status < Admitted Overview Freshman next steps Transfer next steps International next steps Submit your deposit to secure your spot at MSU Submit deposit Request information For counselors My account Admissions > Request information Request information Want to find out more about what life is like as a Spartan? We have the most up-to-date information you need on your journey to become a Spartan and join the MSU community. If you're a prospective undergraduate student, sign up to receive important and timely information about MSU and the application process. You'll also receive admissions materials, access to invite-only events and deadline reminders. We promise not to flood your inbox — the whole point is for you to get the right information at the right time so you can make well-informed decisions about your future. Have a specific question? Contact your admissions counselor or our office. We're always happy to help! Parents/guardians, graduate students and high school counselors can also find more information through the links below. Undergraduate Prospective undergraduate students can sign up to stay connected with MSU. Request information Graduate Prospective graduate students must directly contact the grad department/program of their interest for more information. Contact grad school Parents/guardians Parents and guardians are encouraged to contact the Office of Admissions directly. They can also contact their student's admissions counselor based on school. Contact admissions Counselors High school counselors and other advisers of prospective students can sign up for updates on MSU admissions and invites to counselor-specific events. Request information Languages Português 中文 Bahasa Indonesia 한국어 Español العربية ภาษาไทย Türkçe Tiếng Việt pусский Resources Collaborative Learning Center Disability resources Academic programs catalog Our Commitment Diversity MSU social media directory Find people Maps Phone (517) 355-8332 Email admis@msu.edu Address 426 Auditorium Road, Room 250, East Lansing, MI 48824 Contact your counselor Request information Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact information | Site map | Privacy statement | Site accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University