Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Apply > Selecting a Major Selecting a Major Choosing a major is an exciting process. Think about your interests and strengths, not just what you hope to do as a career. Remember that your major won't necessarily determine your career later on, so spend some time researching what we offer before you decide. Major Selection First-Choice Major We encourage you to select a first-choice major that is aligned with your interests and strengths, not just what you hope to do as a career. Second-Choice Major You may be considered for your second-choice major if you qualify for automatic admission and are not admitted to your first-choice major. Major Exploration Want to know more about available majors? Check out Wayfinder to explore your interests and the university’s majors all in one spot. Major Questions If you have questions about the major that's best for you, use our Counselor Finder to contact the UT Austin Admissions counselor working with your high school. Additional Major Information Freshman Honors Programs are open only to students who apply to certain majors. Many majors offer admission only to the fall semester. Some majors have prerequisites or suggested preparatory coursework. Double Majors and Minors Want a double major? That’s something you’ll see about once you’re a student at UT Austin. When you apply for admission, select the major you want most and plan to speak with your academic advisor about a double major after you begin classes. The same is true for students who are interested in minors. You’ll make decisions about a minor with help from your academic advisor after you begin classes. Major Changes To request a different major after you apply for admission, log in to MyStatus. There may be limits on the number of change requests you can submit, and on the periods during which you can submit a request. Next: Back to Apply Go to Admission Honors Housing admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022