Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Application Checklist Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Home Schooled Students Princeton welcomes applications from home schooled students. Although they still make up a very small portion of the applicant pool, applications from home schooled students have been increasing. We recognize that your experience as a home schooled student will be somewhat different from students in traditional schools. We'll look at your academic record and nonacademic interests and commitments within the context of your particular home school curriculum and experience. We understand that for many home schooled students there is not as clear a distinction between academic and nonacademic activities as there might be for students in a traditional high school. The more you can document for us and describe what you have done during your high school years, academically and otherwise, the better. Feel free to go beyond the questions on our application forms if they don't cover everything you think is important for us to know. There may also be questions that simply don't apply in the case of a home schooled student (for instance, our question about class rank on the School Report). You and others completing forms on your behalf may leave those questions blank. Below are some tips addressing aspects of the application process that may be somewhat different for home schooled students. Before you begin preparing your application, we encourage you to review our application checklist, standardized testing policy (Please see COVID-19 Update for complete changes to the 2021-22 cycle.) and financial aid program. If after reading these pages you have additional questions, we encourage you to contact our office. If you are a home schooled student living outside the United States, please also see our information for international applicants. Graded Written Paper The graded written paper can be graded and commented upon by whomever your teacher is in your course (including your parent). Please refer to general requirements for the graded written paper. References It's most helpful if your teacher and counselor references come from three different adults who can comment on your intellectual curiosity, academic preparation and promise, and extracurricular involvement. Some home schooled applicants ask a parent to complete the School Report, and they ask others who have known them in an academic context to complete the teacher references. If you have taken any high school or college courses, or had a teacher other than a parent in a particular subject, we encourage you to ask those professors or teachers to write your teacher references. Academic Preparation and Transcript In general, we look for students who have challenged themselves with rigorous study in a range of academic areas during their high school years, but the exact course of study varies among our successful applicants. Please provide us with detailed information about the academic program you have pursued. If you aren't able to provide a traditional transcript of course grades, include an outline of your high school curriculum. Many home schooled students also send us a reading list. If you have taken any courses at a school, college, online or by correspondence, please be sure to have official transcripts sent to the Undergraduate Admission Office. Learn more about academic preparation. SAT and ACT Please see COVID-19 Update for complete changes to the 2021-22 cycle. For the 2021-22 application cycle, due to the lack of access to testing sites, Princeton will not require submission of standardized testing (SAT or ACT). We do not require the submission of SAT Subject Tests, Announcement Princeton will not release admission data during the early action, regular decision and transfer admission cycles. University News Princeton marks more than 50 years of kosher dining on campus See All News Princeton Research Day Play Video: Princeton Research Day Video of Princeton Research Day Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746