Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Be part of something bigger https://admissions.temple.edu/visit Visit Browse our options for in-person and virtual campus tours and information sessions. CTA to Visit page https://admissions.temple.edu/apply Apply Discover everything you need to know about applying to Temple as a first-year, transfer or international student. Request information from Temple University. /costs-aid-scholarships Tuition We’re committed to keeping a Temple education affordable. Explore our aid and scholarship opportunities. Link to Cost, Aid and Scholarships page. Meet Philadelphia’s public university. When you choose Temple, you’re choosing the only public research institution in Philadelphia. You’re choosing an incubator for thought and innovation, and you’re joining the ranks of talented students, researchers and experts from around the world. Here, you’ll challenge yourself (in the best possible way) to take on big problems, have constructive conversations and cultivate strong relationships. Most importantly, you’ll become part of a global community known for its insatiable drive and perseverance. R1 Carnegie classification (highest research activity) Top 50 public schools among national universities, U.S. News and World Report 2022 150+ undergraduate majors 13-1 student-faculty ratio 123 countries represented in the student body Apply to Temple At Temple, you’ll find a thriving and diverse community where no opportunity is out of reach. Whether you’re getting ready for your first year of college or transferring from another university, we invite you to learn more about us and apply for admission. Apply as a first-year student. Transfer from another university. Apply as an international student. Visit Our Campus Discover for yourself all we have to offer. Explore our cutting-edge labs, classrooms and residence halls, talk to our students and faculty, and walk our green campus here in the heart of Philadelphia. Explore our campus. Visit as a transfer student. Take a tour from anywhere in the world. Dates to Remember Nov 01 Fall first-year Early Action application deadline Feb 01 FAFSA priority filing deadline Feb 01 Fall first-year Regular Decision application deadline Jun 01 Fall transfer student application deadline Jennifer Hall ’21 Psychology Major “Studying abroad helps you develop your critical-thinking skills and makes you get out of your comfort zone. If you’re living in the U.S., you’ll start to think more globally rather than having tunnel vision.” Explore study away programs. Niccolas Uff ’22 Media Studies Major “I learned very quickly because one of the advantages of Temple is that they allow you to get involved when you’re a freshman, and that’s different from a lot of other schools that I applied to.” Explore career resources. Learn more. Find your major We offer more than 150 majors in a variety of areas. Explore our programs using the degree search tool and find the one you’ll call home. Learn more. Link to Degrees and Programs page. /student-life See yourself here At Temple, our students are always on the go—from getting involved in student activities to exploring everything Philadelphia has to offer. Discover endless opportunities and what your life will look like as an Owl. Link to Temple's Student Life section. Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info