Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Undergraduate Admissions Admissions right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) right arrow down arrow Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow In-Person Campus Tour right arrow down arrow Visitor Guidelines Campus Parking and Walking Directions Group Visit Self-Guided Visit Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First NEXT Innovation Scholarship Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media Admissions » Information for... » High School Students Info for... High School Students Application Information Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) SRAR FAQ Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Test-Optional FAQ Test Plan Choice Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students Application Requirements First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition Scholarships Global Scholarship Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students High School Students Hey future Bearcats! This page will be your go-to spot for everything you’ll need to successfully apply to the University of Cincinnati. It’s important to know all of the pieces of your UC application and our timeline for admission. Explore some of the links below to learn more about how to successfully apply to become a part of the Bearcat Family! Meet Your Admissions Counselor Our staff is here to help, and you have an admissions counselor specifically devoted to helping YOU! Get in touch with your admissions counselor today! Visit UC... ...from wherever you are We’ll be offering virtual visits year-round. Register for a virtual visit or check out our virtual tour. ...in person Whenever possible, we'll be welcoming students to campus. Register for an upcoming visit. Application Process Common Application Complete UC's fall 2022 application using the Common Application. Application Process and Timeline It’s important to know all of the pieces of your UC application and our timeline for admission. Application Process and Timeline Application Information Application FAQ Each year, some University of Cincinnati majors receive a high number of applications and will close to first-year students before the March 1 Rolling Admission Deadline. Review this year's list of closed programs for fall 2022 before beginning your application. Test Optional We recognize that changes to test availability and testing environments due to the COVID-19 pandemic left many students with inequitable access to standardized tests. UC was proud to offer test-optional admission to students applying for the fall 2021 term and will continue the two-year pilot for applicants for fall 2022 to ensure equitable opportunity for admission. For more information, check out our FAQ web page. Early Action Our Early Action Deadline is a non-binding deadline that allows students to be granted consideration for all UC scholarships, the University Honors Program, and our most competitive academic colleges listed below: College of Nursing College of Medicine College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Engineering and Applied Sciences College-Conservatory of Music Lindner College of Business Finding Your Fit There’s a lot that goes into the process of choosing a college, even beyond the visit or the application. Here are some other resources that may be important to you as you're deciding where to start your college journey. Student Experience From living on campus, to getting involved in student organizations, or exploring your future career through co-op or research, you will never be bored at UC. See what campus life is like and everything that makes up the Bearcat experience. Choosing a Major  Take a look at our Undergraduate Program Finder to explore over 350 academic programs offered at UC. Find your major today. Financing Your College Degree Understanding your financial situation is an important step in the process of applying to colleges. The links below will help you understand all the resources you have available to help fund your education. Tuition Rate and Tuition Guarantee Financial Aid Scholarships National Outreach Award (out-of-state students) Special Tuition Rates (Indiana and Kentucky students) Connect With Us! Unique Admissions Circumstances Information for international students Information for home school students Information for students who have earned a GED Information for students who have DACA status Information about requesting to defer your application to a future semester Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top