Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Careers Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Academics Home Academics Careers Experiential learning Honors Majors Understanding your assigned major Understanding your assigned major Study Abroad Research Course catalog Pre-Law Pre-Health University of Washington Huskies graduate with the skills, experience, professional connections and academic knowledge to pursue careers that lead to personal fulfillment, financial wellness and positive contributions to workplaces and communities. You may know exactly what you want to do after graduation, you may have no idea or you may fall somewhere in the middle. Regardless, we’ve got you covered with resources to meet you where you are. Be inspired Investigate careers by interest areas Access videos, guidebooks, blogs, sample job titles, in-demand skill lists, podcasts and more in eight broad career areas. Find your community Find purpose with PathwayU Take assessments to gain insights on your interests and values, and then explore majors and careers that fit. Pathway U Fast facts 94% of recent graduates agree their UW experience prepared them to achieve their career goals 81% of students are employed or in graduate school within 6 months of graduation Get hired Level up: Build skills employers want Employers have identified core skills that are critical to students’ success in the workplace. We help students build these skills and provide registered students with free access to LinkedIn Learning, an on-demand video learning platform for developing academic and career skills. Build skills Find an internship Creating career-building experiences for students is a core driver of our work. We coach students on how to find and maximize internships; employers on how to hire and support interns; campus managers on how to create internship opportunities; and academic departments on how to manage internship courses. Internships Did you know...? 68% of students graduate with internship experience 12,000+ internship postings yearly Connect with employers Husky graduates are sought after by a wide range of employers — large and small, for profit and not for profit Learn more The UW employs a hybrid approach to providing Huskies with the career support they need. There are both comprehensive and college-based career services available. Comprehensive career services The Career & Internship Center is the UW’s comprehensive career center, serving undergraduates, graduate students and recent graduates in all fields. Additionally, the UW Alumni Association offers future alumni a range of career-building opportunities. College-based career services Several UW colleges, like the Foster School of Business, provide career advising, facilitate career-building opportunities, connect students with employers, or some combination thereof. Check out a list of college-based career resources Fast facts 1,000+ unique employers hire graduates each year 34,000+ job postings yearly University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA