Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Eddie S. Glaude Jr. Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Eddie S. Glaude Jr. African American Studies and Religion Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Advising and Mentoring For his students, there’s no question Eddie Glaude Jr. is a dedicated teacher. “I’m a liberal arts professor at heart,” says Glaude, who teaches in the religion department and the Department of African American Studies. “I came to Princeton because of its emphasis on undergraduate education.” Glaude is especially proud of having encouraged some of his best students to pursue careers as teachers. Students see Glaude’s passion for teaching in the classroom, in courses such as “Black Power and Its Theology of Liberation” and “Religion and the Tradition of Social Theory.” Later, if they work with Glaude on their senior theses, they get an opportunity to join a unique learning partnership. For Glaude, it’s definitely a situation of give and take. He’s cited students’ research in his own work, and even used a student’s thesis as an epigraph for his latest book. “If you have a wonderful relationship with a student,” he says, “you want to generate an environment where you’re engaged in the exchanging of ideas. You don’t want to reproduce hierarchy. I’ve learned so much working independently with students.” What his students may not know is how far his reach extends beyond the classroom and into the lives of people across the country. The author of several highly regarded books and articles on topics relating to the Black experience, Glaude has also been instrumental in widening the reach of scholarship on issues of race and politics through a 15-week course, “Covenant Curriculum: A Study of Black Democratic Action.” Glaude worked with fellow Princeton professor Cornel West to develop the online course for use by church groups, book clubs and civic societies around the country. “The curriculum demonstrates various ways African Americans have struggled for democratic ideals,” says Glaude. “It seeks to inform and empower our contemporary efforts in light of the past.” These efforts inside and out of the classroom serve some of Glaude’s most cherished goals: offering equal educational opportunities for all and awakening an awareness and appreciation of race in all students. According to Glaude, Princeton provides an excellent context for pursuing these goals. In addition to its remarkable financial aid program, which helps all students to attend regardless of financial circumstances, Princeton offers unique learning experiences through its innovative African American studies department. At Princeton, Glaude offers a perspective that speaks specifically to the experiences of Black students, and which infuses the curriculum across all disciplines with questions and conversations surrounding race and the Black experience. “[Students of color] can come into this institution,” Glaude says, “acquire the requisite tools to make their dreams possible and, in the process, leave an imprint on Princeton as Princeton tries to leave an imprint on them.” Related Content Faculty Profile William A. Massey Operations Research and Financial Engineering Learn More Full content of /academics/faculty-profiles/william-massey Faculty Profile Brooke Holmes Classics Learn More Full content of /academics/faculty-profiles/brooke-holmes Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746