Skip to main content Utility Navigation Visit Apply Ask COVID-19 Updates Main navigation Learning at Penn Living at Penn Admissions and Financial Aid Search Close Menu Close Search keywords Search Utility Navigation Visit Apply Ask COVID-19 Updates Secondary Navigation Desktop Student Stories Explore Penn Penn Admissions Blog For Parents & Families For Counselors Contact Admissions Main navigation Learning at Penn Major & Minors Specialized Degree Programs Inter-School Minors Submatriculation Undergraduate Schools College of Arts and Sciences Penn Engineering School of Nursing The Wharton School Our Faculty Penn Integrates Knowledge Civic Engagement Civic House Fox Leadership Program Netter Center for Community Partnerships Research and Learning Opportunities Undergraduate Research Scholars After Penn Living at Penn Art & Culture Athletics & Recreation Campus & Philadelphia Diverse Community Housing & Dining Penn Around the World Student Activities Student Support & Services Admissions and Financial Aid Visit Penn Tours and Information Sessions Workshops, Panels, & Events Student Connections Philadelphia Apply For Admission First-Year Admission Student Athletes International Applicants Undocumented Students Homeschool Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Admission International Applicants Student Athletes Costs & Financial Aid What Penn Looks For Comprehensive Review High School Preparation Testing Extracurricular Activities Letters of Recommendation Essays Interviews Supplementary Materials Admitted Student Profile Secondary Navigation Student Stories Explore Penn Penn Admissions Blog For Parents & Families For Counselors Contact Admissions Visit Penn We know that visiting campus is a huge part of the college search process. Look around. Explore items that pique your interest. Move at your own pace. We’re here to help guide you on your journey. *The Office of Undergraduate Admissions will resume in-person tours starting January 24, please check our schedule for visit options. Visit Visit We offer a variety of ways for prospective undergraduate students to engage with the Penn community. All programming is optional. Attendance will not be taken into consideration when reviewing applications. Tours and Information Sessions This is a great place to start. Here you’ll find details on information sessions, campus tours, and academic programs. Learn More Workshops, Panels, & Events Ready to take a closer look? Here you’ll find details on admissions workshops, events for international students, and special programs with members of the Penn community. Learn More Student Connections Get to know our students. Here you’ll find details on live student events, learn more about our tour guides, and read about the student experience at Penn. Learn More Philadelphia From arts and culture to food and recreation, Philly offers countless things to do and something for everyone. Here you’ll explore our “City of Brotherly Love.” Learn More Tours and Information Sessions This is a great place to start. Here you’ll find details on information sessions, campus tours, and academic programs. Learn More Workshops, Panels, & Events Ready to take a closer look? Here you’ll find details on admissions workshops, events for international students, and special programs with members of the Penn community. Learn More Student Connections Get to know our students. Here you’ll find details on live student events, learn more about our tour guides, and read about the student experience at Penn. Learn More Philadelphia From arts and culture to food and recreation, Philly offers countless things to do and something for everyone. Here you’ll explore our “City of Brotherly Love.” Learn More 1 College Hall, Room 1, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6376 Footer Menu Join the mailing list Contact Us Accessibility Privacy Policy NACAC Partnership Agreement