Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Undergraduate Admissions Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy First-Year ApplicantsIt all starts here Transfer ApplicantsEasy transition Check Application Status Costs & Aid Apply for Aid Financial Aid Eligibility Costs to Attend Financial Aid Calculator Value of a Cornell Education Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Facts Frequently Asked Questions Cornell A-Z Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections You are here Home » Contact » Counselor Connections print share Facebook Twitter Counselor Connections Welcome Message from Shawn Felton, the University’s Executive Director of Undergraduate Admissions Greetings from Cornell University Undergraduate Admissions! We appreciate the partnership and support of our counseling colleagues in the US and around the world in engaging and advising students interested in the living and learning communities, opportunities, and experiences at this extraordinary university. The uniqueness of Cornell is born of its unparalleled academic breadth and depth, and its uncommon and historic commitment to far-reaching diversity. We look forward to helping you help your students better understand what we do at Cornell, so that they find and consider those opportunities that match their interests and provide a rewarding experience. We hope to demystify the selective admissions process and provide greater transparency and understanding through helpful and timely information. See our undergraduate admissions online directory to connect with university admissions representatives responsible for your region, country, or state, and to ask questions about the undergraduate admissions application process, majors offered in each of the undergraduate colleges and schools, and the Cornell student experience. You can also find critical updates and information to share with students and families in our monthly counselor newsletters, linked on this webpage. While we wait for the return of in-person programming and campus visits, use our Virtual Visit website and its engaging, on demand content and programming, to learn more about us. Ways for Counselors to Stay Connected We want to stay connected! We value our partnership with you as we embark on the college selection and application path with you and your students. We hope these resources provide useful information for you and your students as they explore all that Cornell has to offer and determine if Cornell is the right fit for them. Please feel free to contact us with any questions you may have. We thank you for all that you do on behalf of your students. Event Date Time (ET) RSVP Cornell University Information Session for Counselors Thursday, May 19 1:00 p.m. RSVP Brown, UChicago, Columbia, Cornell and Rice Program for Counselors Wednesday, May 25 2:00 p.m. RSVP Brown, UChicago, Columbia, Cornell and Rice Virtual Program for Community-Based Organization Counselors Tuesday, June 14 5:00 p.m. RSVP Ways for Students to Stay Connected Join our mailing list Explore our virtual visit website Attend a live information session virtually Live-chat on weekdays from 1 pm to 4 pm ET found in the bottom right corner of this website Ask a Cornell Student Connect on Social Media Resources Counselor Newsletters Standardized Testing Requirements Application Deadlines Core Values at Cornell Diversity and Inclusion Cornell Class of 2023 Profile Access and Affordability Academics Research Life at Cornell Search our database of frequently asked questions Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections Contact Us From your first questions about Cornell to the completion of your application, the Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you find the information you need. Website Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. University Privacy Statement Undergraduate Admissions Office Cornell University 410 Thurston Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 admissions@cornell.edu Tel: 607.255.5241 Fax: 607.255.0659 © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment Admitted Students