Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Undergraduate Admissions Admissions right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) right arrow down arrow Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow In-Person Campus Tour right arrow down arrow Visitor Guidelines Campus Parking and Walking Directions Group Visit Self-Guided Visit Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First NEXT Innovation Scholarship Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media Admissions » Information for... » First-Generation College Students Info for... High School Students Application Information Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) SRAR FAQ Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Test-Optional FAQ Test Plan Choice Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students Application Requirements First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition Scholarships Global Scholarship Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Celebrating First-Generation College Students The University of Cincinnati (UC) is committed to recruiting a diverse and academically talented undergraduate student population. At UC, first-generation college students are defined as students whose parent(s)/guardian(s) did not earn a bachelor's degree within six years after high school graduation. First-generation students make up approximately 25% of our student body across all campuses, and we have outlined the resources below to support you in your application process through graduation. UC hosts a variety events and program to engage our prospective students. Below is a video from Bearcats Scholars: The Cincinnati Experience, an overnight visit opportunity for students of color and/or first-generation college students to meet other future Bearcats, experience our campus culture, and see what the Cincinnati area has to offer. Support Services UC offers a number of different support services and opportunities for first-generation students. Learn more about these programs below. 1MPACT House right arrow down arrow 1MPACT House is a residence hall on UC’s Uptown Campus, located in Building 12 of Stratford Heights. In order to be accepted to 1MPACT House, students must be either first-generation college student, underrepresented minority, and/or Pell-eligible. Living in the 1MPACT House supports your transition to college and introduces you to programs and resources that enhance your success in three areas: Academics, Personal, and Social. Please visit the 1MPACT House web page for more information. Gen-1 Program right arrow down arrow Housed in the Division of Student Affairs, Gen-1 is a groundbreaking UC program that is the nation's first living-learning community, established in 2008 to focus on first-generation, Pell-eligible college students. First-year Gen-1 students are required to live in 1MPACT House, which offers programming purposefully grounded in four pillars: Live, Learn, Give, and Earn, which fosters success and enriches their university experience. Lastly, Gen-1 students receive a scholarship that is renewable as long as they remain in good standing with the program. Please visit the Gen-1 Program web page for more information. Transitions (AACRC) right arrow down arrow The African-American Cultural and Resources Center (AACRC) offers the Transitions Program as a first-year experience opportunity. Transitions is designed to enhance the first-year experience for incoming students of color by providing leadership training, workshops, peer mentoring, social and academic activities to help enhance the success of students. Please visit the Transitions (AACRC) web page for more information. Darwin T. Turner (EPS) right arrow down arrow The Darwin T. Turner scholarship program through the Office of Ethnic Programs & Services is designed to promote academic excellence, foster diversity, and provide leadership and service opportunities to incoming underrepresented students. Darwin T. Turner scholars receive a full in-state tuition scholarship, in expectation of participation in developmental programs and activities. Please visit the Darwin T. Turner (EPS) web page for more information. #UCFirstGen Additional Important Resources Bellow you will find additional important resources available at UC's Uptown and regional campuses. UC Blue Ash Resources right arrow down arrow At the UC Blue Ash regional campus, nearly half of the students are first-generation college students. UC Blue Ash has many resources to support students. Visit UC Blue Ash Resources to learn more and see some first-gen student stories. UC Clermont Resources right arrow down arrow The UC Clermont campus provides students with the resources they need for college success. First-generation college students make up 52% of the Clermont campus population and there are many programs and resources available for support. Visit UC Clermont Resources to see resources available. Uptown Resources right arrow down arrow UC's Uptown campus is committed to assisting our first-generation college students, offering a wide range of resources to support and engage with students and their families. Academic Advising Academic Advising is provided to all students through our various academic colleges to help students navigate their academic journeys throughout the duration of their degree programs. Accessibility Resources We provide students with disabilities the necessary accommodations and accessibility to our community and classrooms, both on campus and in our online spaces. Counseling and Psychological Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) is available to students in times of need. UC CAPS offers a wide variety of mental health services and resources to support students. Financial Aid At UC, we understand that college is an investment in your future. Our Financial Aid office is here to ensure that our students are educated and have the resources to help make their education as affordable as possible. Student Employment Working on campus is an excellent way to earn money while attending college. There are numerous positions available to both work study and non-work study students through our various offices and locations on campus. Parent & Family Programs Keeping the families of our students connected with UC is an important piece to ensuring that students can navigate the UC experience successfully. Parent & Family Programs and its services provide families useful information and resources to help support their student in that journey. Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top