Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site Identity, Culture, Faith Identity, culture, faith, and politics inspire a constellation of vibrant communities that make up Yale’s complex and diverse student body. Some say Yale is a place of reinvention. Others say the undergraduate experience here is about becoming more of who you already are. Many students find the most personal routes on this journey through Yale’s cultural houses, faith communities, the Women’s Center, political groups, and sexual identity organizations. Check out Yale’s Diversity Viewbook for more. Cultural Houses Yale’s Afro-American Cultural Center, Asian American Cultural Center, La Casa Cultural, and Native American Cultural Center nourish a sense of cultural identity and educate people in the larger community. They are also home base for dozens of affiliated organizations from fraternities and sororities to dance companies, publications, and social action and political groups. Religious life Spiritual life at Yale is rich and varied with students who practice more than 30 religious traditions. You will find multiple services a day, centers for specific faiths, affiliated social and service clubs, publications, dozens of organizations within faiths, faith-conscious kitchens, as well as films, dances, politics, parties, art shows, and concerts sponsored by various faith groups. Learn More Belonging at Yale Explore Yale’s central web location for student, faculty, and staff resources that deepen a sense of belonging at Yale and strengthen diversity, equity, and inclusion in the Yale community. LGBTQ resources Yale’s Office of LGBTQ Resources offers outreach and education on issues of sexual orientation and gender identity for the whole University community. In addition, the LGBT Co-op hosts a number of member groups loosely divided into three branches: social, political/activist, and support/discussion. The groups also work together on large events and projects. Learn More The Yale Women's Center Founded in 1970, the Yale Women’s Center is an umbrella organization that deal with issues of gender and sexuality. The Center’s mission is to improve the lives of all women, especially at Yale and in New Haven. Learn More Political life Every political viewpoint can be found (and debated) at Yale. Many students join groups that focus on a single set of issues. Others join partisan groups, serve in Yale’s student government, or become involved in local New Haven politics. Learn More 568 Registered student organizations, groups and clubs (at last count) 83+ Organizations and publications affiliated with Yale’s Cultural Centers 10 Organizations that comprise the LGBT Student Co-Op 30+ Religions and spiritual traditions at Yale 1969 Founding year of Yale’s first Cultural Center In This Section Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Related Links Cultural Centers Yale Chaplain's Office Office of LGBTQ Resources Office of International Students & Scholars Yale Women's Center Yale College Arts Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved