Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Apply > Freshman Admission > Admissions FAQ Freshman Admissions FAQ We know the college admission process can be confusing, and we’re here to help! Following are answers to some of our most frequently asked questions about freshman admission. You can also contact the Office of Admissions for additional information or answers to specific questions. When do I need to turn in my admission application for Fall 2022? To meet the priority application deadline you need to submit your online application by November 1, 2021 and any remaining application materials need to be received by November 8, 2021. To meet the regular application deadline you need to submit your online application by December 1, 2021. All remaining application materials must be received by December 10, 2021. See Applying for Admission for information about everything you need to submit. How do I indicate on my application that I’m applying for the priority deadline? We will use the date that your application is complete to determine if you meet the priority deadline. The admissions application does not ask which deadline you wish to apply by and you do not need to indicate this at any point in the admissions application When will I receive my admission decision? If you complete your application by the priority deadline (November 1), you will receive an admission notification by February 1, 2022. This notification may be a final admission decision or a decision deferral to March 1, 2021. If you complete your application by the regular deadline (December 1), you will be notified of a decision no later than March 1, 2022. Some decisions are made and delivered earlier than the published decision dates. What happens after I apply? This past year, we received over 50,000 applications for admission. We conduct an individualized holistic review of each applicant, and this takes some time to complete. We recognize that students would like to receive a decision on their application as soon as possible, and we appreciate your patience. Please know that our timeline is designed to ensure careful consideration of each applicant. What applications does UT accept? You have two options when it comes to the application: the ApplyTexas application or the Coalition for College application. Do I need to submit both applications? No, only one application should be completed. Does UT have a preference about which application I submit? No, please complete the application that works best for you! Your choice will not impact your admission decision. How do I apply for UT scholarships? There is no separate scholarship application. To be considered for scholarships, you should apply for admission and complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). All freshman applicants who do so are considered for aid through the Texas Advance Commitment. Our Office of Financial Aid also administers some scholarships for applicants with unique qualifications. More information about consideration for these scholarships through our scholarship interest form will be available to applicants through MyStatus in mid-August. How do I find non-UT scholarships? Check out the resources on our scholarship page! You can also contact the Office of Admissions or the Texas OneStop for assistance. How should I pick my first-choice major? We encourage you to choose a first-choice major that is aligned with your interests and strengths, not just what you hope to do as a career. We will consider you for this major during our holistic review. Remember that your major won't necessarily determine your career later on, so we recommend reviewing the entire list of options on Wayfinder before you decide. If I don’t get admitted to my first-choice major, will you consider me for my second-choice? You may be considered for your second-choice major if you qualify for automatic admission and are not admitted to your first-choice major. Do I need to submit a letter of recommendation to be accepted? Letters of recommendation are optional and you will be considered for admission whether you submit letters of recommendation or not. Note that some freshman honors programs do require a letter of recommendation to complete the honors application. Learn more about freshman honors programs here. How do letters of recommendations work? Letters of recommendation can help us to learn things about you that aren’t available from other application items. And if you do submit them, they will be considered when we review your application. But they are optional, and you will be considered for admission whether you submit letters of recommendation or not. You may submit up to two letters of recommendation with your admissions application. They should come from someone who knows you well but is not a family member or relative. In your letters or recommendation, we’re looking for information that expands upon or isn’t available in other items you submit, such as your admissions application, resume, or essays—such things as: Your academic success and potential Your leadership contributions to your school, family or community Your persistence in response to challenging situations Your interaction with students and peers from different cultural backgrounds Your preparation for your selected first-choice major, both in school and out Do I need to submit an expanded resume? The expanded resume is optional and can be used to include additional information about your achievements, activities, leadership positions or student employment. If you feel that the resume section of your online application allowed you to provide a full picture of your involvement you do not need to submit an expanded resume. If you were not able to include all of your involvement within the resume section of your online application, or if you feel additional detail is needed, you should submit an expanded resume. Note that some freshman honors programs do require an expanded resume to complete the honors application. Learn more about freshman honors programs here. What format is required for my expanded resume? We do not have a preferred or recommended resume format or length and encourage you to choose a format that most easily allows you to share more about your involvement. The length or format of your expanded resume do not have any impact on the review of your application. What should I include on my expanded resume? Your expanded resume should include all of your involvement and achievements, not just those that did not fit within the resume section of your online application. You should include any work experience (paid or volunteer), extracurricular activities, accomplishments and awards. You may also choose to include family responsibilities. Do I need to submit SAT and/or ACT standardized tests? High school students who apply to The University of Texas at Austin for fall 2022 undergraduate admission will not be required to submit an ACT or SAT test score as part of their application. This change will allow the university to better serve potential students by ensuring that testing limitations related to COVID-19 do not affect a student’s ability to apply. For Fall 2023 freshman applicants and beyond, the university will continue to review the requirement to submit a standardized test score (either an ACT and/or SAT score) as part of the undergraduate admission application. Prospective applicants may find more information regarding SAT/ACT changes on our Standardized Testing Policy FAQ page. Can I request an application fee waiver? Students may request a fee waiver by indicating their eligibly on the online application. A separate fee waiver document or request is not required, however, students may be required to submit documentation in support of the request. If you have already submitted your admissions application and did not request a fee waiver, you can submit the Request for Fee Waiver form within MyStatus using the Document Upload System. How do I submit additional documents such as letters of recommendation or the expanded resume? Most admissions documents can be submitted using the Document Upload System within MyStatus. You will gain access to MyStatus 24-48 hours after you submit your ApplyTexas or Coalition for College application. More information about MyStatus can be found here. More details about how to submit each piece of the admissions application can be found on the Freshman Admission Checklist. How do I check the status of my application? MyStatus will always have the most up to date information for you. If you have additional questions about admission to The University of Texas at Austin, please contact the Office of Admissions at 512-475-7399 to speak with an admissions counselor. Freshman Admission Deadlines Summer/Fall: Priority U.S. applicants only November 1 To meet the priority deadline students should submit the online application by November 1 and all additional required or optional application items by November 8. The priority deadline offers students the opportunity to receive their admission decision up to one month earlier. Students who meet the priority deadline will receive an admission decision by February 1, which may include a deferred decision to March 1 (the regular application deadline notification date). Regular December 1 To meet the regular deadline students should submit the online application by December 1 and all additional required or optional application items by December 10. All applicants who meet the regular deadline will receive an admission decision by March 1. Spring: October 1 All completed applications received by October 1 will receive an admission decision by mid-January Items must arrive in our office by the applicable deadline. When a deadline occurs on a Saturday or Sunday, the admissions application will remain open until 11:59 p.m. (Central) the following Monday. Next: Back to Apply Go to Admission Honors Housing admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022