Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site Tours We look forward to welcoming you on a campus tour. Space is limited and advanced registration is required. Tour Schedule Campus Tours Admissions & Aid Session June (at SSS Hall, 1 Prospect St) Mon - Thu 9am, 11:30am, 2pm; Fri 9am & 11:30am Mon - Fri 10:30am & 1pm July (at SSS Hall, 1 Prospect St) Mon - Thu 9am, 11:30am, 2pm; Fri 9am & 11:30am Mon - Fri 10:30am & 1pm August (at SSS Hall, 1 Prospect St) Mon - Thu 9am, 11:30am, 2pm; Fri 9am & 11:30am Mon - Fri 10:30am & 1pm Tours will not be offered on: June 1, June 2, June 3, June 20, and July 4. Please be mindful of the following visitor policies: Advanced registration is required for Campus Tours. Each tour will be capped at 30 visitors or fewer. Separate registration is not required to join a thirty-minute session on admissions and financial aid led by an admissions officer, but attendance is limited to parties who have registered and checked in for a campus tour. Tours will showcase exterior campus spaces only and will depart rain or shine. All visitors must be up to date with their COVID-19 vaccination, including any booster dose(s) when eligible. A vaccine attestation is required of each visitor during registration. Per university guidelines, unvaccinated visitors, including individuals under age 5, are not currently permitted to join a campus tour or information session. All tour and information session participants must wear a mask at all times while indoors. To arrange for a group visit, please contact the Yale Visitor Center. Virtual Information Sessions The Yale Admissions Office regularly hosts online virtual events for prospective students. Learn more on the virtual events page. Virtual events include: Virtual Information Sessions - featuring an admissions officer and current student. Student Forums - featuring current students and live Q&A. STEM Student Forums - featuring current students majoring in science or engineering and live Q&A. Multicultural Open House - featuring Yale’s cultural and resource centers, through a week of panels, performances, and showcases. Regional Virtual Sessions and Current Student Conversations - highlighting the experiences of students from different US regions. Up Close Virtual Sessions - highlighting the performing arts, international and professional experiences, and students from rural areas. Inside Look STEM Virtual Sessions - showcasing science and engineering facilities and research opportunities. Virtual Events with Multiple Colleges - showcasing up to five colleges and universities in a single session. Advance registration is required for all virtual events. Virtual Sessions for Groups (Confirmed Reservations Required) If you would like to request a virtual session for members of a high school or non-profit group that works with prospective undergraduate students, please complete the form below at least 14 days before your proposed virtual session date. Virtual Group Request Form We will reply to each request as soon as possible with an approval or denial. If approved, we will contact you to confirm your group’s schedule and finalize the details of your virtual session. We cannot accommodate all group requests, and several dates are not available for group visits. See the registration form for more details. The Yale Visitor Center and Admissions Office are not currently able to offer in-person tours for groups. REGISTER FOR A CAMPUS TOUR Summer 2022 campus tours departing from SSS Hall are offered Monday-Friday. VIRTUAL TOUR Explore Yale’s campus online: view Residential Colleges, science labs, athletics facilities, libraries, classrooms, and more. VIRTUAL EVENTS Connect with admissions officers and current students from home through dozens of live virtual events. DOWNLOAD THE CAMPUS TOUR APP Miss the guided tour? Explore campus any time with a self-guided audio walking tour. In This Section Visit Campus Travel Arrangements Interviews Admissions Office Closings Tours and Information Sessions Admissions Events Near You Virtual Tour Join Mailing List Virtual Events Related Links Register for a Campus Visit Campus Map Academic Calendar The Yale Mead Visitor Center INFONewHaven Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved