Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Jack Heaphy Class of 2024 back Click to Close Bio Hi! My name is Jack and I am a Sophomore at Dartmouth. I currently plan to major in sociology modified with anthropology, all with a human-centered design minor. Outside of class, I enjoy performing and I'm currently involved in both a student dance group and acapella. I love hiking and running outdoors and have already explored a lot of Dartmouth's surrounding trails. I am also involved in Greek Life, the Student and Presidential Committee for Sexual Assault, and the Inter Fraternity Council. Academic Program Sociology, Anthropology, Human-Centered Design Favorite Thing Right Now New Irving Building! Hometown Charlottesville, Virginia Pronouns he/him/his About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Jack Heaphy back Click to Close Jack's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallOn Campus Favorite Class: SOCY 20: Sex, Death, and Migration This class was an overview on demographic trends across the world, and it's the course that got me interested in my current academic focus! I enjoyed the fact that this class was discussion based, so I was able to engage in conversations about different social factors and relationships that affect population changes in global societies. WinterBoston, MA Favorite Class: THEA 30: Acting 1 I never thought I'd enjoy doing theater online but this class fully exceeded all expectations I had in mind. I was able to learn new techniques and was forced to think about aspects of performance that I never had to worry about when on stage. The technological stage was definitely an interesting hurdle, but it strengthened my abilities as a performer overall. SpringOn Campus Favorite Class: ENVS 28: Global Environmental Health Beside it being my first in-person class at Dartmouth, I have enjoyed the case-based structure of this course. Professor Roebuck delivers the content in small units of environmental health problems, which are all applicable to specific cases and situations. This makes the material extremely interesting and thought-provoking, leading to an incredible class. SummerNew York, NY I spent my summer interning for a theater education company that offered technical skill sessions to teenagers, all taught by industry professionals. I learned a lot more about the ins and outs of the theater industry, due to the immersive setting of the position. Sophomore Year Click to Open FallOn Campus Favorite Class: EARS 14: Meteorology I originally took this class to fulfill my lab distributive requirement, but it ended up proving to be a super interesting course! I have always been fascinated by storms and weather, so learning the processes behind these phenomena and patterns was deeply interesting for me. While I am not planning on studying Earth sciences any further, this specific course was memorable for all the good reasons! WinterOn Campus Favorite Class: SOCY 16: Constructing Social Theory This class was a constant reminder of my love for sociology. Professor Kim was a genuine, kind, excellent professor and lecturer, and all of the material was deeply interesting. Some past classes that are reading-heavy have fallen short in finding invigorating readings that I was actively excited to explore, and I enjoyed every single article and discussion for this course. Exploring contemporary theorists' works, this class was a 10/10. Taking my Professor to Lunch! Here's a reflection on my experience taking my computer science professor out for a free meal paid for by the school! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/29/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts professor academics relationships Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Being Gay at Dartmouth I was worried how my college experience would be affected by my LGBTQ identity, so here's a brief reflection of how it's been at Dartmouth. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/4/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Social Life campus life lgbtq Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter What School Is Right For Me? It's decision time, and you're probably terrified. This is why I picked Dartmouth and how you should pick the school right for you! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/21/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Admissions choosing schools Why Dartmouth Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Where Have You Been? While I've been on a blogging hiatus, I've been busy elsewhere on campus. I thought I'd reflect on my new involvements in both the arts and STEM at Dartmouth. (Cover photo taken by Eli Burakian '00) Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 03/31/2022 at 5:55 PMAll Text Posts Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter My Rush Experience Part of my sophomore fall has involved rushing and getting involved with Greek Life. Now that it's finished, I thought I'd take some time to reflect on this experience. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 11/11/2021 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts rush Greek Life Belonging Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Taking STEM Classes As a Non-STEM Student This term, I'm taking 2 STEM classes, which has been an unexpected but enriching experience! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 10/20/2021 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts non-STEM STEM academic Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter It's Okay to Slow Down: Reflections on my Summer Break Spending the last summer off campus led to extremely fulfilling experiences and taught me a lot about myself and my life. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 09/26/2021 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts d-plan; summer; off term Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Some of my Favorite Spots in Hanover Here are a few of my personal favorite areas to spend time in when I'm on campus! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/16/2021 at 3:51 PMAll Text Posts Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Working in Theater Virtually Even in a pandemic, I've had opportunities to work in theater this term, and I'm extremely grateful for what it's taught me. (Photo by Russell Chai '24) Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/6/2021 at 11:30 AMAll Text Posts theater COVID-19 Dance; performing arts; student groups Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter My College Decision Process With decision day approaching, I decided to transport back to a year ago and share why I chose Dartmouth over other schools. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/26/2021 at 11:30 AMAll Text Posts college decision Admissions Why Dartmouth Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Pages 1 2 3 next last Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback