Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Admissions Search Menu Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour Search Admissions Admissions At Brown, students learn public health by doing public health. Admissions At Brown, students learn public health by doing public health. The Brown University School of Public Health brings people together from different backgrounds and lived experiences to confront public health crises through research, data, and a social justice approach. Our students have access to 13 world-renowned research centers and they work closely with faculty and researchers at the top of their fields, receiving a highly customized, highly personalized educational experience. Why Brown? A snapshot of what makes Brown’s graduate programs different. Visit Page Open details for Why Brown? By The Numbers Learn about our graduate programs’ class profiles. Visit Page Open details for By The Numbers Requirements Learn about our graduate application requirements and deadlines. Visit Page Open details for Requirements Tuition & Funding Cost of attendance, scholarship information, and funding opportunities. Visit Page Open details for Tuition &amp; Funding Frequently Asked Questions Answers to our most commonly asked admissions questions. Visit Page Open details for Frequently Asked Questions Connect with Us Schedule an advising session, arrange a campus tour, or connect with our dynamic student and alumni ambassadors. Visit Page Open details for Connect with Us Student Stories Play 1 of 3 Our students are guided by faculty mentors invested in their success. Play 2 of 3 Providence, Rhode Island is a great place to live, study, and practice public health. Play 3 of 3 Our local partnerships expand our policy reach and our students’ learning opportunities. I want to... Join the mailing list Schedule a tour of the School of Public Health Apply now View graduates' career outcomes Meet student and alumni ambassadors Learn about funding opportunities Upcoming Admissions Events Our Social Media For the latest news, updates and stories, connect with Brown SPH on our social media channels. Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Linkedin Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Admissions Open details for Admissions Bookmark this Page