This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Columbia University Irving Medical Center This website uses cookies as well as similar tools and technologies to understand visitors' experiences. By continuing to use this website, you consent to Columbia University's usage of cookies and similar technologies, in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. Close Skip to content School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Make a Gift Open Menu About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Application Management Thank you for your interest in the Columbia University School of Nursing. Below you will find a listing of our program options. As a new user, to begin an application, please CREATE AN ACCOUNT under First-time users. To add a new application to your profile, please LOG IN. Non-Degree Programs: Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing (OPEN) Certificate in Professional Achievement in Transgender/Gender Non-Binary Health Care Degree Programs: Masters Direct Entry for Non-Nurses (MDE) Masters in Nurse Anesthesia Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership (NYP Nurses Only) Post-Baccalaureate DNP for RN's Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Additionally, you may find the resources below useful: Admissions at a glance and deadlines Student Profiles Financial Aid for degree programs only Please note the following application update: All degree program enrolling students will have their references verified by the Office of Admission or a third-party vendor prior to entry. Good luck on your application and we look forward to getting to know more about you. Kind Regards, Office of Admissions Columbia Nursing Returning users:Log in to continue an application. First-time users:Create an account to start a new application. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY10032United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram(link is external and opens in a new window) Instagram(link is external and opens in a new window) Twitter YouTube LinkedIn