Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Diversity & Well-being You are here Home Student Life Diversity & Well-being About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Explore all layers of your identity, find community and feel supported throughout your entire student journey. At Temple, we celebrate each and every student. As a member of our community, your safety and prosperity are top priorities. We value your individuality and your identity, and we provide the clubs, support services and resources to help you feel secure, healthy and empowered. With more than 26,000 undergraduates across the globe, we are a community of unique voices and perspectives. Our mission is to create a social learning environment where you can speak your truth and be heard—where you and your classmates are met with respect and encouragement. Lloyd-Princeton Cangé ’20 Sculpture Major, Tyler School of Art and Architecture Lloyd-Princeton relaunched the Artists of Color Collective of Temple, a student group that provides resources to undergraduate creatives. “I knew I needed a space and a community at Tyler and at Temple, and I figured if I needed a space then other people did as well. That’s our mission—building a community for artists of color and strengthening ourselves through art.” Michelle Intoccia ’20 Senior Advertising Major, Klein College of Media and Communication Michelle has firsthand experience with Temple’s global community. She studied abroad at Temple University, Japan Campus, an eye-opening experience for her. Meeting people from all over the world at Temple Japan and being immersed in the Tokyo art scene prepped her for a career in art direction. “Temple is community. It’s culture. It’s creativity.” Yesh Khanna ’23 Global Studies Major, College of Liberal Arts For Yesh, home is on the other side of the world in India. Though, finding family at Temple came easy with the support of his classmates, International Student Affairs, and the Disability Resources and Services. “My favorite thing here is how supportive the environment is. My Orientation leader became one of my best friends.” Yiran Yao ’16 Film and Media Production Major, Klein College of Media and Communication After graduation, Yiran moved home to China, where she became a theater director at Shanghai Disney. “My Temple experience helped me grasp more in-depth knowledge of art and culture, which was a huge help in landing my first internship at Disneyland and my dream job.” Health and Individuality Explore all of the ways Temple emphasizes and ensures student safety, inclusion and well-being. /student-life/diversity-well-being/diversity-inclusivity Diversity & Inclusivity Temple is dedicated to building a diverse educational community founded on respect, open-mindedness and the appreciation of others. Diversity & Inclusivity /student-life/diversity-well-being/health-wellness Health & Wellness Our comprehensive network of counseling and health services help to maintain the emotional, mental and physical health of our students. Health & Wellness /student-life/diversity-well-being/integrity-ethics Integrity & Ethics Temple is committed to fostering a culture of integrity and ethical behavior throughout the university. Integrity & Ethics COVID-19 Response You can find answers to frequently asked questions regarding Temple’s response to the pandemic and our universitywide efforts to keep our students, faculty and staff safe and healthy by visiting our COVID-19 updates website. https://www.temple.edu/coronavirus COVID-19 Updates Read our public health guidelines and policies, and the latest information about how Temple is safeguarding our community. COVID-19 Updates Back to Student Life Go back to Student LifeMore in Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info