Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Undergraduate Admissions Admissions right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) right arrow down arrow Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow In-Person Campus Tour right arrow down arrow Visitor Guidelines Campus Parking and Walking Directions Group Visit Self-Guided Visit Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First NEXT Innovation Scholarship Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media Admissions » Information for... » Military & Veteran Students Info for... High School Students Application Information Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) SRAR FAQ Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Test-Optional FAQ Test Plan Choice Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students Application Requirements First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition Scholarships Global Scholarship Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Military & Veteran Students At the University of Cincinnati, we greatly value each and every service member - both past and present - for the sacrifices they have made for our country. We are committed to supporting military and veteran students as they navigate their educational journeys. UC welcomes you to continue your studies at Cincinnati. Here's how to get started. An important first step for military and veteran students wishing to enroll is to determine if they are a first-year or transfer applicant. The two types of students are defined below. First-Year Applicant A first-year applicant is a student who is entering college directly from high school and/or has never attended a community college or university since graduating from high school. First-Year Student Application Transfer Applicant A transfer applicant is a student who has earned a high school diploma or GED and has attended another college or university since earning their high school credentials and are now seeking admission to a UC degree program. Please note that all Air Force veterans are considered transfer students because some of their training is completed through the Community College of the Air Force. Transfer Student Application Regional Campuses Military and veteran students are also welcome to continue their studies at our regional campuses: UC Blue Ash College and UC Clermont College. Learn more about the veteran experience at both Blue Ash and Clermont. Please refer to each college's respective admissions websites for additional information, and click the button below to apply to a regional campus. Apply to a regional campus Services & Resources UC offers a number of different services and resources to help military and veteran students prior to enrollment as well as during their time on campus. Veterans Programs & Services Office The Office of Veterans Programs & Services was founded to ensure that all individuals associated with the military that choose the University of Cincinnati would have a seamless transition from the Armed Forces to college. It is important for military and veteran students to initially connect with this office to understand the logistics of getting approval to use their military benefits. Please refer to this web page to learn the steps to receiving veteran education benefits at UC. Get more information and connect with Veterans Programs & Services. Veterans Lounge Space where military-affiliated students can meet, study, and socialize. Free coffee and a Nintendo Switch are also available in the lounge for students. Uptown's Veterans Lounge is located on the fourth floor of Tangeman University Center (TUC). UC Blue Ash Veterans Lounge is located at Muntz Hall 347. UC Clermont Veterans Lounge is located in room 006 of the Edith Peters Jones building. Contact Us If you have questions about the admissions process for military and veteran students, please book an advising appointment with an admissions counselor or contact Kody Ruark (robert.ruark@uc.edu) or Andrew Coggins (andrew.coggins@uc.edu). Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top