Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Chidera Duru Class of 2025 back Click to Close Bio Hi guys! I'm Chidera and I'm a '25 from Lagos, Nigeria. I've lived in a big city for nearly half of my life, so I'm excited to explore the scenic outdoor spaces surrounding Dartmouth. I love trying new things, so I just signed up for Dartmouth's archery team! Other than that, I can't wait to get involved in The Dartmouth Alliance For Children Of Color, the Political Economy Project, and The Dartmouth Outing Club. Most of all, I'm looking forward to sharing my Dartmouth experience with you! Academic Program Economics, African and African American Studies Favorite Thing Right Now Cup noodles! Hometown Lagos, Nigeria Pronouns she/her/hers About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Chidera Duru back Click to Close Chidera's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallHanover Favorite Class: Introduction to Biological Anthropology Taking this class was a random and unexpected decision that I am so happy I made. This class was about the intersection between human and primate evolution and our social behaviors. It really opened my eyes to how unique and beautifully diverse different societies are, and how this uniqueness influences our biology in interesting ways. WinterHanover Favorite Class: Essential Mathematics for Economic Analysis Taught by Professor Doyle, this has been my favorite class at Dartmouth so far. It was a calculus integrated with economic applications of the concepts we learned. It was the first time this class was offered at Dartmouth, and Professor Doyle made sure we all had a thorough understanding of the material. The fact that we were also able to see the real-world applications of the calculus concepts also made the class uniquely interesting. Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. No. 1 Paris In The 19th Century (ARTH 7) Dartmouth requires that all freshmen complete a first year-writing requirement which includes one or two writing courses and a first-year seminar in one of Dartmouth’s academic departments. In my first-year seminar, I took a class in the Art History department called “Paris in the 19th Century. In this class, we discuss Impressionist artists and their paintings, as well as the political, social and economic situations that inspired their art. This class has been a great opportunity to apply the writing skills I learned in my previous writing classes to analyzing art and art history. I’m also really excited for our final project where we select an Impressionist art and a particular theme in their artwork to discuss in a paper and a class presentation. No. 2 Introduction to Statistical Methods (ECON 10) This term, I’m also taking an introductory statistics class. I needed to take a statistics class as a prerequisite for my internship this summer. Several Dartmouth departments each offer statistics classes, so I decided to take one in the economics department that would simultaneously fulfill a major prerequisite. Although this class has been a bit challenging, it has given me a unique and essential insight into the field of economic research. There has also been a lot of support in this class through the help of our professor and teaching assistants, who both offer office hours at least once a week, and a peer tutor from Dartmouth’s Peer Tutoring Program. My favorite thing about this class has been the group presentations we do, in which we are assigned a research paper that employs some of the statistical methods we learn in class to discuss and present during class periods. These presentations have been a great opportunity to understand the nuances of economics research in real-world situations. No. 3 Introductory Economics, The Price System (ECON 1) Lastly, I took an introductory economics class, which is a prerequisite for almost every economics class at Dartmouth. As an aspiring economics major, I felt it would be helpful to take this class in my freshman year to be able to explore the economics major further in my second year. In this class, we learn the concepts and ideas that form the basis of economic theory and analysis. I especially love this class because of how small it is, and how much we’re all able to interact with and learn from our professor. At the end of the term, we each get to put together a final project where we apply the concepts we have learned to any topic of our interest. Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/30/2022 at 9:00 AMAll List Posts Classes class Economics Art History statistics stats Finals Research Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Spring Weekend at Dartmouth April showers really do bring May flowers. Spring in Hanover is truly indescribable; in a matter of days, the trees on campus regrow their lush green leaves and flowers bloom on every corner. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/17/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Spring Economics Connecticut River river Band concert sorority toad boat Film Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Family Weekend at Dartmouth Last weekend was a very special weekend here at Dartmouth! Parents weekend! On this wonderful weekend I was able to meet all the wonderful parents and alumnus that came back to visit this wonderful place we call home. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/11/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts simon pearce family weekend vermont concert christian beck Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Interviewing A Dartmouth Professor As Dartmouth prepares to welcome the incoming Class of 2026 this fall, I was inspired to interview Professor Doyle and understand what makes Dartmouth such a unique and exciting community from a professor's perspective. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/4/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts class professor Why Dartmouth Economics Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Day In The Life Of A Dartmouth Student Last week, I hosted a member of Dartmouth's Class of 2026 as part of the Discover Dartmouth program. So, I decided to do my own virtual version of "Discover Dartmouth" through a blog post to show what a day in the life of a Dartmouth student is like! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/29/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts day in the life Hike green Collis Novack Food political economy project Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter How Dartmouth Supports International Students Dartmouth has a helpful, knowledgeable, and dedicated Office of Visa and Immigration Services (OVIS) to help Dartmouth's international community adjust to living and studying in the US. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/21/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts taxes sprintax international social security number job campus job Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Taking A Gap Year Before College Taking a gap year before college can be a transformative learning experience. If you're wondering what you could do during a gap year, I'd love to share my gap year experience with you! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/14/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts gap year volunteering defer Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Why I Chose Dartmouth Welcome '26s and congrats on your acceptance to Dartmouth! You might be wondering what to expect when you get to Dartmouth and why you should come here, and I hope this blog post provides some of these answers to you! No. 1 Dartmouth's Community Dartmouth has one of the most unique and special communities in several ways. Because of how small the college is, it’s really easy to get to know people and make new friends. Moreover, Dartmouth students are friendly in every social setting. The friends you’ll make won’t be limited to your dorms and extracurriculars. You’ll meet people through classes, during fun school events and in so many random circumstances. The entire Dartmouth community is also collaborative and supportive of each other. Everyone from your closest friends and acquaintances to your professors and TAs genuinely wants to see you succeed and will do everything within their power to help you. No. 2 Classes At Dartmouth I think taking classes at Dartmouth is a remarkable experience quite like no other. Not only are classes super interesting, but you’ll also be surrounded by fellow students who are genuinely excited to learn and contribute to intellectual conversations. You will also learn from professors who are passionate about what they teach and are widely recognized experts in their field. Dartmouth professors are always enthusiastic to get to know their students either through working with them on research projects or just fun, casual conversations. If classes get stressful, you will always have the support of amazing teaching assistants and peer tutors who are more than excited to help their fellow students. No. 3 Dartmouth's Location Dartmouth’s location offers an unrivalled college experience. Its rural location was something I was worried about before I got here, especially since I had never visited campus before I enrolled in the fall. But I’ve come to love and appreciate it because it has given me opportunities to explore and enjoy nature. Since I got to Dartmouth, I’ve learnt to ski, watched the sun rise from Gile Mountain, gone sledding in the snow and gone on spontaneous midday hikes with my friends. The small-town charm of Hanover has also made me feel deeply connected to the Dartmouth community. I hope this post answers some of your questions about Dartmouth and makes you anticipate enrolling at Dartmouth in the fall! Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/6/2022 at 9:00 AMAll List Posts Why Dartmouth Community Classes academics hikes Nature gile Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Winter Term Lessons As my second term at Dartmouth comes to an end, I can't help but reflect on the vital lessons that my experiences this term have taught me. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 03/13/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Study Abroad New York health Professors ghana accra Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Taking My Professor To Breakfast One of the ways Dartmouth fosters this close relationship between faculty and students is through the Take Your Professor To Lunch program. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 03/7/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts professor pine restaurant breakfast lunch Economics undergraduate deans Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Pages 1 2 3 next last Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback