Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Visit Us Visit Us Nicknamed the “Forty Acres” after the size of the university’s original 1883 footprint, The University of Texas at Austin’s main campus is a 431-acre urban oasis in the heart of the capital city of Texas. Campus is home to landmarks like the Tower at the heart of campus or the Perry-Castañeda Library with over 70 miles of book stacks. Discover the creativity of the Blanton Museum of Art and the exterior installation from Ellsworth Kelly, "Austin." Explore our opportunities to learn more about campus and what makes life great on the Forty Acres. We are excited to showcase a few ways that you can get a peek at Longhorn life. Registration for on-campus tour is now open for high school juniors and admitted high school seniors. Prospective students are encouraged to visit campus and take a tour. Live Virtual Sessions Sign up for a live virtual tour or an online information session about admissions or one of our academic programs. Look Around Virtual Tour Take a 360° look at some of our most beloved campus spots on this virtual tour. Admissions Welcome Center Learn more about visiting the Admissions Welcome Center. On-Campus Opportunities On-campus tour registration is now open for high school juniors and admitted high school seniors. Meet a Longhorn Jalyn, Texas ‘23 Computer Science Dallas, Texas How she’s changing the world I hope to change the world by not only creating new, innovative tech but also making it so accessible that whether the user is an eight-year-old or an 80-year-old, they can enjoy my new contributions. @bealonghorn Class of 2022 Impact Scholar Ashley Juarez is graduating with a degree in social work. She plans to... @bealonghorn Camila Valdez is another one of our amazing seniors in the first Impact Scholar cohort, graduating with an... @bealonghorn 2022 graduating Impact Scholar Gloria Akinnibosun will receive degrees in Marketing and African and African Diaspora Studies, and... @bealonghorn Another member of the first Impact Scholars cohort is TIP Scholar, Guillermo Lezama. Hailing from Fort Worth, Texas,... @bealonghorn Commencement is right around the corner and we're celebrating the first ever cohort of impact scholars reaching this... @bealonghorn A new way to explore @UTAustin just dropped! Stream our episode of The College Tour to learn more... @bealonghorn Ever wanted to learn more about UT Austin astronomy? A recent epsiode of the TX512 podcast features a... @bealonghorn Views of the tower never get old.🤘 @bealonghorn Hey #UT26, have you registered for New Student Orientation yet? Click the link in our bio! Now that... Quick Links Apply Now Contact Us Virtual Info Sessions Protect Texas Visit Guidelines admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022