Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Apply > Freshman Admission Applying for Admission Checklist Freshman Transfer Visiting Returning See also: Graduate Law Medical Internal Transfer › If you are a high school senior or a student who has completed high school and has not yet enrolled at another college or university after graduation, you should apply for freshman admission. Required Application Materials Deadline Extension: Summer/Fall 2022 The ApplyTexas or Coalition summer/fall application is due December 1. Students may submit all additional application materials until December 10 (11:59 p.m. Central). Fall 2023 Application The ApplyTexas or Common App application for fall 2023 is due December 1. Students may submit all additional application materials until December 10 (11:59 p.m. Central). Required application materials The application materials below are required for ALL freshman applicants. The online application Freshman applicants for fall 2023 can submit either the ApplyTexas application or Common App application. Use your application to report your complete academic record, including college credit earned as dual credit. More Information Open Dates Processing Time International Applicants Application Open Dates Both the ApplyTexas and the Coalition for College summer/fall applications open on August 1. The spring application opens no later than March 1. Processing After you submit your ApplyTexas or Coalition for College application, you’ll receive an email from us that includes your UT EID, allowing you to access MyStatus. Within MyStatus you will find a personalized application checklist, be able to track application items as they are received and upload items such as transcripts and letters of recommendation through the Document Upload System. International Applicants If you are not a U.S. citizen or permanent resident and will not graduate from a Texas high school, select the option to apply for freshman admission as an international applicant. Application fee Pay the non-refundable $75 application fee — $90 for international applicants — when you submit your ApplyTexas or Common app application. Fee waivers are available. More Information Fee Waivers International Applicants Fee Waivers Students may request a fee waiver by indicating their eligibility on the online application. A separate request form is not required, however, students may be required to submit documentation in support of a request. Request a fee waiver when you apply for admission or submit the Request for Fee Waiver form within MyStatus using the Document Upload System after you submit your application. International applicants who do not qualify for Texas residency are not eligible for a fee waiver. International Applicants If you are an international applicant and are not able to pay your fee online using a credit card, mail your payment in the form of a cashier’s check, bank money order or bank draft in U.S. dollars to: The University of Texas at Austin Graduate and International Admissions Center P.O. Box 7608 Austin, TX 78713-7608 Make checks payable to The University of Texas at Austin, and write your six-digit Application ID number, UT EID or UT Assigned Student ID number on your check or money order. Do not send cash or personal checks. Essay Along with your ApplyTexas or Common App application, submit at least one essay. More Information What's Required Essay Topic Essay Submission What's Required All freshman applicants must submit a required essay: Topic A in ApplyTexas, or the UT Austin Required Essay in the Coalition application. Please keep your essay between 500–700 words (typically two to three paragraphs). Essay Topic for Summer/Fall 2022 and Spring 2022 Applications Tell us your story. What unique opportunities or challenges have you experienced throughout your high school career that have shaped who you are today? Submitting Your Essays Generally, you should plan to submit your essay in conjunction with your admissions application. You may also submit your essay within MyStatus using the Document Upload System — or by mailing them to the Office of Admissions—although these submission methods are not preferred. Short Answers Answer the required short answer prompts in your ApplyTexas or Common App application. More Information What’s Required Summer/Fall 2022 Prompts Spring 2022 Prompts Answer Submission What’s Required All applicants must submit the required short answers to prompts within the admissions application. Answers are limited to no more than 40 lines, or about 250–300 words, typically the length of one paragraph. Summer/Fall 2022 Prompts Required Short Answers (250-300 words each): 1. Why are you interested in the major you indicated as your first-choice major? 2. Describe how your experiences, perspectives, talents, and/or your involvement in leadership activities (at your school, job, community, or within your family) will help you to make an impact both in and out of the classroom while enrolled at UT. 3. The core purpose of The University of Texas at Austin is, "To Transform Lives for the Benefit of Society." Please share how you believe your experience at UT-Austin will prepare you to “Change the World” after you graduate. 4. Please share background on events or special circumstances that you feel may have impacted your high school academic performance, including the possible effects of COVID-19. Spring 2022 Prompts All applicants for Spring 2022 must submit three required short answers and may submit one optional short answer responding to prompts in your admissions application. Required Short Answer 1: Why are you interested in the major you indicated as your first-choice major? Required Short Answer 2: Leadership can be demonstrated in many ways. Please share how you have demonstrated leadership in either your school, job, community, and/or within your family responsibilities. Required Short Answer 3: Please share how you believe your experiences, perspectives, and/or talents have shaped your ability to contribute to and enrich the learning environment at UT Austin, both in and out of the classroom. Optional Short Answer: Please share background on events or special circumstances that you feel may have impacted your high school academic performance, including the possible effects of COVID-19. Please limit your response to 250-300 words. Submitting Your Short Answers You should plan to submit your essays in conjunction with your ApplyTexas or Coalition for College application. You will be required to complete the short answer responses in order to complete and submit your admissions application. Your high school transcript(s) and class rank Work with your high school to send us your official transcript(s) documenting all coursework undertaken during your high school career and your class rank. If your high school does not rank students, include a statement from your school describing its policy, a copy of your school’s profile and a GPA or grade distribution report. International students should review the requirements on the “International Applicants” tab below. More Information What’s Required Transcript Submission Home-Schooled & GED Students International Applicants What’s Required Transcripts must include your class rank in addition to information about high school coursework. Rank should be indicated as your numerical position out of the total number of students in the class. For example, if you’re fifth in your class of 130, your transcript should report your rank as 5/130. Applicants should submit transcripts indicating rank for the latest completed semester prior to the application deadline. If your high school does not rank students, include a statement from your school describing its policy, a copy of your school’s profile and a GPA or grade distribution report. If you attend a Texas public school, your transcript should indicate the high school diploma program you will be graduating under, as defined in the state's Uniform Admission Policy. Submitting Your Transcript(s) High schools and school districts have their own protocols for submitting transcripts and UT accepts transcripts in a variety of ways to accommodate this. Contact your high school to determine which of the following methods should be used to submit your transcript: TRex MyStatus document upload system accessible after application submission MyCoalition Edocs/Naviance/Parchment By mail Note regarding MyStatus: Once you have submitted your application and gain access to MyStatus, you can use Document Upload to submit your high school transcript or send a request for your school to upload it on your behalf. Note regarding transcripts: Upon receipt, all transcripts require review and processing that during peak periods may take 7-10 days. Home-Schooled & GED Students Home-Schooled Applicants Applicants who were home-schooled must submit a transcript that: Lists all courses undertaken at each grade level, along with a brief description of the course content and information about the format of the course (in a classroom, via correspondence, online, etc.) Is signed by a school official, defined as the adult person who was primarily responsible for the education of the student Special GED Requirements Applicants who earned a GED must submit high school transcript(s) showing any coursework completed, along with a copy of the GED certificate. Rank Will Be Assigned In accordance with Texas Senate Bill 1543, applicants who present evidence of obtaining a non-traditional secondary education (for example, those who were home-schooled or earned a GED in lieu of a high school diploma) will be assigned a percentile rank comparable to the average class rank of students from traditional schools who have equivalent SAT or ACT test scores. International Applicants If you are an international applicant, you must submit documentation showing that you have completed an accredited secondary school series equivalent to that of a U.S. high school. Submit an official record or transcript (mark sheet) that shows all your secondary school work and grades (or marks) starting with ninth grade and continuing through at least the end of 11th grade. You should also include copies of your official final examinations taken at the end of the secondary school program, including external exams such as the General Certificate of Education (GCE) “O” and “A” level examinations, school leaving certificates and matriculation exams. If the documents you are submitting are written in a language other than English, you must also submit complete and official English translations together with the original-language records. Any college transcript(s) If you have earned any college credit (including dual credit) while in high school, request that the college or university send official transcripts to UT Austin. More Information What’s Required Transcript Submission What's Required You must report your entire academic record, including all college credit earned. Such coursework must be detailed on your admissions application, and you must submit official transcripts documenting the coursework. Submitting Your Transcript(s) Official transcripts must be sent directly to UT Austin by the college or university previously attended. We cannot accept transcripts submitted via email. Additional materials if applicable The following materials may be required. All required items must be received by the appropriate deadline. Major-specific items In addition to reviewing the prerequisites, submit any additional items required by the majors you’ve selected as your first and second choices. More Information What’s Required See MyStatus What’s Required The colleges that have major-specific requirements are listed below. Cockrell School of Engineering Meet the calculus readiness requirement, and demonstrate it by submitting an appropriate test score or transcript. College of Fine Arts Butler School of Music Submit the Butler School of Music application. Complete an audition or interview. Department of Art and Art History Respond to the following short answer prompt — In 500 words or less, please tell us about a meaningful way in which an artwork, or artist, has changed your life. How has this prompted your ambitions for a life in the arts? Studio Art or Art Education: Submit a portfolio. Department of Theatre and Dance All applicants wishing to be considered for admission to the Department of Theatre and Dance must submit a departmental application by the admissions deadline. Read below for details by major: Acting (BFA): Complete an audition. Dance (BFA): Complete an audition. Theatre and Dance (BA): Complete an audition or submit a portfolio, depending on your emphasis. Theatre Education (BFA): Take part in an interview. School of Design and Creative Technologies Design (BA/BFA): Submit a response to the creative design prompt. To learn more and submit your materials, please visit the Design Admissions Page. Arts and Entertainment Technologies (BS): no additional materials required. Moody College of Communication Department of Radio, Television, and Film (RTF) If you wish, you may submit either a video/short film or a written review/critique to support your application. This may be something you did for school or on your own. This is an opportunity to show us your potential as an RTF student. The duration of the video should be no more than 5 minutes OR the review/critique should be no more than 500 words. Either item will be submitted within MyStatus after you have submitted your application. School of Architecture Respond to the following short answer prompt — What does creativity mean to you? How might your view of creativity shape your approach to your college education in a creative field? Please limit your response to 250-300 words. Respond to the following prompt — Take and upload three photographs from a camera, smart phone or mobile device that capture how you see the world. Describe what is interesting to you or what you are trying to evoke with these images. Please limit your response to 50–75 words. School of Nursing If applying first-choice, submit responses to the following short answer prompts: Discuss the factors that have influenced your desire to pursue a career in Nursing. How have your academic and extracurricular activities prepared you to pursue a degree in Nursing? Steve Hicks School of Social Work Discuss the reasons you chose Social Work as your first-choice major and how a Social Work degree from UT will prepare you for the future. Other Colleges and Schools Colleges and schools not listed above do not have major-specific application requirements. See MyStatus Messages prompting you to submit additional items to meet major-specific requirements post to MyStatus following submission of your online application. Permanent resident card If applicable, provide a copy of your permanent resident card. More Information Applicability Applicability The permanent resident card requirement applies only to non-U.S. citizens who have permanent resident status in the United States. If the requirement applies to you, submit a copy of the front of your permanent resident card using the Document Upload System with MyStatus after you submit your admissions application. TOEFL/IELTS If applicable, submit either an official Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or International English Language Testing System (IELTS) More Information Applicability Submitting Scores Applicability International applicants must submit either an official Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or International English Language Testing System (IELTS) score report demonstrating an adequate knowledge of English. The TOEFL iBT is preferred over the IELTS. We cannot accept institutional TOEFL (ITP) scores or IELTS General Training scores. International applicants are exempt from this requirement if they: Are from a a qualifying country; or Graduate from a high school in the United States or in a country where English is the only official language after completing at least three years of study. Minimum scores acceptable for admission are: TOEFL: 79 (internet-based test) IELTS: An overall band of 6.5 on the Academic Examination Submitting Scores The university’s TOEFL code is 6882. There is no institutional code for the IELTS examination. To fulfill the requirement with scores from the IELTS, please use the IELTS electronic score delivery service to send your scores to the "University of Texas at Austin" account. Student Information Form If applicable, tell us about your high-school coursework via MyStatus. More Information Applicability About the Form Applicability Most applicants don't need to submit the Student Information Form. MyStatus will prompt those who are required to complete the form. About the Form The Student Information Form is used to streamline our processes, allowing us to confirm that you meet our high school coursework requirements and move your application into review. To complete the form, you’ll probably need a reference copy of your high-school transcript. Coursework Exemption Form If applicable, submit a form to claim an exemption to the state’s Uniform Admission Policy. More Information Applicability Form Submission Applicability Most applicants don’t need to submit a coursework exemption form. Those who do include Texas private-schooled students who do not satisfy test score requirements — either an SAT score of at least 1070 (combined critical reading and math) with a minimum of 500 on critical reading (if the test was taken prior to March 2016); a minimum SAT score of 480 on evidence-based reading and writing and 530 on math (if the test was taken in March 2016 or later); or an ACT score that meets ACT’s College Readiness Benchmarks. Students who attend a Department of Defense high school who are not exempt based on test scores should also submit a form. It will be used in determining qualification for automatic admission. Submitting Your Form If you believe you need to submit the coursework exemption form do so within MyStatus using the Document Upload System after you have submitted your application. Note that within Document Upload you can also request for someone to submit the form on your behalf. Residency affidavit If applicable, submit the residency affidavit. More Information Applicability Affidavit Submission Applicability Most applicants don’t need to submit the residency affidavit. If you aren’t a U.S. citizen or a permanent resident but graduated or will graduate from a Texas high school, you may qualify for residency for tuition purposes and should submit the affidavit. Students who may qualify will be prompted to download the Residency Affidavit within their admissions application or within MyStatus Submitting the Affidavit Email the completed, notarized residency affidavit to residency@austin.utexas.edu. Optional materials The optional items below are NOT required for admissions consideration, but will be considered as part of your application for admission if submitted by the appropriate deadline. SAT/ACT ACT or SAT test scores are not required for the Fall 2022 admissions application. Applicants will indicate on their online application if they would like their SAT or ACT scores to be considered as part of their application. If a student indicates they would like for their scores to be considered they must submit official test scores by the appropriate deadline. When provided, ACT and/or SAT scores will continue to serve as just one of the many factors considered in our review of a student’s application. There is an online resource for frequently asked questions regarding submitting standardized test scores. Students may also contact the Office of Admissions with additional questions. More Information Submitting Scores SAT Subject Tests Submitting Scores Students who indicated on their application that they would like their SAT or ACT scores considered in the holistic review process should submit at least one set of scores directly from the testing agency. (We do not require the SAT Essay or ACT Writing scores.) Scores included in transcripts and copies of score reports don’t meet this requirement. When you ask the testing agency to send your scores, use the codes the agencies have designated for UT Austin: SAT — 6882 ACT — 4240 Multiple Score Reports If multiple scores are submitted we will consider the strongest composite score submitted. SAT Subject Tests You are not required to submit SAT Subject Test scores as part of a complete application for admission. Some students may choose to submit these scores—for instance, home-schooled students may send them if they feel they reflect academic potential, or those hoping to earn course credit by examination may submit them for consideration after the application cycle is complete. Expanded Résumé You may choose to submit an expanded résumé offering additional information about all of your achievements, activities, leadership positions, and student employment. More Information What to Include Résumé Submission What to Include Your résumé should include all your achievements, not just those that didn’t fit on the ApplyTexas or Coalition for College application. That said, if you’re able to list everything on your admissions application, there’s no need to submit a separate résumé. If you submit a résumé, you should include: Details about what each activity involved rather than a general description The number of hours per week and weeks per year you spent on each activity Submitting Your Résumé Submit your resume within MyStatus using the Document Upload System after you have submitted your admissions application. Letter(s) of recommendation You may submit up to two optional letters of recommendation with your admission application. These letters may be from teachers, mentors, or people who know you well, either within or outside of your high school. The letter should be able to give additional context or information to support your admission that is not already provided in your application or other submitted documents (résumé, transcripts). More Information About Recommendations Recommendation Submission About Recommendations Letters of recommendation are helpful only when they provide meaningful information about you, offered by someone who can speak of you in an unbiased way. If you choose to submit a letter of recommendation, select someone who is capable of providing a well-written, sincere, personal account. Avoid recommendations from those who know you too well to be unbiased—family members, for instance. Submitting Your Recommendations Submit your recommendations within MyStatus using the Document Upload System after you have submitted your admissions application. Within Document Upload you can upload recommendations on your own or you can formally request for someone to submit one on your behalf electronically. Letters of recommendation are also accepted directly from your school via Naviance/Edocs. Track Your Status and Upload Materials Once you’ve submitted your online application track the completion of your application and submit additional documents in MyStatus. Be sure to regularly monitor MyStatus until your application is listed as complete, and complete any outstanding to-do items prior to application deadlines. Freshman Admission Deadlines Summer/Fall: Priority U.S. applicants only November 1 To meet the priority deadline students should submit the online application by November 1 and all additional required or optional application items by November 8. The priority deadline offers students the opportunity to receive their admission decision up to one month earlier. Students who meet the priority deadline will receive an admission decision by February 1, which may include a deferred decision to March 1 (the regular application deadline notification date). Regular December 1 To meet the regular deadline students should submit the online application by December 1 and all additional required or optional application items by December 10. All applicants who meet the regular deadline will receive an admission decision by March 1. Spring: October 1 All completed applications received by October 1 will receive an admission decision by mid-January Items must arrive in our office by the applicable deadline. When a deadline occurs on a Saturday or Sunday, the admissions application will remain open until 11:59 p.m. (Central) the following Monday. Quick Links Contact Us Admissions FAQ Testing FAQ Holistic Review Decisions Next: Back to Apply Go to Admission Honors Housing admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022