Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Dartmouth Bound: Summer Program Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually Dartmouth Bound was founded by Gary Love, Class of '76, in 1991 with a cohort of eight African-American students from Kenwood Academy in Chicago. Since its inception, the program has expanded in size and includes students from diverse backgrounds from all across the country. More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Dartmouth Bound Indigenous Fly-In Program Summer Series Dartmouth Bound • July 18-20, 2022 The Dartmouth Bound Program is designed to give participants an in-person experience of daily college life at Dartmouth. Participants will learn about Dartmouth's close-knit community and its resources, as well as college admissions and financial aid processes. Dartmouth Bound is open to rising seniors currently living and attending a high school in the U.S., from historically underrepresented backgrounds and communities. We are no longer accepting applications for the 2022 Dartmouth Bound Program. Dartmouth Bound is open to rising high school seniors currently living and attending a high school in the U.S., regardless of citizenship status. While the application is open to all students, we especially encourage students from underrepresented backgrounds and communities—including students of color, students who are the first in their families to attend college, and students from low-income families—to apply. Participants will attend workshops on the admissions and financial aid processes and interact with members of our faculty. While staying in Dartmouth residence halls, there will be ample time to enjoy meaningful conversations with current student mentors and other Bound participants. Program Highlights Admissions officers will explain our individualized review process and provide tips for completing college applications. Participants will have the chance to review sample applications to the College as part of a mock admissions committee exercise. Admissions officers will be available throughout the program to address individual questions about the college application process. Faculty will describe how their work contributes to the themes of academics, social engagement, and leadership via a class-setting environment. Additionally, professors will show the relevance of undergraduate classes and research to the great issues facing us in the world today. Participants will tour the campus led by currently enrolled students, which will provide an opportunity to gain orientation of the College and its physical and natural resources while hearing about student experiences. Need-based financial aid makes a Dartmouth education affordable. During the program, our financial aid officers will provide an overview of the financial aid application process and will address how a family's special circumstances are taken into consideration. Admissions and financial aid staff will help decipher the vocabulary of "need-based aid," "cost of attendance," "work-study" and other terms that will empower participants to make informed financial decisions when choosing a college. Throughout Dartmouth Bound Program, participants will connect with current students and in the process gain a personal understanding of the Dartmouth experience. Read about past participants' experiences with Dartmouth Bound Dartmouth Bound was, and I am not joking, the best few days of my life. After my experience I'd always jokingly tell my mother that if I didn't get accepted into Dartmouth I wouldn't attend college...it seems to have worked out! My favorite thing about Bound is that it was just another way for me to foster community at Dartmouth. The other participants I met were from all across the world and that was my first time getting to know more about other US states and even other countries. It is also awesome to now be a student and having maintained friendships with those who I met while at Bound. Not to mention, the professors I met were awesome and it was very clear that they too were very genuine. There was a genuine care for one another that I felt while participating in Dartmouth Bound, but there was also the genuine care for academics present. I loved that there was a perfect balance and from that point forward, I knew these were the types of people I wanted to spend four years of my life with. Here I am two almost three years years in and Dartmouth Bound made me feel a comfort I still feel today! —Amanda '22 It didn't matter that I didn't get to feel the Hanover breeze, but what did matter was that even through this nightmare of a pandemic, I was still able to feel the love and community that Dartmouth beautifully creates through my Zoom screen. Through Dartmouth Bound, I built a community full of thoughtful and talented individuals, who in the short time that I knew them, became my "quarantine best friends." This program allowed for me to get a true taste of the Dartmouth spirit, and gave me the amazing opportunity to attend compelling class sessions, tour Dartmouth virtually (WHICH WAS THE COOLEST THING EVER!!!), and regroup with our designated Dartmouth Bound Leaders for some honest and open Q&A sessions and debriefs. Honestly speaking, after Dartmouth Bound, I never felt more sure that Dartmouth had to be my next home. — Anell '25 Dartmouth Bound was truly an incredible experience for me in exploring colleges and eventually choosing to apply to Dartmouth. As a rising senior in the middle of the college application process, I was so glad I got the chance to dive into the Dartmouth experience and feel the welcoming community of Hanover. Even in a virtual environment, I was able to connect with my Dartmouth Bound Leaders and others students just like me. I especially loved the opportunity to participate in a mock class, led by a Dartmouth professor, and actually get to experience firsthand what classes are like at Dartmouth. I got to hear about all that Dartmouth had to offer from the perspective of real Dartmouth students and really see how important community is at Dartmouth and for me. I would be lying if I said that Dartmouth Bound did not prompt me to apply, and ultimately choose Dartmouth as my home for the next four years! — Emil '25 Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback