Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us Academics How to Apply Tuition & Aid Student Life Connect About Us Search Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The City of Miami The University of Miami is in the heart of a metropolitan city at the crossroads of the Americas. Getting Here The Coral Gables campus is the University’s main campus, conveniently located just seven miles from Miami International Airport and downtown. Parking &amp; Transportation If you're driving, please check out our parking guidelines. Public transportation options are also available if you are car-free! Visitor Guide Whether you are staying for the day or spending a weekend, check out our guide to ensure you make the most of your trip. Neighborhoods South Florida neighborhoods range from fast-paced to laid-back, from art-loving to nature-focused, from cosmopolitan to suburban. With the extraordinary blend of colors, cultures, and opportunities, there is always something new to experience in our fantastically diverse city. CORAL GABLES Home to the University of Miami main campus as well as 20 consulates and foreign government offices, and more than 140 multinational corporations. Travel Time: 5 min COCONUT GROVE Host to a diverse mix of art, music, and cultural events throughout the year and is a popular hangout spot. Travel Time: 10 min DOWNTOWN & BRICKELL Downtown and Brickell is home to multi-national company headquarters, government offices, and world-class cultural institutions; Forbes magazine called Brickell the “Wall Street of the South.” Travel Time: 15 min WYNWOOD The neighborhood at the heart of Miami’s arts community with its mix of galleries, street art, restaurants, and food trucks. Fun Fact: TripAdvisor named Wynwood one of the top hipster neighborhoods in the country! Travel Time: 20 min LITTLE HAVANA A melting pot of Latin American cultures. Flex your Spanish-language skills, play a round at Domino Park, or share a cafecito with friends. Travel Time: 20 min LITTLE HAITI This neighborhood pulses with the energy of its Caribbean residents, art, music, and cultural events. Travel Time: 25 min MIAMI BEACH Home to classical music, new-world cuisine, iconic art-deco architecture, and entertainment venues to suit any taste. Fun Fact: Miami Beach is home to the world's largest collection of art-deco architecture. Travel Time: 30 min 73% of Miami-Dade County residents speak two or more languages #1 for startup activity among the 40 largest metro areas in the United States, according to the Kauffman Foundation’s 2017 Index of Startup Activity. #3 best food city and #8 best city for coffee according to a WalletHub survey University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Undergraduate Admission 1306 Stanford Drive, Suite 1210 Coral Gables, FL 33146 TEL: 305-284-6000 TEL: 305-284-6000 FAX: 305-284-2507 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search myUM Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram tiktok Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback