Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / For Admits / Gap Year / Gap Year Information custom css-js - global Gap Year Information Tulane University is supportive of Gap Years in some cases. Enrollment deferrals or gap years may be approved in specific cases relating to medical issues, religious obligations, required military/national service, approved enrichment experiences and other extenuating circumstances. Tulane approves a limited number of students for a gap year by application and on a space-available basis and will review applications as they are received starting January 1st. Due to a limited number of spots, students who apply well before the deadline are more likely to be approved as available spots may be exhausted prior to mid-May. The deadline to request a gap year is May 15. Students considering a gap year should be aware of the following: The Office of Undergraduate Admission reviews gap year requests on an individual basis and approves a limited number each year. Students on a gap year cannot attend another university or participate in a program that awards college credit. If you obtain credit during the fall or spring semester or any trimester of your gap year from another university or a college credit granting program, and would like to transfer the credits you earn, you will need to reapply for admission to Tulane as a transfer student. Students on a gap year can have college courses taken one summer from an accredited four-year college or university considered for transfer credit. The summer courses may be taken the summer immediately following high school graduation or the summer prior to entering Tulane, but not both summers. While we cannot pre-screen credit earned at another institution for transfer approval, if you provide us with proof of enrollment in the course(s) by sending an unofficial transcript and course syllabi to crediteval@tulane.edu, we will be able to tell you if it is likely the credit will transfer. The deadline to request a gap year is May 15. Deferrals are considered for a one-year period from the term for which you are admitted only. If your gap year request is approved, you are committed to attending Tulane after your deferral period, and cannot apply for admission to any other school. While you do not have to reapply for admission to Tulane, you will have to submit an updated FAFSA and CSS Profile to be considered for federal and institutional need-based financial aid for the incoming year after your deferral period. If you were offered a merit scholarship when you were admitted to Tulane previously, you will be offered the same merit award provided that you remain in good academic and disciplinary standing with the university during your deferral period. To start the gap year application process, first submit your $1000 enrollment deposit by May 1st. Next, email Zac Ripich to request access to the “Request to Defer Enrollment to a Future Term” form. If your request is approved, an additional $700 gap year deposit will be required within two weeks of the approval. Students admitted to the Class of 2026 who have committed to enroll, but fail to do so, will forfeit their spot in the entering class and will need to reapply (with no guarantee of admission) if they wish to attend the university in a future term. CAST CAST Overview CAST FAQs 2022 CAST Fellows For Parents Spring Scholars Opportunities for Spring Scholars Spring Scholars FAQs Spring Scholars Ambassadors Gap Year Did You Know? Tulane was ranked the #40 Best National University by the U.S. News and World Report. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University