Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Our Campuses You are here Home About Our Campuses About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Our Owls find a home in Philadelphia and beyond. At Temple, we have an academic community that spans the globe. Our established, diverse campuses offer undergraduate students more than an education—they offer new ways to explore and participate in the world. And, no matter where you study, you’ll be an integral part of the Temple community. Whether you find home at our Main Campus in Philadelphia, our regional campuses, or abroad in Rome or Japan, our campuses open the door to a world of unique experiences. You’ll graduate with the skills and knowledge to set yourself apart and make a difference in the world. Explore our campuses and see where our Owls call home, or discover more about Temple’s undergraduate programs by campus. Contents Main CampusAmbler CampusTemple RomeTemple JapanOther Campuses Main Campus Located in North Philadelphia, Temple’s Main Campus offers a contemporary, dynamic education in a historic city we’re proud to call home. When you study at Main Campus, you’re studying in the center of it all. Our Main Campus offers students a wide variety of undergraduate academic programs, schools and colleges, and student housing; state-of-the-art facilities for students to meet, create, innovate and study; 18 Division I sports teams and more than 330 student organizations; access to professional internships and experiences in Philadelphia; close proximity to the center of the city’s thriving food and restaurant scene, shopping districts, museums, galleries and cultural venues; and the excitement of a big city with the close-knit feel of a traditional campus setting. View a map of our Main Campus. Photo Gallery View slideshow as list Close 1/8 An aerial shot of the Bell Tower. 2/8 Students walking across campus on a sunny day. 3/8 An aerial shot of O’Connor Plaza. 4/8 Students studying while sitting in a grass courtyard on campus. 5/8 Students walking by the Tuttleman Learning Center. 6/8 A shot of the outside of Charles Library. 7/8 An image of the Temple Sports Complex. 8/8 Students and cars crossing Broad Street near Main Campus. An aerial shot of the Bell Tower. Students walking across campus on a sunny day. An aerial shot of O’Connor Plaza. Students studying while sitting in a grass courtyard on campus. Students walking by the Tuttleman Learning Center. A shot of the outside of Charles Library. An image of the Temple Sports Complex. Students and cars crossing Broad Street near Main Campus. Ambler Campus Located about 30 minutes outside of Philadelphia, Temple’s Ambler Campus offers the benefits of a small, beautiful suburban campus with the resources of a large, global research university. Several of Temple’s more than 150 undergraduate majors can be started at Ambler Campus, and some degrees—including degree programs from the Fox School of Business, Tyler School of Art and Architecture and College of Liberal Arts—can be completed entirely. Students who attend our Ambler Campus will find the convenience of a suburban campus with the academic and extracurricular benefits of a world-class university; environmentally focused courses and academic support centers; a diverse range of learning gardens available at the Ambler Arboretum; and the Infant and Child Laboratory, Small Business Development Center, an aquaponics lab, and other dedicated learning and research resources. Learn more about our Ambler Campus and view the campus map. You can also take our interactive tour to see the Ambler Campus and to learn even more about the facilities and resources it offers. Photo Gallery View slideshow as list Close 1/6 A shot of the Recreation Services building. 2/6 An image of the city of Ambler. 3/6 Student teacher working with an elementary student. 4/6 A shot of Temple Ambler Campus. 5/6 Students participating in outdoor learning. 6/6 A student walking with Ambler Campus security. A shot of the Recreation Services building. An image of the city of Ambler. Student teacher working with an elementary student. A shot of Temple Ambler Campus. Students participating in outdoor learning. A student walking with Ambler Campus security. Return to top Temple Rome Established more than 50 years ago, Temple Rome is the longest-standing American study abroad program in Italy. Students from various programs have the chance to study abroad for an academic year, semester or summer while experiencing everything that central Rome has to offer. And, our Temple Rome Entry Year program allows students to complete their first academic year in Rome before coming to Main Campus to finish their degree. Learn more about Temple Rome and view the map of campus, or see firsthand what Temple Rome offers students through our interactive campus tour. Photo Gallery View slideshow as list Close 1/8 A student walking towards the entrance of a building on the Temple Rome campus. 2/8 A student studying in her Temple Rome dorm. 3/8 Students leaving a building on Temple Rome campus. 4/8 Students studying in a library. 5/8 Temple Rome students walking to their cooking class. 6/8 Art students creating sketches on museum steps. 7/8 A shot of Temple Rome campus. 8/8 A shot of the Vatican. A student walking towards the entrance of a building on the Temple Rome campus. A student studying in her Temple Rome dorm. Students leaving a building on Temple Rome campus. Students studying in a library. Temple Rome students walking to their cooking class. Art students creating sketches on museum steps. A shot of Temple Rome campus. A shot of the Vatican. Temple Japan Located in downtown Tokyo, near the popular neighborhoods of Harajuku and Shibuya, Temple Japan provides students with the opportunity to fully immerse in Japanese culture while going to college. Students at Temple Japan have the option to study in Tokyo for a semester or academic year, or they can choose to study for all four years. Temple Japan is the oldest and largest foreign university in Japan—and it’s the only foreign full university offering four-year undergraduate degrees, master’s degrees and PhDs entirely in English. Learn more about Temple Japan and view a map of campus. You can also explore Temple Japan and hear more about life as a student abroad through our interactive campus tour. Photo Gallery View slideshow as list Close 1/8 A student entering a building on Temple Japan campus at night. 2/8 Inside one of the academic buildings on Temple Japan campus. 3/8 Inside one of Temple Japan campus libraries. 4/8 Performing arts during Temple Japan’s Community Day. 5/8 A shot of a student walking through Tokyo. 6/8 A student inside an academic building on campus. 7/8 Temple ‘T’ artwork displayed on Temple Japan campus. 8/8 Art students sketching on canvases in class. A student entering a building on Temple Japan campus at night. Inside one of the academic buildings on Temple Japan campus. Inside one of Temple Japan campus libraries. Performing arts during Temple Japan’s Community Day. A shot of a student walking through Tokyo. A student inside an academic building on campus. Temple ‘T’ artwork displayed on Temple Japan campus. Art students sketching on canvases in class. /academics/international-campuses-and-study-abroad International Campuses Learn more about our international campuses and how to get involved in one of our study abroad programs. International Campuses Return to top Other Campuses Temple’s other campuses provide unique learning experiences for undergraduate students and are home to many graduate and professional schools and programs. While most undergraduate students don’t take classes on these campuses, they are still an integral part of the Temple community. Center City Campus Located in downtown Philadelphia, just a short subway ride away from Main Campus, Temple University Center City (TUCC) offers an alternative location to take certain courses in conjunction with coursework at Main and Ambler campuses. For example, undergraduate students can study at Main Campus and choose to take one course in Center City. TUCC allows students to complete coursework in a format that meets their professional and personal needs. Benefits of TUCC include night and weekend classes; courses and programs for adult and continuing education students; convenient access to SEPTA, Philadelphia’s public transportation; and opportunities to explore all that the city of Philadelphia has to offer. Explore our Center City campus and view the campus map. Harrisburg Campus Temple Harrisburg is located across the street from the Pennsylvania State Capitol. Here, we offer our Pennsylvania Capital Semester for undergraduate students interested in politics and government; certificate programs; and professional development opportunities for working adults. Learn more about our Harrisburg Campus and view a map of campus. Health Sciences Center Located in North Philadelphia, Temple’s Health Sciences Center is home to our medical-related professional schools and colleges. Students in our Bachelor of Science in Nursing program take classes at this campus, and other students can participate in internship and research opportunities here. Explore our Health Sciences Campus and facilities or view a map of campus. Podiatric Medicine Campus This campus is located in downtown Philadelphia and is dedicated to professional students studying at Temple’s School of Podiatric Medicine. Learn more about the School of Podiatric Medicine. Return to top View Programs by Campus Back to Main About Go back to AboutMore in About Meet Our Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info