Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Preparing for Brown Frequently asked questions about preparing for Brown Breadcrumb Home Frequently Asked Questions What kinds of courses should I take to best prepare for Brown? While there are no specific course requirements for admission to Brown, most successful applicants demonstrate preparation for university-level studies through a curriculum that is rigorous across academic disciplines throughout secondary school. Students at Brown tend to be exceptionally eager to learn and willing to accept academic challenges. The Open Curriculum allows students to explore broadly across many departments in addition to delving deeply into their areas of focus over four years, and we hope applicants will pursue a similarly broad base of knowledge prior to their arrival on our campus. The Board of Admission understands that individual academic opportunities may vary by school and by year, and that curricular expectations will also vary around the world. With that in mind, secondary school transcripts should show that students have taken advantage of the learning opportunities available to them. Brown expects that students will take a minimum of four academically rigorous courses, preferably five, across a range of core subject areas each year throughout secondary school. English language and literature, math, the sciences, history, and a second language are considered to be the academic subjects best suited to help students prepare for the intellectual opportunities and interdisciplinary learning environment at Brown. More specific course recommendations are provided below: English - 4 years, particularly focused on literature and academic writing Math - 4 years, continuing through calculus when possible, particularly for students interested in STEM Science - 3-4 years, including 2 years of lab science and particularly biology, physics, and chemistry when possible History and Social Studies - 3-4 years, including courses such as history, government, economics and politics more Foreign Language - 3-4 years, preferably continuing with the same language when possible Brown also encourages the study of music, art, and other electives in addition to the coursework recommended above. How important are my senior year courses and grades in the admission process? Your senior year is one quarter of your high school career and often includes some of the most substantial college preparatory coursework. Therefore, your senior year curriculum and performance are important indicators of your potential as a Brown student. Applicants who take a lighter course load or who show signs of underperforming academically are often passed over in favor of those who continue to excel during their senior year. We review all the grades for both Early Decision and Regular Decision admitted students to make sure they are continuing at the same level as their performance in previous years of high school. Is it better for me to take an Advanced Placement course and get a B, or should I take the Honors course and get the A? We would always prefer to see that a student has opted for the more rigorous approach to their high school education. In many high schools this means pursuing the AP or IB version of a course rather than a potentially less rigorous Honors or College Prep option. Will I get credit for the Advanced Placement courses I took in high school? At Brown, a number of academic departments recognize Advanced Placement (AP) examinations either for placement into an advanced course, and/or satisfaction of a concentration requirement, and/or for credit toward advanced standing. The particular scores required are determined by individual academic departments. The College is a good source for additional information about Brown’s AP placement policies. Does Brown award credits toward graduation based on Advanced Placement exams or for courses completed at another college? Any work you have done beyond your high school curriculum is valued as we consider your candidacy, but Brown does not grant course credit based on exam scores or college credits earned before enrolling as an undergraduate. However, strong AP exam results or advanced coursework may allow students to forego certain course prerequisites and progress more quickly to upper level Brown offerings. Courses counting towards a student's high school diploma will not also count towards their college degree. Does Brown favor Advanced Placement courses over International Baccalaureate courses or vice versa? We do not have a preference for one rigorous curricular model over another, and are content to see that our applicants have taken whatever challenging courses are available to them. Will I get credit for the IB/A-level exams that I took in high school? Students matriculating at Brown may have completed the International Baccalaureate (IB) curriculum, A-level exams and many other international diploma or certificate programs. The College maintains Brown’s related placement and transfer credit policies and procedures and informs incoming students during the summer how they can request placement credits (which are not the same as course credits or concentration credits) to place into higher level courses. After initially receiving placement credit, if a student later needs actual course credit instead of placement credit in order to graduate, the student may consult with their academic dean for pre-Brown transfer credit. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Preparing for Brown Open details for Preparing for Brown Bookmark this Page