Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Meet Our Student Ambassadors Get to know Brown through the eyes of our best representatives - current students! Meet Our Student Ambassadors Get to know Brown through the eyes of our best representatives - current students! Check out the profiles below to learn more about the Tour Guides and Student Admission Representatives currently working with the Office of College Admission. Our students come from across the country and around the world, and represent an array of backgrounds, academic concentrations and extracurricular interests. If any of the experiences below resonate with you, or you have other questions about life at Brown, feel free to email askastudent@brown.edu. Many of the students featured below engage with prospective students through this email account. Whether by email, an in-person tour or a virtual visit program, our current students are excited to share their Brown expertise with you! Student Ambassadors Mikey Abela I'm Mikey Abela, a senior from Easton, Massachusetts studying Computer Science. Outside of classes, I'm the coordinator for the New Media department of the Ivy Film Festival, where I create and curate works of AR/VR/mixed media. I've also worked as a video editor for Brown Motion Pictures and have acted, stage managed, and produced student theater on campus. Maguire Anuszewski My name is Maguire and I’m from Winthrop, Maine. I am a junior studying public policy with a focus on health care on a path to become a physician. Outside of the classroom, I’m a Meiklejohn peer advisor, orientation leader, Whole Patient Chair of the PLME Senate, captain of the Brown Ski team, and marketing director for both Aerial Acrobatics and Brown No Labels--a nonpartisan political organization. I’ve also been able to act with Brown Motion Pictures which is a student film group on campus. I'd love to chat with you about any questions you have! Grace Austin Hi! My name is Grace and I am a sophomore from Cambridge, MA. I took last year off during the pandemic but I am now back and studying Environmental Studies and Urban Studies with an interest in pursuing sustainable urban planning. At Brown, I am a teaching assistant for a climate policy course and serve as a research assistant for the Climate Development Lab. I also a m part of a group called SAKI (Students Against Koch Influence) at Brown. I'd love to answer any questions and chat, so feel free to reach out! Alice Bai Hi! I'm Alice Bai, a junior from Atlanta, GA studying Health & Human Biology and Contemplative Studies. On and around campus, I'm involved with health advocacy volunteer work, creative nonfiction (check out post- magazine!), and clinical research. I'm more than happy to chat about all things pre-med, advising, figuring out your interests, or anything else you can think of! Joe Belfield My name is Joe Belfield, and I'm a sophomore from many places: I was born in the Midlands of the UK, but I have lived in both Savannah, GA and Denver, CO within the last ten years. Outside of the classroom, I work for The Brown Daily Herald, Brown's primary news source, and I am a massive foodie; ask me anything about the Providence food scene! I would be so excited to talk about anything "Brown" with you: from academics, to campus life, to dining, to athletics, etc. Noah Bingham My name is Noah Bingham and I am a sophomore originally from the Hudson Valley in New York, but recently I've spent a lot of time in Western MA and Eastern PA. I am studying Biochemistry and Molecular Biology with the hope of attending medical school after graduation while also pursuing my interest in space exploration. On campus I am involved with Brown Space Engineering, and Brown's club ultimate Frisbee program, and love to explore the outdoors. If you have any questions about the Open Curriculum, being a Pre-med student, Frisbee, space, or anything else I would be happy to answer any and all of them! Adam Brandt My name is Adam Brandt and I'm a sophomore from London England. My concentration at Brown is in Political Science, but I am also considering a second in Linguistics. I am involved with undergraduate research and the Brown Votes advocacy organization outside of the classroom, and I am happy to answer any questions at all that you might have, especially regarding the international experience here at Brown, the Open Curriculum, the social scene here at Brown, and why I chose to come here. Claire Brown Hi! My name is Claire Brown (no relation), and I'm a senior originally from Des Moines, Iowa double-concentrating in Biology and Political Science. Aside from working as one of the Coordinators for the Tour Guide Program, I spend a lot of my free time with the Bio department. Courtney Brown Hi! My name is Courtney Brown and I'm a senior from Florence, SC studying Medical Anthropology. My concentration focuses on gender and health inequity, and my research interests include community-based maternal health initiatives and policy. On campus, I've been involved with a variety of research projects in biology, public health, and anthropology, and am a Bonner Community Fellow through the Swearer Center where I work as the Professional Development Coordinator at a local nonprofit. This is also my third year as a Residential Peer Counselor which I enjoy because I can serve as a mentor for large groups of first-year students. In my free time, I love visiting coffee shops around Providence and dancing as a member of the Brown-RISD Poler Bears. Will Buerger Hi everyone! My name is Will, and I'm a senior from Pittsburgh studying Computer Science. In my free time, I'm involved with student theatre on campus and as a Head Teaching Assistant in the Computer Science department. I think the best part about Brown is meeting incredible people (and I'm sad I only have 2 more semesters to do so), so please come say hi and chat with me! Welcome to Brown! Imani Camara My name is Imani Camara and I am a sophmore from Manhattan, New York studying Psychology. On campus, I'm involved with groups like Camp Kesem, Paper Airplanes (BRYTE), Project LETS as a Peer Mental Health Counselor, Knitting and Crocheting, Black Student Union, and many more! If you would like to hear more about plant-based living in Providence, social justice and mental health advocacy on campus, why I chose Brown, identity-groups, U-FLi or any question you can think of, I would love to hear from you! Akshit Chhabra Hi! I’m Akshit and I’m a junior from India concentrating in biomedical engineering while also being pre-med. Outside of class, I work with BRYTE, which is Brown’s organization to help and support refugees in the Providence area. I also do neuroengineering research with the Nurmikko Lab. Apart from that, I’m a Meiklejohn Peer Advisor and a Brown Design Workshop mentor for engineering. Looking foward to seeing you! Lauren Choi Hi y’all! My name is Lauren, and I’m a junior from Birmingham, Alabama studying Computer Science. At Brown, I coordinate undergrad computer science research, organize hackathons with Hack@Brown, and help plan Better World By Design’s annual Brown-RISD conference. My favorite part of Brown is getting to meet amazing people (especially prospective students), and I’d be more than happy to answer any questions — welcome to College Hill! Ben Connor Hi! My name is Ben Connor, and I'm senior concentrating in Comparative Literature and French and Francophone Studies. Outside of the classroom, I'm involved with student theatre, humor writing, and TAing. If you have questions about theatre, writing, learning languages at Brown, or Blue Room muffins, I'd love to chat! Christina Crockett Hi all! My name is Christina and I am a junior from New York City concentrating in Behavioral Decision Sciences with a focus on Education. Outside of the classroom, I am really involved in Brown’s Black Student Union, Brown’s Elementary After-school Mentorship Program and I’m on Brown’s one and only step team Divine Rhythm. For fun, I love playing sports, going on adventures, and listening to music with my friends. If you have any questions, I would love to talk about my experiences at Brown with you all! Beatrice Duchastel de Montrouge Hi! I'm Béatrice Duchastel de Montrouge and I am a current junior at Brown double concentrating in American Studies and the History of Art and Architecture. At Brown, I love taking the field at halftime as part of the Brown University Band! I also work as a curatorial assistant, doing research in the Hay Library, cataloguing our collections, and planning exhibitions. Outside of Brown, I love exploring all that Providence has to offer—from coffee shops, to local boutiques, and murals. Maxwell Ferguson My name is Max Ferguson and I am a sophomore from Jersey Shore, Pennsylvania. I am planning on concentrating in Geology-Biology, and am involved with the Brown E-Sports Club and Climbing Club here on campus. I also enjoy playing spikeball on the main green and basketball at the Gano Street courts. If any of this sounds interesting to you, or you have any questions, feel free to chat with me! Nina Fletcher My name is Nina and I'm a senior from Portland, OR, who transferred to Brown after my freshman year. I am double concentrating in Modern Culture and Media and an independent concentration (IC) in Creative Ecology. On campus, I work on student film productions, make a lot of art, edit for the College Hill Independent, and go on hunts for the best hiking trails in the Rhode Island area. If you have any questions about independent concentrations, the arts at Brown, or truly anything else, say hi! Elyse Foreman My name is Elyse Forman, and I am a sophomore from Los Angeles, CA. Outside of class, I am a member of the PLME program and Kappa Delta sorority, I play intramural sports, I am a co-founder of the Brown Journal of Medical Humanities, and I am on the Brown RISD Hillel executive board. I also have lots of experience with volunteering in Providence, so I would love to talk about that! Please ask me about clubs and extracurriculars, the open curriculum, Jewish life on campus, the best restaurants in Providence, or any other questions you have! Hayley Gasbarro Hello! My name is Hayley Gasbarro and I am a sophomore double concentrating in Cognitive Science and Modern Culture and Media. The extracurriculars that I am involved with on campus include the Club Field Hockey Team, Brown Motion Pictures, Musical Forum, Brown's Applied Music Program, and I am a tutor with Partnership for Adult Learning. I am from Barrington, Rhode Island and have a lot of pride for this little state! I would be more than happy to chat about Providence and its surrounding areas as well as answer any questions about Brown's community and the Open Curriculum. Michelle Gibble My name is Michelle Gibble and I’m a sophomore from Lancaster, Pennsylvania studying Neuroscience and Gender and Sexuality Studies. At Brown I’m involved Planned Parenthood Advocacy, the Cooking Club, and I also work in the art department. I’m a big fan of the Open Curriculum and have taken classes in many departments so I would love to share its advantages with you, along with all the other amazing things Brown has to offer! Armeen Golshan My name is Armeen Golshan and I am a junior at Brown double-concentrating in Economics and International and Public Affairs from Newton, MA. At Brown, I'm a Director at the Entrepreneurship Program, the Co-President of a cultural group, and serve on the Watson Institute for International and Public Affair's Student Advisory Council. Would love to chat about anything related to classes, extracurriculars, and professional opportunities! I'm an open book! Jonathan Green Hi! My name is Jonathan and I'm a first-year from Brooklyn, New York! After taking a gap year to work on campaigns, I'm now studying History (and maybe English). I spend most of my free time involved in Brown's incredible artistic community—I've worked on films with Brown Motion Pictures and directed theatre with Shakespeare on the Green. I also write for the Brown Political Review and love to ride my bike around Providence! Lu Guerrero My name is Lu and I'm a senior from NY double majoring in Ethnic Studies and Portuguese and Brazilian Studies (but I came in as a Biochem major so I am also familiar with the STEM side of Brown!). Outside of the classroom, I've been involved in Camp Kesem, Mock Trial, Club Tennis, and SOMOS, our Latinx literary magazine. I am a huge advocate for the language classes at Brown so if you have any questions about those, or literally anything else, I'd love to chat! Rebecca Herman Hi all! My name is Rebecca and I'm a senior from Woodcliff Lake, NJ (originally from NYC) studying History with a focus in Legal History. Outside of the classroom, I'm a competitive dancer for the Brown Ballroom and Latin Dance Team, a Student Coordinator for the CareerLAB's Peer Career Advising program, and an Information Session Leader with the Admission Office. If you have any questions about the Open Curriculum, the Providence food scene, pre-law advising, why I chose Brown, or anything else, I'd love to chat with you! Grace Jarell Hi there, my name is Grace and I’m a sophomore from the mountains of New Hampshire! I’m currently double-concentrating in Health and Human Biology and English and I’m also on the pre-medicine track. I spend my weekdays volunteering at a healthcare clinic in Providence where I translate for our Spanish-speaking patient base, and I’m also involved in research at the Women and Infants Hospital. When I’m not volunteering, I spend my time away from STEM with the Brown Beekeeping Society! I’d be happy to answer any questions you have about double-concentrating, pre-medicine, research, or even bees! Connor Jenkins My name is Connor Jenkins, and I'm a senior from Pinehurst, NC studying History and Africana Studies. When I'm not giving tours, I'm involved with the Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice at Brown co-facilitating a Reading Group on the Carceral State and working alongside anti-carceral and abolitionist activists at Brown and in Providence. If you have any questions about activism at Brown, Brown's historical entanglements with the slave trade and its work to redress those legacies, advising, coming to Brown as a rural student, or anything at all, I'd love to have you on my tour! Alex Jin My name is Alex and I’m a Junior from Gaithersburg, MD studying Health and Human Biology with a focus on global health. My name is Alex and I’m a Junior from Gaithersburg MD studying Health and Human Biology with a focus in global health. I’m also part of the Program in Liberal Medical Education, fondly known as PLME. Outside of classes, I’m part of Brown Taekwondo, lead trips with the Outing Club, and sing in Brown’s BEST acapella group: Pirates Acapella! I also work as an RPL and a biology tutor. If any of that sounds interesting, I would love to have you on my tour! :) Colby Johnson My name is Colby Johnson and I am a sophomore from Charleston, WV. Here at Brown, I am an Education Studies and American Studies concentrator with specific emphasis on policy implementation. On campus I am an AV projectionist and film archivist for the MCM department, and I am a member of Fashion@Brown and Students for Educational Equity. Darci Johnson My name is Darci Johnson and I am a senior from Chicago studying Public Health and Education Studies. I am also a dual degree student pursuing a 5th year Master of Public Health at Brown. On campus, I am involved in research at Women and Infants Hospital, and I am a counselor and coordinator at Camp Kesem Rhode Island! Jackson Kelley Hi! My name is Jackson Kelley, and I’m a junior from Tacoma, WA, studying American Politics, Economics, and International and Public Affairs. Outside the classroom, I’m involved in club sports (tennis and volleyball), various preprofessional clubs (Scholars of Finance, Brown Undergraduate Law Review, Brown Consulting Club, Model UN), and work both on- and off-campus, as a Peer Career Advisor at CareerLAB and as a Starbucks barista, respectively. If you’re interested in social sciences, sports, why I chose Brown, or the pre-professional scene here, I’d love to chat with you! Shazain Khan My name is Shazain Khan and I'm a sophomore from Hopkinton, MA (the starting line for the Boston Marathon), studying Neuroscience on the pre-med track! When I'm not fiddling with brains, I'm involved with Students for Educational Equity, Umeed@Brown, and just playing my sitar whenever I get the time! If you have any questions about the pre-med track (especially if you're not planning on taking a gap year), extracurriculars at Brown, random life things, or anything else, I'd love nothing more than to chat with you! Calvin Kirk Hey! I'm Calvin (he/him) and I'm a freshman from Chicago studying economics on the public policy track! Outside of class, I volunteer with HOPE (housing opportunities for people everywhere), a housing justice and mutual aid organization, and I'm on the data board for the Brown Political Review, a politics magazine on campus. I also am a member of a quasi-official Survivor watching club! I would love to chat about Brown, Survivor, or anything else! Alp Koksal My name is Alp Koksal and I am a senior from Istanbul, Turkey, studying Biology and Music, and also on the pre-med track. Outside of the classroom, I am working with a neuroscience lab focusing on Alzheimer's Disease, and extracurricularly, I am one of the captains of the Brown Club Swimming team, a coordinator for the International Mentoring Program (who is responsible for organizing International Orientation for incoming international students) and sing with the Madrigal Singers, campus' only classical A Cappella group. I would love to chat with you if any of your interests align! Ashley Lac Hi everyone! I'm Ashley, and I'm a senior from Connecticut studying Economics. In addition to being a tour guide, I'm also a Meiklejohn Peer Advisor to first-year students, a Peer Advisor for Brown's Economics Department, and Vice-President of Women in Business. Before the semester started, I was also part of Brown's Orientation Welcoming Committee, helping our current first years adapt to life at Brown. I'm a first-gen college student, so I love all things advising and Brown related, and would love to answer any questions you have about Brown, Economics, or anything else on your mind! Isabella Longoria-Valenzuela My name is Isabella, and I am a senior concentrating in Cognitive Neuroscience and Hispanic Studies from Los Angeles, CA. Outside of the classroom, I am involved with computational cognitive neuroscience research, SOMOS: Brown's Latinx Literary Magazine, and Latinas@Brown. If you are interested in learning more about research at Brown, Brown's Latinx community, or anything else, I would love to chat with you! Olivia McClain Hello, I'm Liv and I'm a second semester junior from West Bend, Wisconsin. I study environmental science and outside the classroom I'm a leader for the Brown Outing Club, Earth Science program for elementary schoolers, and do political organizing. I'm excited to discuss the Open Curriculum, STEM/social science, work-life balance, being queer at Brown, and any questions you have! Daniel McDermott My name is Daniel McDermott; I'm a junior from Connecticut, studying Biomedical Engineering. I sing in the Chorus, I'm an engineering TA, and I play piano at Rhode Island Hospital for cancer patients. I also enjoy building things like surfboards, tables, skateboards, and other cool stuff. I love Brown, and I would be happy to chat about this wonderful place! Pilar McDonald Hi! My name is Pilar and I am a sophomore from San Francisco. I took last year off during the pandemic but I am now back and studying Environmental Studies and am doing an Independent Concentration in caregiving and care infrastructure. On campus, I am a research assistant for the Climate Development Lab and a member of SAKi (Students Against Koch Influence) at Brown. Feel free to reach out to me with any questions or just to chat! Eamon McKeever Hi y'all! My name is Eamon McKeever and I'm a senior from Chapel Hill, NC studying International and Public Affairs with a track focus in Security studies. Outside of the classroom I work as a Research Intern at the U.S. Naval War College, participate in Model UN, and play intramural soccer and inner-tube water polo. If you have any questions about any of these things, or anything regarding the Brown experience, I would love to chat with you! Makayla McPherson Hi everyone! My name is Makayla McPherson and I'm a sophomore from Simsbury, CT double concentrating in Engineering and Music. On campus, I'm involved in the AMP voice program, Brown University Chorus, the Black Student Union and the National Society of Black Engineers. I also love playing soccer with my friends, thrifting and trying out different local Boba shops. If anything I've mentioned interests you at all or you just want to say hi, please come chat with me! Zach Mulligan My name is Zach Mulligan and I'm a senior from Honolulu, HI studying Economics and Behavioral Decision Sciences. Outside of the classroom, I am the president of the Intercollegiate Finance Journal on campus, a member of the Ultimate Frisbee team, and have a radio show! If you have questions about the Open Curriculum, coming from the West Coast, double concentrating, club sports, or anything else, I'd love to chat! Francesca Mustain My name is Francesca and I am a junior at Brown studying Environmental Science on the sustainability and development track. I am from Bogotá, Colombia but have lived in 4 different countries. Outside of academics, I am intern for the Office of Sustainability, a programming coordinator at the Global Brown Center, and a volunteer for Inspiring Minds. Yohan Mutta Hello everyone! My name is Yohan Mutta, I use he/him/his pronouns. I am a junior from Kenya, studying International and Public Affairs focusing on Development and I am also pursuing a certificate in Data Fluency. Outside of the classroom, I work as a community programming coordinator with the Global Brown Center for International Students where I organize events to build community among international students at Brown. I am currently a Royce Fellow with the Swearer Center for Public Service, where I am conducting a research project grounded in engaged scholarship investigating what large infrastructure projects in post-colonial states reveal about approaches to development. I am also involved with the African Student Association, Decolonization@Brown, and the Brown University Simulation of the United Nations, our Model UN conference for high school students that brings over 1000 students to campus every fall. Beyond my pursuits in and out of the classroom, you can find me exploring Providence’s culinary offerings, working out at the Nelson Fitness Center, or curating one of my many music playlists. If any of this (or more) interests you, it’d be my distinct pleasure to tell you more! Kavya Nayak Hi! My name is Kavya and I'm a senior from Singapore and India. I'm double concentrating in Behavioral Decision Sciences & International and Public Affairs (Development). Outside of classes, I've been heavily involved with organizations like the Brown Consulting Club and the Brown Political Review. I work at the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society and also conduct my own research in visual arts and development as a Fellow at the Pembroke Institute. I've also done an internship abroad in Stockholm through Brown's Entrepreneurship Program. If any of these topics interest you -- being an international student, double concentrating in STEM/humanities, jobs/internship questions -- I look forward to chatting with you :) Josh Neronha My name is Josh, and I’m a senior from Jamestown, RI studying mechanical engineering. I research antenna technology in the School of Engineering, serve as a teaching assistant in a number of introductory engineering courses, and love exploring Providence and the surrounding area by running on one of the many bike paths! Looking forward to chatting. Sonna Obiorah Hi! My name is Sonna Obiorah and I'm a senior from Atlanta, Georgia studying theatre arts and public health. Outside of classes and studying, I'm involved with theatre on campus and I'm a part of a student theatre board. I also participated in interdisciplinary research and am currently a teaching assistant. Can't wait to chat! Chiamaka Odenigbo My name is Chiamaka Odenigbo and I am a sophomore concentrating in Mechanical Engineering. While I do live in Michigan now, New Rochelle, New York is where I call home! Outside of the classroom and this lovely job, I am on the track and field team here where I compete in both triple jump and the heptathlon. I'd love to chat about absolutely anything and everything Brown :)). Arushi Parekh My name is Arushi and I am a sophomore from Westchester County, NY. I am concentrating in International and Public Affairs as well as Classics. Aside from academics, I am a member of the Meiklejohn Peer Advising Program where I advise first-year students on how to acclimate to college life at Brown. I am also a consultant with Brown’s Global Research and Consulting Group and a member of Fashion@Brown. If you have any questions about navigating the Open Curriculum, extracurricular activities, or anything else about Brown, please feel free to reach out! Zoe Pottinger Hello! My name is Zoe Pottinger and I'm a senior from Seattle, WA concentrating in Urban Studies. I'm very involved with the Brown Outdoor Leadership Training (BOLT) program and I'm a Meiklejohn peer advisor. I've loved exploring Providence while living here and would be happy to answer any questions you might have! Tanya Qu Hey!!! I'm Tanya Qu, I'm a first-year at Brown originally from Chapel Hill, NC, and I'm pursuing an independent concentration in Law, Philosophy, and Economics and possibly doubling in music or visual arts. For music @ brown, I've been in ensembles (Orchestra, Jazz Band, World Music Ensemble) and am a part of the most funded student team on campus in charge of putting on the annual Spring Weekend Festival. For visual art @ brown, I was admitted to RISD, I run events for Ivy Film Festival, and I'm a designer for the campus lit/art publication The Indy. Lastly, I'm a part of Brown Market Shares, I'm working at a criminal investigation firm, I've done soccer and intramurals, and I actually went to a STEM high school. So my life is all over the place. Vikas Rana My name is Vikas Rana, and I am a sophomore from right outside of Philadelphia, PA. I am concentrating in chemistry, but love taking advantage of the Open Curriculum to explore classes in other departments, like history and contemplative studies. I am part of the TEDx club here on campus and do research in the Wharton Lab, studying ALS through fruit flies. In my free time, I love to go on runs or bike rides around campus and along the river. I look forward to meeting you! Sydney Rayburn Hi! My name is Sydney Rayburn and I'm a senior from Chicago, IL. At Brown, I concentrate in Public Health and have specific interests in sustainability and maternal health inequities. Outside of class, I'm involved in Smart Woman Securities, philanthropic organizations and TAing. Welcome to Brown! Britt Ruiz Hey y'all! My name is Britt Ruiz and I'm a senior from Orange County, CA studying History. When I'm not in the classroom or giving tours, I am involved with Brown's Active Minds chapter (a national organization dedicated to fighting the stigma around mental illness) and an editor for the Brown Journal of History. I am also a first-gen, low-income college student. Feel free to ask me any questions whether they be about adjusting to the New England weather or how I navigate my way through Brown as a first-gen student! Michela Savignano My name is Michela Savignano and I'm a junior from Beverly, MA studying Geochemistry. On campus, I am involved in undergraduate research looking at greenhouse gas emissions from lakes in Alaska. Additionally, I am a volunteer with the Department of Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Science's Outreach Programs as well a member of the Brown Outing Club. I am always excited to chat about why I chose Brown, what makes the Brown community so special, and anything else you might be wondering about life at Brown! Nick Sawicki My name is Nick Sawicki and I'm a junior from Pittsburgh, PA double concentrating in CS-Econ and Biology. Outside of the classroom, I write for the Economics section of the Brown Political Review and am a co-director of Brown Science Olympiad. I'm also in Brown's Program in Liberal Medical Education and conduct research for a plastic surgeon at Rhode Island Hospital, so if you have any questions about anything I just mentioned or about being a premed at Brown, feel free to reach out! Janek Schaller My name is Janek Schaller (he/him) and I'm from the beautiful city of Chicago, Illinois. I'm a sophomore, planning on double concentrating in Environmental Studies and English on the non-fiction track. Outside of academics, I'm a proud member of the Brown University Orchestra cello section, as well as a musician in the chamber music program. I'm heavily involved in the intramural soccer scene here on campus, and I'm also a copy editor for the College Hill Independent, a joint Brown - RISD student-run publication. If you have any questions about music-making at Brown, student employment, athletics, getting involved with clubs on campus, or just the college transition in general, I'd be thrilled to chat with you! Molly Siegel Hi there! My name is Molly Siegel and I am a junior from Westchester, NY double concentrating in Public Health and International and Public Affairs on the policy/governance track. Aside from getting to show prospective students around Brown, I am on the club swim team, tutor high school students, founded the Brown Opinion Project, am part of the Brown Initiative for Policy, am in Greek life, work as a peer advisor, and a couple of other things here and there! I love talking about all the reasons why I love Brown from the people to the place to anything else you may have questions about. Sydney Smith My name is Sydney Smith and I'm a senior from Montgomery County, Maryland studying Political Science and Africana Studies. Outside the classroom, I'm the captain of the Women's Club Basketball Team and am involved with the Transformative Justice Initiative at Brown! I'm also a first-generation college student and have been involved with research throughout my time at Brown. If you have any questions about navigating the Open Curriculum, student activism, getting involved in research, or the best food spots in Providence, I'd love to chat with you! Marina Triebenbacher Hi everyone! My name is Marina, and I'm a Senior from Westchester, NY studying Computer Science, but you can also find me in many pre-med courses because I'm in the PLME, Brown's 8 year medical school program. Outside of class, I love to teach, and this is my 5th semester being a TA for the CS department. Come chat with me if you want to know more about STEM at Brown or for coffee shop recommendations in the Providence area :) Nompumelelo Tshabalala My name is Mpumi, and I am a junior studying Mechanical Engineering while also exploring a variety of other disciplines thanks to the Open Curriculum. I am a self-proclaimed space nerd, and spend time building a satellite with Brown Space Engineering and organizing the annual Brown Space Horizons Conference. Among other things, I work with the International Mentoring Program to welcome new international Students to Brown and am a member of Attitude Dance Company. I'd love to tell you more about life at Brown, so feel free to ask any questions! Elliot Urgent My name is Elliot and I'm a sophomore from Bloomfield, New Jersey concentrating in International and Public Affairs on the Policy and Governance track. I spend most of my free time involved with music, listening to new tracks with the Brown Organization of Producers and Songwriters (BOPS), organizing student performances with Sounds@Brown, or producing my own songs. I also work on projects with Brown Consulting Club. Emily Wagg Sojas Wagle My name is Sojas Wagle, and I'm a junior from Springdale, AR doing an independent concentration in psychiatric epidemiology: the study of mental illness from a population perspective. I'm a board member for the theatre group Production Workshop, a Wellness Peer Educator and Sexual Assault Peer Educator for BWell Health Promotion, and a research assistant at the School of Public Health and Mindfulness Center. Sam Walhout Jolie Wei My name is Jolie Wei, and I'm a senior at Brown studying Applied Mathematics and Economics. I'm originally from the Bay Area, California! On campus, I'm involved in research in the economics department, and I'm a teaching assistant for a course called behavioral economics. If you have any questions about the Open Curriculum, advising, research, extracurriculars at Brown, or anything else, I'd love to chat with you! Olivia Williamson My name is Olivia Williamson and I’m a sophomore from Hilliard, OH intending on concentrating in Psychology! Outside of the classroom I am involved in the Brown Center for Students of Color and the Brown Market Shares Program. If you have any questions about the Open Curriculum, navigating cultural and ethnic student organizations, living sustainably on campus, why I chose Brown, or anything else, please reach out! I’d love to talk with you! Andrew Xu Hi! My name is Andrew Xu and I'm a sophomore from Belmont, MA studying Computational Biology and in the PLME program. Outside of the classroom, I also play on the Men's Rugby Team, Brown Band, do neuroscience research, and compete in Model UN. I'd love to answer your questions about why Brown, the Open Curriculum, fun classes or anything else! Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Meet Our Student Ambassadors Open details for Meet Our Student Ambassadors Bookmark this Page