Jump to content Apply Visit Give Navigation Admissions Search form Search Main menu Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid General social sciences Undergraduate degrees: BA or BS Majors select from four concentrations: applied economics, business and society; crime, law and society; globalization, environment, and policy; and social studies teaching About the major General social sciences is a multidisciplinary, undergraduate program that prepares students for success in an interconnected global environment. GSS majors learn how analyze social issues using research and critical thinking. They also develop innovative problem-solving skills, which are applicable towards professional fields like business, government, law, and education. The GSS curriculum provides flexibility in both class schedules and coursework. This allows students to tailor their educations according to their interests, and to balance multiple academic or personal pursuits in their lives. A little more info The GSS program offers courses from 15 UO departments and five professional schools. GSS majors learn how analyze social issues using research and critical thinking. GSS concentrations allow students to focus on social issues related to a specific profession including business, government, law, or education. The GSS curriculum provides flexibility in both class schedules and coursework. GSS is a great fit for students with broad interests that seek to explore multiple disciplines within the social sciences. Career opportunities GSS is a multi-disciplinary program that offers four distinct career concentrations: applied economics, business and society; crime, law and society; globalization, environment, and policy; and social studies teaching. Each concentration provides tools and/or skills for a variety of career paths. The top occupations for GSS graduates are management; sales and related occupations; office and administrative support occupations; education, and training occupations (source: EMSI). Learn More Resources Find Your Counselor UO Facts Campus Safety Residency En Español RESOURCES Campus Safety En Español Find Your Counselor Forms Regional Accreditation Request Info Status Portal Admissions 1217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Oregon Hall P: 800-BE-A-DUCK F: 541-346-5815 P: 541-346-3201 - Text Contact Us admissions@uoregon.edu Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Visit us on Instagram Accessibility Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination. Site Navigation Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Take Action Apply Visit Give