Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Connect With Us NC State's Undergraduate Admissions team is standing by to answer your questions. We’re Here to Help Need some support as you navigate the admissions process at NC State? Our dedicated team is ready to guide you from your first step to your final decision. Hours of Availability Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. ET, except university holidays. Email Contact undergrad-admissions@ncsu.edu for general admissions questions, or if you’d like to update an existing application, add new information, report a class change or request a major change. Contact campusvisits@ncsu.edu for questions about campus visits or virtual information sessions. Phone 919.515.2434 If you’d like to talk about deadlines, check on your transcript or speak with an admissions officer about a specific question, we recommend reaching our office by phone for the quickest response. Where To Find Us Joyner Visitor Center Prospective students and families may visit the Joyner Visitor Center to meet with an admissions officer. Free visitor parking is available in front of the building. 1210 Varsity Drive NC State University – Main Campus Campus Visits Office Admissions staff are available at Talley Student Union to answer any admissions questions. Visitors can check in for the in-person information session in this office. Talley Student Union – Room 2121 (main floor) Campus Visits Parking Address Coliseum Parking Deck Pay Lot (enter lower level from Cates Avenue) 201 Jensen Drive Raleigh, NC 27607 Visitor Resources Find Parking Information Download Our Visitor Guide Frequently Asked Questions We’ve got answers to all of your biggest admissions questions. Get tips for submitting test scores, understanding credit opportunities and more. Jump in Visiting Our Office Protecting the Pack Find out how we’re addressing the pandemic — and what campus visitors need to know. With the safety of our guests and staff as our top priority, we encourage you to connect with our staff by phone or email. We also welcome walk-ins to meet one-on-one with an admissions officer. Although face coverings are not required in indoor or outdoor spaces, you are encouraged to wear them if you feel more comfortable doing so. Keep Up With Campus Life On our Instagram account, you’ll find frequent student takeovers and live sessions that give a peek into the true Wolfpack student experience. Follow us Honoring those who have sacrificed their lives for… Open Our hearts ever hold you, @ncstate. 🐺🌙 Open Need a little extra help in your classes? NC State… Open Mailing Admissions Materials Applicants mailing their transcripts or other admissions materials to our office will find our mailing information below. You also have the option to submit your transcript electronically. Use the Postal Information address if your material is sent through the United States Postal Service (USPS). Use the Courier Address if your material is sent through UPS, FedEx, DHL or other shipping carriers. Postal Information Office of Undergraduate Admissions NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Courier Address Office of Undergraduate Admissions NC State University 121 Peele Hall 10 Watauga Club Drive Raleigh, NC 27607 USA Engage With Us Get the Latest Are you a prospective student? Sign up to receive emails about NC State events, programs and application deadlines. Complete our interest form It’s our goal to assist you in the most effective way possible, and we try to respond to all admissions queries within one business day. There are other opportunities to connect with us, too — whether you’re looking for an introduction to NC State, one-on-one support, timely updates or anything else. Attend a Virtual Information Session Want to learn more about our university and the admissions process? Hear from an admissions officer during a 30-minute live presentation that includes a Q&A. Your Zoom meeting link will be provided once you register. Register now Find Us on Social Media Follow our social media channels to stay up to date on admissions information and get a glimpse into life at NC State. Facebook Instagram Twitter Snapchat Other Resources Visit Want to explore our campus? Get details on tours and interest sessions, parking and directions, accomodations and more. Come see us Apply Ready to join our Wolfpack? Browse all of the information you’ll need to get started on your application. Learn more Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.