Skip to Content Skip to Navigation Mizzou Logo University of Missouri Search : Search APPLY Menu You belong here. Apply to Mizzou Check Your App Status Request InformationVisit Video description Video has no audio. Scene 1: A smiling male student rides a skateboard down the east sidewalk on MU’s Francis Quadrangle. Scene 2: We see the bustle of Lowry Mall with Memorial Union in the background as a male student in a wheelchair moves toward the camera, another male student rides a bicycle away from view, students board a bus and a golf cart drives south on Hitt Street. Scene 3: Students and professors walk back and forth on various floors of MU’s Christopher S. Bond Life Sciences Center. Pause 95% of Mizzou graduates have a successful career outcome within 6 months of graduation 11,000+ employers partner with Mizzou each year to recruit Mizzou students #1 value among public national universities in neighboring states Learn more about Mizzou’s student outcomes Get more M-I-Z in your newsfeed. Follow along on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram for important reminders and admissions info for future Tigers. Dates and Deadlines Application opens Aug. 1 Students who want to attend Mizzou next Fall can start submitting applications. FAFSA available Oct. 1 The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) becomes available on Oct. 1. We recommend all students fill out the FAFSA. Mizzou’s FAFSA code is 002516, and our priority deadline is Jan. 5. Recommended apply-by date for scholarships Nov. 15 You can apply to Mizzou at any time, but you’re encouraged to apply for admission by Nov. 15 to ensure you are able to meet the earliest scholarship deadline of Dec. 1. Learn how to Apply. Once you’ve applied to Mizzou, use ScholarshipUniverse to apply for general and departmental scholarships by Dec. 1. Apply for general and departmental scholarships Dec. 1 The priority deadline to apply for general and departmental scholarships is Dec. 1. Apply using ScholarshipUniverse. You have to submit your application for admission first. See All Dates and Deadlines Majors We’re talking opportunities. Lots of them. Love one. Love two. That’s why they made double majors and minors. At any rate, you’re sure to find a degree program that’s just right for you. Find Your Major Ask a Question or Request Information Loading... Search : Search Apply How to Apply Admission Requirements Policies & Procedures Academics Majors Honors College Study Abroad Hands-On Learning Costs & Aid Costs Scholarships Financial Aid Visit Campus Tours Online Tour About Columbia Student Living Where You’ll Live What You’ll Do Tigers You’ll Meet Information for Freshmen Transfer Students International Students Admitted Students Parents Counselors Veterans and Military Contact Admissions Reps International Ambassadors Social Media Directions Office of Admissions Phone 573-882-7786 Fax 573-882-7887 230 Jesse Hall Columbia, MO 65211 Facebook Twitter Instagram Apply to Mizzou © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. An equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer. To top