Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Afford We strive to make an NC State education affordable, and we’re consistently ranked one of the best values in American higher education. A Degree That Pays Off Your college degree is an investment in your future. At NC State, we’re committed to making that investment worthwhile. As a public university, we’re a powerful combination of affordability and value. We prepare students to enter the workforce strong (and with as little debt as possible). And our graduates see immediate returns on every dollar spent here. Cost of Attendance Browse estimated annual expenses for full-time undergraduate students. Tuition Payment Options NC State provides several methods for paying tuition. Explore resources for understanding your bill. Financial Aid We offer multiple financial aid opportunities. Find out what’s available to you. Calculate Your Cost Use our Net Price Calculator to estimate your financial aid award and out-of-pocket costs. #1 Best Public College for Your Money in N.C. Money How it adds up Applying for Financial Aid Dates and Deadlines Keep up with upcoming deadlines to ensure you never miss a thing. The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is available each year on October 1. All students who wish to be considered for federal aid and state and institutional need-based financial aid must submit a FAFSA. You don’t need to wait for an official admission decision to submit your FAFSA, and we encourage students to apply as soon as possible. Priority filing deadline for NC State: March 1 School code: 002972 Newly admitted students begin receiving financial aid package information in early April. Learn about the steps #7 Best Value Among U.S. Public Universities U.S. News & World Report Read more Scholarship Opportunities Bright minds belong on our campus — and we’re committed to helping them get here. NC State offers a limited number of competitive scholarships for incoming full-time students to recognize and cultivate academic excellence. 78% Graduate With Jobs A majority of our graduating seniors go straight from campus to a full-time career. We encourage first-year students to apply by our early action deadline of November 1 to receive priority consideration for financial aid and scholarships. Students will gain access to Pack ASSIST, our scholarship portal, after being admitted to NC State. Priority consideration deadline: February 15 In order to be considered for merit-based scholarships, you must submit the general scholarship application through Pack ASSIST. Find scholarships Park Scholarships The Park Scholarship is a four-year scholarship awarded on the basis of outstanding accomplishments and potential in scholarship, leadership, service and character. The value of the scholarship is up to $116,000 for in-state residents and $208,000 for out-of-state residents. Requires a separate application due by November 1. Must be school-endorsed or self-endorsed. Eligible to U.S. citizens, permanent residents of the U.S., or graduates from a high school located in the U.S. (regardless of citizenship status) applying for fall as a first-year student. Goodnight Scholars Program The Goodnight Scholars Program is available to prospective first-year and transfer students from low- and middle-income families across North Carolina. The scholarship is limited to students studying in the science, technology, engineering or math (STEM) disciplines or affiliated education majors. Eligible students receive an invitation to apply. The value of the scholarship is $21,000 and is renewable for up to four years for first-year students, and three years for transfer students. General Hugh Shelton Leadership Initiative Scholarship Available to prospective first-year students, the General Hugh Shelton Leadership Initiative Scholarship is a competitive academic scholarship that promotes the Shelton Leadership Center’s mission of inspiring, educating and developing value-based leaders. Shelton Scholars receive $2,000 annually for student leadership enrichment experiences, in addition to leadership seminars, networking and other professional development opportunities. Chancellor’s Leadership Scholarship The Chancellor’s Leadership Scholarship is designed for incoming first-year students with demonstrated leadership potential, academic achievement, personal talent, unique work or service experience, and financial need. Applicants should demonstrate an understanding and appreciation of diversity. The value of the scholarship is $5,000 per year. Admitted first-year students can apply through Pack ASSIST. North Carolina Teaching Fellows Program The North Carolina Teaching Fellows Program in the College of Education offers $8,250 per year in forgivable loans to teach science, technology, engineering, mathematics, agricultural education or special education. First-year and transfer applicants in North Carolina may qualify by submitting a Teaching Fellows application. Scholar Spotlight Meet Carmen Bollman From giving speeches for the Chancellor to writing code in the lab, this Goodnight Scholar is never afraid to try something new. Meet Irene Nazario Along with being a Park Scholar, she’s gaining hands-on experience with animals as she pursues her lifelong dream of becoming a vet. Meet Timothy Reid The Park Scholar and business administration major kicked off his first year here with a campaign for Student Government. Residency Determination Information At NC State, the application review process is the same for both in-state and out-of-state applicants. The Residency Determination Service (RDS) is responsible for all tuition residency classifications, reclassification requests and appeals. To apply for in-state residency consideration for tuition purposes, you must apply through the Residency Determination Service (RDS) for a Residency Classification Number (RCN). NC State must receive your RCN to verify your tuition residency classification with RDS. You will be classified out-of-state for tuition purposes until we receive your tuition residency classification from RDS. Submit your RCN on your application or through your wolfPAW account after applying. For assistance, contact RDS: www.NCresidency.org 844-319-3640 (phone) 919-835-2427 (fax) Financing Your Degree Have other questions about affording an NC State education? Our Student Services Center has answers. Learn more Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.