Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > UTeach-ACCess UTeach Access The Microsoft Sponsored UTeach Access program offers alternate entrance to The University of Texas at Austin to students interested in pursuing a bachelor’s of science degree in biology, chemistry, mathematics, or physics, as well as earning their middle or high school teaching certification. UTeach Access students begin their college experience co-enrolled taking courses at both The University of Texas at Austin (UT) and nearby at Austin Community College (ACC) Rio Grande Campus. Students have all the benefits of being a Longhorn including access to housing, libraries and NCAA sporting events, and additionally receive tailored support: Including dedicated advising, direct support from UTeach faculty and staff, and regular cohort meetings. Upon completion of the UTeach Access program, students continue their undergraduate studies at UT Austin full-time, on track for graduation and are automatically admissible to the College of Natural Sciences UTeach Program. If you received an admissions offer to join the UTeach Access program and have questions, please make an appointment to speak with our advisors or program leader. To accept the UTeach Access offer and co-enroll: Complete the steps in the freshman After-Admission Checklist. During UT Freshman Orientation, you will participate in both UT and CNS events as well as meet with a UTeach Access advisor, meet faculty from your major, register for classes and tour ACC’s Rio Grande Campus. View the degree plans UTeach Access Eligibility A student at this time cannot apply to participate in UTeach Access. Rather, admission to the program is offered to a select number of students who apply for freshman admission to the College of Natural Science and indicate an interest in pursuing secondary teaching certification in their content area. The Office of Admissions applies the same holistic review process it uses to evaluate all applications to determine who receives a UTeach Access offer. All students offered UTeach Access have the option to participate instead in the Coordinated Admission Program (CAP). Choose the program that’s right for you. Coordinated Admission Program (CAP) In accepting the UTeach Access offer, you cancel your CAP option and vice versa. If you accept UTeach Access but later decide not to participate in the program, you may not participate in CAP but must apply for transfer admission if you wish to attend the university. UTeach Access Requirements Over the first three to four long semesters, students enrolled in UTeach Access take seven to twelve transferable hours of coursework at Austin Community College (ACC) – Rio Grande, plus three to nine hours at UT Austin from the prescribed degree plans for your area of study. Students register for courses with the help of dedicated academic advisors on each campus, ensuring they meet program requirements. Program Completion UTeach Access students have 3 to 4 long semesters (based on your degree plan) to complete the prescribed coursework at ACC and at UT Austin. By the end of the fall/spring semester prior to transition, students must achieve a cumulative 2.75 grade-point average (GPA) in courses undertaken at UT Austin and a cumulative 3.00 GPA in courses undertaken at ACC in order to qualify for admission to their majors in the College of Natural Sciences. Complete terms and conditions are defined in the UTeach Access contract, accessible in MyStatus to those offered admission to the program. If you received an admissions offer to join the UTeach Access program and have questions, please make an appointment to speak with our advisors or program leader. UTeach Access FAQ’s Is UTeach Access right for me? If you are passionate about becoming a biology, chemistry, mathematics or physics Teacher this is the pathway for you. UTeach Access is designed to support students who would enter the UTeach program at UT Austin upon completion of the co-enrollment portion of the program. As a result, UTeach Access may not be the best choice for all students. If you’re unsure about whether UTeach Access is right for you, talk with an admissions counselor or email to access@uteach.utexas.edu to learn about your options. Can I defer enrollment in UTeach Access? No, it isn’t possible to defer your UTeach Access offer. If you don’t participate and then decide you want to attend the university at a later date, you must apply for transfer admission. Can I finish UTeach Access early? No, it isn’t possible to complete UTeach Access requirements early. Students who enroll in UTeach Access may not transfer to the university on a full-time basis until they complete the program requirements. Will I be eligible for financial aid? Yes. If you apply for financial aid, the university will process your application in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid, taking into consideration cost of attendance at both campuses. To be eligible for aid disbursement, you must be enrolled in a minimum of 12 hours each semester (between both institutions). If you qualify for financial aid, keep in mind that you are responsible for meeting the payment deadlines of both campuses. Because the university’s deadlines may not align with ACC’s, you may need to set up a payment plan or to take an emergency loan to pay ACC while awaiting release of funds from the university. Where can I live while I’m in UTeach Access? You have the option of applying to live in the university’s on-campus housing during your time in UTeach Access. Students will need to attend courses in-person in Austin, but there are no housing requirements for UTeach ACCess participants. Will I be able to attend football games as a student? Yes. UTeach Access program participants may elect to purchase tickets to any Longhorn athletics events (including football) just like other students. What sorts of clubs and activities are available to UTeach Access students? UTeach Access students may participate in clubs and activities at both UT Austin and ACC. Support services are available at both campuses as well. Can I join a sorority or fraternity? Contact Sorority and Fraternity Life for more information. Some organizations allow PACE/ UTeach Access members to participate. admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022