Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Tulio Huggins Class of 2023 back Click to Close Bio Hi guys! The name's Tulio (yes, like the guy from Rio) Huggins, and I am a '23! I am from the beautiful state of Pennsylvania, where I have lived for the past couple of years. I am double majoring in History and English with a concentration in Creative Writing. In my free time, I love to hang out with friends at Dartmouth Apologia, my fraternity, and in Aquinas House! Feel free to ask any questions you might have. I hope that you all have a blessed day! Academic Program History & English with Concentration in Creative Writing Favorite Thing Right Now Hanging out with my fraternity brother and hanging out in Aquinas House! Hometown Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania Pronouns He/him/his About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Tulio Huggins back Click to Close Tulio's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallOn Campus Favorite Class: HIST 2: #EverythingHasAHistory: Understanding America Today This history class is dedicated to investigating the history behind current events. In this term, we looked at the history behind immigration, Silicon Valley, and affirmative action. And in the final weeks of the term, we were able to choose what we wanted to learn about, and we chose to look at the history of impeachment. It is a very cool class with great class discussions. I would highly recommend! WinterOn Campus Favorite Class: COSC 1: Introduction to Programming and Computation COSC 1 is an intro to Computer Science course. I had never taken a CS course, so learning the new Python language was definitely tough! Even so, I learned so much about how to code, and the help provided by TAs and the professors is invaluable in this course! SpringOnline Favorite Class: AAAS 80.08: African American Religion and Culture in Jim Crow America This was the first class I ever took in the African and African American Studies and Religion Department. It opened my eyes to the various ways African Americans in the Jim Crow era survived when the world was stacked up against them. I would highly recommend! Sophomore Year Click to Open FallOn-Campus! Favorite Class: CRWT 10: Introduction to Fiction This was my first creative writing class ever! It was great to create new works and get feedback from my classmates and my professor. WinterOn-Campus! Favorite Class: HIST 45: Early Modern Europe 1300-1650 An interesting class where we focused on the spread of literature during this time period. Also one of my smallest classes; only five other classmates! SpringOn-Campus! Favorite Class: CRWT 20: Intermediate Fiction I Another Creative Writing course! I wonder if I am doing something with that with my major :) Junior Year Click to Open FallLondon! Favorite Class: Creative Writing Prose: The Short Story This class was a creative writing class, and it gave me a lot of insight into what I as an author should want my readers to do when they confront the piece. It was an amazing class, and it was so cool to be able to take it in London! WinterOn-Campus Favorite Class: REL 34: Christianity and Conversion in the Northern World: Vikings, Celts, and Anglo-Saxons My desire to learn about religion and history was thoroughly fulfilled in this class, where we looked at the various Christian conversions in different European areas. I learned a lot, and I really loved the prof's lectures! SpringOn-Campus I'm not taking any classes this term! Instead, I am doing a fellowship through the Leslie Center for Humanities, where I am writing an interconnected short story collection set in an evangelical church youth group. Work Hard, Play Hard: A Green Key Weekend at Dartmouth! After two years, Dartmouth's annual spring festival, known affectionately as Green Key, occurred this weekend! The weekend held many events, but even so, I saw the Dartmouth culture of work hard, play hard. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/29/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts academics; green key Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Wait, You're Not Taking Classes? This term, I am doing a research fellowship through the Leslie Center for Humanities! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/19/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts fellowships Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter First Year Trips Training! Last Saturday, instead of spending time doing work in Sanborn, spending time on the Green, or hanging out in my fraternity house, I spent most of the day out on the golf course, with a backpack full of supplies for outdoor events. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/13/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts First Year Trips Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter A Protestant walks into a Catholic student center.... Coming to Dartmouth, I knew I wanted to be involved in the Christian community as a student. In my junior year, I have been involved in Dartmouth's Catholic student center called Aquinas House! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/6/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts christianity christian religious Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Out and About Again! I am out of quarantine! After eight days in isolation and many covid tests later, I finally got a negative test. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/26/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts community; off-campus Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter An Eventful Spring Term so Far Well, I wasn't expecting it, but it was inevitable. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/21/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts COVID-19 Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter It's Spring Term Baby! The spring term of my junior year has finally arrived! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/5/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Spring Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Coming to the End of Winter Term What a hectic term! But I wouldn't change it for the world. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 03/13/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Winter reflection Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Encountering Faith and Reason with Other Dartmouth Students! Last week, I had the opportunity to attend the Veritas Conference in Boston with Dartmouth's Christian thought journal, which turned out to be the highlight of my term. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 02/16/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts conference apologia journal Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Ice Hockey with my Fraternity Brothers! I was not expecting to play hockey when I was in college. However, this term I had a chance to play in the intermural hockey league! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 02/13/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Hockey Skating; Winter sports Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 next last Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback