Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Transfer Students You are here Home Apply Transfer Students About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Learn everything you need to know about applying to Temple as a transfer student. Here at Temple, we’re committed to making the transfer process as easy as possible. Find out what the application process is like and what the most important deadlines are. Who is a transfer student? If you’ve attempted 15 or more college-level credits after high school graduation, you should apply to Temple as a transfer student. High school graduates who have attempted less than 15 college-level credits should contact one of our transfer admissions counselors to discuss options. Learn more about applying as an international transfer student. Talk to Our Admissions Staff You can now schedule a virtual appointment with an undergraduate admissions representative. We’re here to help you with any questions you may have about Temple and navigating the admissions process. First-year Staff Appointments Transfer Staff Appointments Contents How to ApplyWhen to ApplyTransfer Your CreditsScholarshipsTransfer ExperienceAdmitted Students How to Apply Transform your college experience—and your future—at Temple, where nearly half of new Owls transfer from other colleges and universities. 1. Make an application plan. If you’re a transfer applicant, you’ll first need to decide if you are applying for the spring semester (January start) or fall semester (August start). Be sure to review the application deadlines below for more information. 2. Apply using the Common Application. Temple exclusively uses the Common Application for all transfer student submissions. Be sure to indicate in your application if you are a Dual Admissions student. Dual Admissions is our partnership with local, two-year community colleges through which you can enroll at Temple. There’s an application fee of $55, which you will submit at the same time as the Common Application unless you qualify for a waiver through a federal or state program. After submitting the Common Application, you’ll need to send your official high school and college transcripts to our Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Sending your transcripts The best option is to have official transcripts sent to us electronically. From your institution's website simply select Temple University from the drop-down menu (if available). If your school requires that the transcript be sent via email, please use the following address. Email: ugapp@temple.edu If your school is unable to send electronic transcripts please request the official transcript be mailed to the following address. Temple University Undergraduate Admissions 1801 N. Broad Street Conwell 103 Philadelphia, PA 19122 High school transcripts only need to be sent if you have completed less than 30 college credits. Please contact your high school's counseling office to request a transcript to be sent to us. Get started Applying Made Simple Complete the Common Application and apply as a transfer student to Temple. Get started Link to Common Application What We Consider There are several factors we consider when reviewing applications. Get an idea of what we are looking for by reviewing the following items. Previous College Academic History This is the basis of our admissions decision, as it is most telling of the work you will demonstrate as a Temple student. The average GPA for incoming fall 2021 transfer students was 3.23. All previous college coursework is considered even if you attended more than one college or university. Remedial and developmental coursework is not counted toward our 15-credit minimum. The Architecture, Nursing and Health Information Management programs have higher GPA requirements. If you are seeking a second bachelor’s degree, note that Nursing, the College of Liberal Arts, and the College of Education and Human Development do not grant admission to second-degree students. The Fox School of Business does not grant admission to students who have already completed a first degree in a business-related field at a U.S. institution. College of Science and Technology students wanting to complete prerequisites toward professional programs should contact the Office of Continuing Studies. High School Performance We require an official high school transcript for students who have completed fewer than 30 college credits. We may review your high school work as part of our admission decision. Application Essay This is your opportunity to describe the reasons you are interested in transferring schools, explain any academic trends or tell us something that is not evident in your application. Extracurricular Activities Tell us about what you do outside the classroom. Your outside interests help paint the full picture of who you are and can factor into the review process. Optional Letter of Recommendation Although not required for transfer students, we accept letters of recommendation. Your letters should be submitted by individuals who can speak to your academic abilities and personal accomplishments, such as an advisor or professor. Additional materials for Boyer College of Music and Dance and Tyler School of Art and Architecture Some majors in the Boyer College of Music and Dance and the Tyler School of Art and Architecture may require additional supporting information such as an audition, interview or portfolio. Please check your intended major’s specific requirements with the school or college below. Boyer College of Music and Dance Tyler School of Art and Architecture For schools and colleges with such requirements, you may schedule your audition and submit your portfolio for review prior to completing the submission of your application. 3. Activate your TUportal account. Shortly after you submit your Common Application, you’ll receive an email to activate your TUportal, which is a communication platform we use to keep you up-to-date with the admissions process. 4. Check the status of your application with TUportal. TUportal is a platform we use to communicate with you and provide important updates throughout the application and enrollment process. You’ll need to activate an account to complete your application and it’s where you can check the status of your application. It’s the gateway to the rest of the application process, so make sure to keep your username and password handy. Return to top When to Apply Transfer applications are reviewed on a rolling basis for each semester. The sooner you submit your application, the sooner you will receive a decision. Important Dates for Transfer Students Fall Semester Start Spring Semester Start Application Deadline: June 1 Nursing Application Deadline: Feb. 1 *Nursing is a four-year program, even for transfer students. Limited spaces are available. Application Deadline: Nov. 1 Return to top Transfer Your Credits Generally, Temple accepts academic, college-level courses with a grade of C or better. Please note that for semesters impacted by COVID-19, we will also accept courses completed with a pass designation in place of a grade. There’s no limit to the number of credits Temple can accept, but you must complete at least 45 of your last 60 credits here to earn a Temple degree. Once you have been officially admitted, an admissions counselor will review your credits and the evaluation will be available on your TUportal account. Use our online Transfer Equivalency Tool to get an idea of how your college-level credits may transfer to Temple. Transfer Equivalency Tool The Transfer Equivalency Tool helps current and prospective students determine how their college-level academic credits may transfer to Temple. Use these tables to find the current listing of available Temple equivalents to classes at various two-year and four-year institutions, as well as Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, CLEP and A-Level exams. Explore how to use the Transfer Equivalency Tool. Explore the Tool Transfer Credit Policy Learn about Temple’s policy for transferring credits. Read More Learn more Dual Admissions We’ve partnered with several regional, two-year colleges to create a clear path from community college to a Temple degree so you can transfer your credits and earn your degree here. Learn more Link to Dual Admission Return to top Scholarships New transfer students with a cumulative GPA of 3.3 or higher at the time of admission are considered for academic scholarships. There is no separate application required. Note: Scholarships are renewable for up to three years as a full-time undergraduate student as long as you maintain a GPA of 3.0 or higher at Temple. About Scholarships More details. Explore Your Options Learn about our tuition rates, how to be considered for financial aid and our scholarship offerings. More details. Link to Cost, Aid and Scholarships page. Return to top The True Transfer Experience Students have many reasons for transferring to Temple—whether you’re participating in the Dual Admissions program or looking for a different college experience, we welcome you here. Meet student vlogger Olivia Osborne, a junior business administration major, who decided to make a change and transfer to Temple for her sophomore year. Watch Olivia’s story and experience as a transfer student below, or check out our YouTube channel for more stories. Return to top Next Steps Next Steps for Admitted Students Have you officially been admitted to Temple? Congratulations! Learn more about your next steps as an admitted student. Next Steps Find the information you need to secure your place at Temple, including accepting your offer of admission and submitting your enrollment deposit. Visit Us Visit Temple Join us for an on-campus or virtual tour, connect with an admissions representative or register for a live information session. Visit Us Join us for an on-campus or virtual tour, connect with an admissions representative or register for a live information session. Back to Apply Go back to ApplyMore in Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info