Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Financial Aid FAQs Find a Question: Category Click to Open Early Decision and Financial Aid General Financial Aid Study Abroad and Financial Aid Tax Returns Back to top chevrons up Most Frequently Asked Questions Click to Open Most Frequently Asked Questions You're always welcome to email or call us for answers, but for your convenience, we've curated our responses to the most common questions that arise among applicants. Early Decision and Financial Aid I was admitted Early Decision, what if I have questions about my financial aid? What happens if the financial aid award doesn't seem as though it will work for my family? Gap Years If I take a Gap Year, what happens to my financial aid award? General Financial Aid Will I lose some financial aid if I receive an outside award/scholarship? Will my aid change after the first year? Early Decision and Financial Aid Click to Open Early Decision and Financial Aid Does applying Early Decision affect Financial Aid? I was admitted Early Decision, what if I have questions about my financial aid? What happens if the financial aid award doesn't seem as though it will work for my family? What if I have been selected for Federal Verification? When will I know what my financial aid award looks like? General Financial Aid Click to Open General Financial Aid As an international student am I eligible for financial aid? Can I receive financial aid when I'm living on campus and not taking classes? Does Dartmouth help fund unpaid internships or research? How do I apply for financial aid? Is there an easy way to estimate how much it will cost my family for me to attend Dartmouth? What can I do if I'm not happy with my financial aid award? What if my parents are divorced or separated? What is the Expected Family Contribution (EFC)? What is the Federal Work-Study Program and how does Dartmouth help students to find employment to make up this part of their financial aid package? When is the financial aid deadline? Will I lose some financial aid if I receive an outside award/scholarship? Will my aid change after the first year? Study Abroad and Financial Aid Click to Open Study Abroad and Financial Aid How do I pay for a Dartmouth off-campus program? How do I pay for official exchange programs? How do I pay for transfer terms? Tax Returns Click to Open Tax Returns What documents do I need to submit for parental tax returns? Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback