Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Admission to majors Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Apply Home Apply Admission to majors Dates and deadlines Freshman How to apply Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Parents & Families Preparing for college Running Start Transfer How to apply Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Transfer GPA Transfer credit policies WA CC Equivalency Guide Transfer planning resources Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Postbaccalaureate How to apply Military There are three types of majors at the UW — open, minimum requirements and capacity-constrained. Your admission to a major at the UW depends on the major you are interested in and your application type. Types of majors Open majors These majors are open to you when you’re admitted to the UW or anytime thereafter. Majors with minimum requirements These majors have additional admission requirements. Once you’re a UW student and meet the minimum requirements, you can be admitted without further screening. Capacity-constrained majors Capacity-constrained majors have additional requirements and selective screening, which may include an additional application process. Completing the minimum UW admission requirements does not guarantee admission to capacity-constrained majors. With the exception of computer science and engineering, you can apply to these majors once you are a UW student. Freshman admission to majors Transfer admission to majors Freshman admission to majors Some majors (such as computer science and engineering) are in high demand; for admission to those, you must indicate them as your first-choice major on the application to be considered for direct admission. Other majors have more capacity and can accommodate all students who request them. Understanding which majors are open, which have minimum requirements and which are capacity-constrained will help you make an informed decision about your major. Your requested first- and second-choice majors may be used as factors in your admission decision. Learn more about specific majors. Computer science and computer engineering Most students earning computer science or computer engineering degrees from the UW will be admitted directly to the computer science or computer engineering majors as freshmen. You must list computer science or computer engineering as your first-choice major on the application to be considered for Direct to Major admission. You will not be considered if you only list computer science or computer engineering as your second-choice major. If you’re not admitted directly as a freshman, it’s unlikely you’ll be admitted to either computer science or computer engineering as a UW student. Engineering If you’re interested in an engineering degree other than computer engineering, select any engineering major (or engineering undeclared), as your first-choice major on your application. You’ll automatically be considered for Direct to College admission to the College of Engineering. You may also be considered for Direct to College admission if you list computer science or computer engineering as your first-choice and you’re not admitted directly AND you list an engineering second-choice major (other than computer engineering). UPDATE: Autumn 2022 applicants who listed engineering second, were not considered for Direct to College admission. If admitted Direct to College, you’ll enter the UW with an “engineering undeclared” designation and have opportunities to explore all engineering disciplines (except computer engineering) before requesting placement in an engineering major. All engineering undeclared students who meet the requirements are guaranteed placement into an engineering major. If you’re not admitted directly to the College of Engineering as a freshman, there are opportunities to apply at a later date, but admission to engineering majors is competitive, and space may be limited. Transfer admission to majors Admission to majors for transfer students depends largely on the program to which you are applying. Some UW programs require that you enroll at the UW before applying to the major, while others require a separate application in addition to the UW application. Use the MyMajor tool to determine what your major requires. Home Apply Admission to majors Dates and deadlines Freshman How to apply Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Parents & Families Preparing for college Running Start Transfer How to apply Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Transfer GPA Transfer credit policies WA CC Equivalency Guide Transfer planning resources Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Postbaccalaureate How to apply Military Resources What is my application type WA CC Equivalency Guide Disability resources Freshman viewbook – interactive version Freshman viewbook – pdf Transfer viewbook University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA