Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Undergraduate Admissions Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy First-Year ApplicantsIt all starts here Transfer ApplicantsEasy transition Check Application Status Costs & Aid Apply for Aid Financial Aid Eligibility Costs to Attend Financial Aid Calculator Value of a Cornell Education Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Facts Frequently Asked Questions Cornell A-Z Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections You are here Home » Learn » First-Year Experience print share Facebook Twitter First-Year Experience Orientation: Getting Started at Cornell During New Student Orientation you’ll have time to become familiar with Cornell, learn about campus resources, get to know other students, meet your advisor, and begin learning how to get involved on campus. You'll meet student volunteers who plan activities and mentor small groups of new students. They remember what it's like to be new on campus and are excited to welcome and guide you. Orientation is just the start of your Cornell experience. We encourage you to continue attending student programs, and to ask questions throughout your time at Cornell. Learn more about orientation. The Tatkon Center: Resources and Support for New Students The Tatkon Center is for all new students—first-year and transfer—throughout their first year on campus. At Tatkon you'll find social, academic, wellness, and career-related programs; information and referral services; drop-in tutoring; study spaces; and professional counseling hours. Upper-level student staff know Cornell well and are ready to answer questions and share information about opportunities on campus and beyond. All new students receive a weekly e-newsletter with information about Tatkon's diverse program offerings. Learn more about Tatkon. Living and Learning on Campus Wondering where you’ll live? Whether you move into one of our themed program house communities or into a traditional residence hall, you’ll be in close proximity to community centers, dining halls, fitness and recreation facilities, and other resources. All of Cornell’s residence halls have live-in student and professional staff members who offer support and a wealth of social and educational programs to facilitate your transition to Cornell. They will help you learn about yourself and those around you, and will assist in building an inclusive community. Interested in being part of shaping this community from the beginning? Consider joining your community’s Hall Council! Getting to Know Faculty Faculty-in-Residence and Faculty Fellows are committed to building community with new students. They'll help you explore intellectual topics, find research opportunities, navigate your first year, connect with others, discover the Ithaca community, and meet faculty and others who support the student experience. As a first-year student, you will participate in First-Year Writing Seminars and have the opportunity to take a Learning Where You Live course. These are small, seminar-style classes, usually taught without letter grades, with a focus on building relationships, innovative teaching, and fascinating topics. Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Contact Us From your first questions about Cornell to the completion of your application, the Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you find the information you need. Website Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. University Privacy Statement Undergraduate Admissions Office Cornell University 410 Thurston Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 admissions@cornell.edu Tel: 607.255.5241 Fax: 607.255.0659 © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment Admitted Students