Skip to main content Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Connect Visit Apply Search Search Menu Menu Search for: Search Clear Search Close Search Our StudentsToggle Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus LifeToggle Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Connect Visit Apply Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Families Prospective Families Joining the Duke Family Sending your child to college can be as daunting as it is exciting. That’s why we want to help make the transition as smooth as possible for both you and your child—because when your child joins the Duke community, so do you. Quote Created with Sketch. Duke does a phenomenal job of listening to their community and making sure it’s a safe place to be yourself. Jane Jackson Duke Parent, Clayton, North Carolina Safety First Campus Safety and Security Duke Police Annual Clery Report Duke Occupational and Environmental Safety Office Open The First Year: For Students ARRIVING AND THRIVING AT DUKE Within the nurturing East Campus community, surrounded by other first-year students and supported by countless academic resources, your child can embrace life at Duke and lay the foundation for four years of exploration and discovery. First Year A first-year experience designed around your child LEARN MORE East Campus A place for all first-years to live and learn together LEARN MORE Campus Traditions A community defined by spirit LEARN MORE Learn More Prospective Families Mailing List The First Year Academic Life Academic Support East Campus Tour Open Quote Created with Sketch. I felt comfortable sending my kid 3,000 miles from home because of the safety net that exists at Duke—the connected student body, the first-year experience of all being on one campus, and mentors who know you and greet you by name. Jonathan Prince Duke Parent, Los Angeles, California The First Year: For Families THERE, EVERY STEP OF THE WAY As a Duke family member, you have so many milestones to look forward to as your child settles in and becomes a Dukie. Aug 20Oct 7-11Nov 22-27Dec 2Jan 11 Move-In A whirlwind day, during which your child will settle in, meet classmates, and be welcomed into the Duke community. Fall Break A long weekend to visit home, take a trip with friends, or relax on campus. Thanksgiving Break For students on campus, there are myriad events hosted by campus partners. Fall Semester Ends Classes end and students dive into “reading period” to study, write, and prepare for exams, after which they head home for Winter Break. Spring Semester Begins Students return re-energized for a whole new panel of courses at the start of their spring semester. Quote Created with Sketch. I’m not an alumna, but I feel like I went there because I’m so much a part of the community. Duke now feels like my second home. JENNIFER MITTLEMAN DUKE PARENT, CRESSKILL, NEW JERSEY Resources Support when you need it During your child’s four years at Duke, there inevitably will be moments when they will need some extra support or guidance. Duke will be there—for them and for you. Join Our Mailing List Join the Prospective Families mailing list to receive information about Duke University. Join Here Financial Aid A dedicated undergraduate financial support office to provide financial guidance Visit Financial Aid Health, Safety, Security Health and wellness facilities, programs, and initiatives to promote and maintain a healthy, happy lifestyle Visit Campus Police Learn More Prospective Families Mailing List Academic Support Financial Support Health, Safety, Security Open Our Students 01 Campus Life 02 Financial Support 03 Join Our Mailing List Sign Up Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support © DUKE.EDU 2022 Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Disable Animations