Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site Undergraduate Research STARS Research Pioneering discoveries by students While working with and learning from faculty at the forefront of today’s most exciting breakthroughs in all disciplines, Yale undergraduates have discovered new species, created new technologies, developed and patented new products, and co-authored original research. Yale research changing the world Yale researchers recently tested the possibility that a single vaccine could tackle both Zika and the West Nile Virus. Yale physicists discovered a time crystal that “ticks” upon exposure to an electromagnetic pulse, and Yale scholars of Architecture and Forestry collaborated with the UN to design an Ecological Living Module. Extraordinary resources, available to all To inspire original research, Yalies have access to a dazzling collection of unique resources at their fingertips including the Center for Engineering Innovation and Design, the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, the Brain Imaging Center, the Peabody Museum of Natural History, the Yale Collection of Musical Instruments, the Yale University Art Gallery and Yale Center for British Art. 100+ Summer research fellowships awarded to first-year students 95% Undergraduate science majors who do research with faculty. $1 Million+ Funding for undergraduate science research fellowships annually 800 Science, math, and engineering labs at Yale College and the graduate and professional schools. 15,000,000 Holdings in Yale’s libraries Real research in the first year First-year students can begin conducting original research by using a Yale College First-Year Summer Research Fellowship that provides support for a summer research experience in the sciences and/or engineering under the supervision of a Yale faculty member. More than 100 such fellowships are set aside for first-year students. Diversity in the sciences Since 1995, Yale’s nationally recognized STARS (Science, Technology and Research Scholars) Program has promoted diversity in the sciences through mentoring, academic year study groups, and an original research-based summer program for students in their first and second years. Juniors and seniors have the opportunity to continue their research through the STARS II Program. Blast off! A team from the Yale Undergraduate Aerospace Association was chosen by NASA as one of sixteen across the country whose CubeSat research satellites will be flown into space as auxiliary payloads on upcoming space missions. Yale’s Bouchet Low-Earth Alpha/Beta Space Telescope (BLAST) will map the distribution of galactic cosmic radiation, providing insight into the origins of the universe. STEM Faculty Features Learn about research, facilities, and opportunities for undergraduates to contribute to cutting-edge discoveries and innovations from Yale faculty. BULLDOG BLOGS Grace Hopper and The Future of Women in Tech Posted by Joanna Wu BULLDOG BLOGS I Did Research in the Beinecke and It Was Extremely Thrilling Posted by Lily Dodd In This Section A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved