Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site Affordability: The Basics Yale admits students without regard to their ability to pay and meets 100% of demonstrated financial need. For all students. Without loans. Affordable Yale: The Rojas Family The Financial Aid Package Yale awards all financial aid on the basis of financial need. Students who qualify for financial aid receive a need-based Yale Scholarship that can vary from a few thousand dollars to over $65,000 per year. Affordable. For Everyone. Families whose total gross income is less than $75,000 (with typical assets) are not expected to make a contribution towards their child’s Yale education. Hundreds of Yale undergraduate families have an expected parental contribution of $0. FAQS All Students Means All Students Yale’s need-based financial aid awards meet the full demonstrated financial need of all students, regardless of citizenship or immigration status. This includes undocumented students living in the US, with or without DACA status. $60,403 Average need-based scholarship in 2020-2021. See who qualifies for aid. $13,000 median net cost for students receiving financial aid. $0 parent share for households with less than $75,000 in annual income and typical assets Learn More Affordability: The Details 85% Yale College graduates in the Class of 2021 with no student loan debt. See who qualifies for aid. QUESTBRIDGE AT YALE Yale is a partner with QuestBridge, a national non-profit program that links high-achieving low-income students with scholarships at some of the nation’s best colleges. Learn More Affordability - The Details Related Links Office of Undergraduate Financial Aid Understanding Student Effort ROTC at Yale Financial Aid for International Students Quick Cost Estimator Estimate your Yale cost in 3 minutes with the MyinTuition Quick Cost Estimator. Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved