Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Preparing for college Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Apply Home Apply Admission to majors Dates and deadlines Freshman How to apply Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Parents & Families Preparing for college Running Start Transfer How to apply Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Transfer GPA Transfer credit policies WA CC Equivalency Guide Transfer planning resources Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Postbaccalaureate How to apply Military Choosing to go to college is an investment in yourself. Not only do you stand to make more income over your lifetime but you will expose yourself to opportunities and experiences you wouldn’t have encountered otherwise. So, how do you make sure what you’re doing now is setting yourself up to get where you want to go? The following resources are a good place to start. Courses to take in high school Making the most of your high school schedule Satisfying College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Khan Academy NOTE: Although the UW no longer requires the SAT/ACT as part of the application process, you are still able to send your scores if you’d like. Connect your PSAT/NMSQT scores to Khan Academy to create free personalized study plans and strengthen the subjects you have potential to improve. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> Explore colleges Big Future Sponsored by the CollegeBoard, explore and compare colleges to see what type of institution might be a good fit for you. Strive Scan Virtual presentations to learn more about the institutions you’re interested in, including group presentations and sessions on general college search topics as well. FairTest Find other schools who have test optional or test blind policies. Maximize your college search Not sure where to begin your college search? Let us help. This recent panel reviewed free college planning tools, shared guidance from counseling colleagues on the high school side along with UW admissions counselors. Watch the recording Attend a college fair Traditional in-person college fairs are slowly making their return this year. In the interim, check out these virtual options featuring hundreds of institutions with virtual booths and presentations. National virtual college fairs Coalition for College virtual fairs Find a national college fair near you Use these college fair tips to make the most of your college fair experience. Home Apply Admission to majors Dates and deadlines Freshman How to apply Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Parents & Families Preparing for college Running Start Transfer How to apply Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Transfer GPA Transfer credit policies WA CC Equivalency Guide Transfer planning resources Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Postbaccalaureate How to apply Military Resources What is my application type WA CC Equivalency Guide Disability resources Freshman viewbook – interactive version Freshman viewbook – pdf Transfer viewbook University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA