Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home Non-Degree Application Non-Degree Seeking Students If you are interested in taking a course(s) but not earning a degree, you may be eligible to register as a non-degree seeking student (provided you have not already been denied admission to the university as a degree-seeking student). Students often choose to apply as non-degree seeking to complete missing prerequisite courses for graduate school, for career development, or for personal enrichment. Deadlines Semester Deadline Spring December 1 Summer May 1 Fall August 1 There are two different categories of non-degree seeking student status: those who have previously earned a bachelor’s degree (Postbaccalaureate or “post-bacc”) and those who will not have a bachelor's degree before enrolling at FSU (Prebaccalaureate or “pre-bacc”). Postbaccalaureate Non-Degree (holds a bachelor's degree or higher) May enroll in either undergraduate or graduate level courses. Coursework taken as a non-degree student carries no degree credit. Up to 12 semester hours earned as a graduate non-degree student may be applied toward a graduate degree only with the approval of the appropriate department chair and dean upon acceptance into a degree program (provided that a grade of "B" [3.0] or better has been achieved) Requires final approval by the Graduate School (applicants who have been denied admission to a graduate program will not be admitted). More information can be found on the graduate school page. Prebaccalaureate Non-Degree (holds the equivalent to a high school diploma and may have some college courses, but not a bachelor’s degree) May only enroll in undergraduate level courses. Coursework taken as a non-degree student carries no degree credit. Up to 15 semester hours earned as an undergraduate non-degree student may be applied toward an undergraduate degree only with the approval of the appropriate dean upon acceptance into a degree program. Requires final approval by the Office of Admissions (applicants who have been denied admission as a degree-seeking student or who missed the deadline to apply as degree seeking will not be considered for non-degree admission). Students who are seeking a degree at another institution and wish to take courses at Florida State to transfer back to the home institution should apply as a transient student. Course registration for all non-degree seeking students is on a space-available basis and, in some cases, may require departmental approval. Students must adhere to the same academic rules that apply to degree-seeking students (e.g., application deadlines, fees, drop/add, withdrawals, grading, retention policies, etc.). Students who subsequently decide to pursue a degree must submit the appropriate admission application. Enrollment as a non-degree student does not guarantee admission to the University as a degree-seeking student. Applicants who have been denied admission as a degree-seeking student or who missed the deadline for submitting a degree-seeking application will not be considered for enrollment as a non-degree student. Proceed to Non-Degree Application Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University.