This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Apply Visit Give Students Parents Alumni Faculty & Staff BackBackClose Home About BC About BC Admission Academics Campus Life Research Jesuit, Catholic Undergraduate Admission DirectoryA to Z Listing Close Apply Visit Give Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Current Students Undergraduate Admission home Apply Eagle Eye Campus Visits We are pleased to welcome prospective first-year students back to campus for in-person Eagle Eye Campus Visits. Led by an admission counselor, these two-hour visits include an information session and a campus tour. The information session covers the admission process and financial aid and features an authentic panel discussion with current students. Please note: Registrants and their guest must provide proof of vaccination against COVID-19 upon arrival to campus. Negative PCR test results will not be accepted. Advance registration is required. We will not be able to accommodate walk-in visitors. If you cannot find a time that is available, please note that we have a self-guided audio tour that can be taken at any time. Please review our visitor policies and guidelines in advance of scheduling your visit to campus. If you are a community-based organization leader scheduling a visit for ten or more students in their sophomore, junior, or senior year of high school, please register your group for a visit here. Spring 2022 campus visits will be offered on weekdays beginning Monday, February 14, through Friday, April 29. Please note that no sessions will be offered on the following dates: March 7 - 11 April 14 - 15 April 18 Summer 2022 campus visits will be offered on weekdays beginning Wednesday, June 15, through Friday, August 19. Please note that no sessions will be offered on the following dates: June 20 July 4 To display and register for an Eagle Eye Campus Visit, click on an available date from the calendar below, then select an event from the list: Legend: Available Unavailable / Filled Not Scheduled Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3100 Academic Calendar Agora Portal Athletics Apply Visit Give Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Google Plus Accessibility Emergency Maps Directories Contact Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College