Skip to main content Welcome! Because our site has been optimized for modern browsers, Internet Explorer will not display it correctly. Please consider using a different browser, such as Chrome, Firefox, Edge, or Safari, instead. Thank you! No, that's okay. I want to use Internet Explorer anyway. Information and updates about the Fall 2022 application and review process and COVID vaccination requirement. Academics Educational Opportunities Majors Co-Ops Guaranteed Admissions Programs Internships Pitt Honors Undergraduate Research Global Experiences College Life Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Pittsburgh Titusville Student Life Culture Stories Student Affairs Outcomes Athletics Admissions Admissions Info First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Military/Veterans Graduate Students Guest Students Counselors Families Undergraduate Application Apply for Admission Application Tips Personal Statement Costs Tuition & Fees Commit to Pitt Commit to Pitt Visit Explore Pitt Pittsburgh—Visits Pittsburgh—Graduate Visits Bradford—Visits Greensburg—Visits Johnstown—Visits Request Info More Info U.S. Citizens International Students Graduate School Connect With Us Reps in Your Area Admissions Counselors Graduate Contacts Regional Campus Contacts FAQs Contact Us Financial Aid Search Academics Educational Opportunities Majors Co-Ops Guaranteed Admissions Programs Internships Pitt Honors Undergraduate Research Global Experiences College Life Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Pittsburgh Titusville Student Life Culture Stories Student Affairs Outcomes Athletics Admissions Admissions Info First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Military/Veterans Graduate Students Guest Students Counselors Families Undergraduate Application Apply for Admission Application Tips Personal Statement Costs Tuition & Fees Commit to Pitt Commit to Pitt Visit Explore Pitt Pittsburgh—Visits Pittsburgh—Graduate Visits Bradford—Visits Greensburg—Visits Johnstown—Visits Request Info More Info U.S. Citizens International Students Graduate School Connect With Us Reps in Your Area Admissions Counselors Graduate Contacts Regional Campus Contacts FAQs Contact Us Financial Aid Pitt College Visits Schedule a Tour Today At Pitt, you’ll find countless opportunities to do college your way, starting with your official campus visit. We have a variety of in-person and virtual program options to answer your questions and help you discover why Pitt could be a good fit for you. No matter which university program type you choose, you’ll have the opportunity to experience what it feels like to be a Pitt Panther as a new student. If you are planning a college visit in person, please review Pitt’s Health Rules before you travel. Experience Pitt's Campus Pitt AR Experience With the Pitt AR Experience, you can explore the University of Pittsburgh and the cool, unique city that Pitt calls home. Explore Campus Take a 360-degree virtual guided tour of the Pittsburgh campus. Pitt Reps in Your Area Connect with us virtually at an upcoming virtual college fair. Hear from Pitt Students Students from all over the world choose Pitt. Watch our My Pitt Experience videos to hear why. Daily Visit Options View All Virtual Admissions Presentation An Enrollment Services Manager will share general information about the University of Pittsburgh about academic programs, Pitt admissions criteria, the admissions process, outside the classroom activities, as well as answer your questions about Pitt. Transfer Virtual Presentation This session is for students interested in transferring to Pitt from other institutions. An Enrollment Services Manager will share general information about the University of Pittsburgh about academic programs, admissions criteria, the admissions process, outside the classroom activities, as well as answer your questions about Pitt. Virtual Campus Tour Join us for a “walking tour” through the heart of campus with Pitt Pathfinders (currently enrolled students). Your Pathfinder will host a live zoom meeting and take you around campus via our virtual 360 tour. Please feel free to ask questions during the tour! Program Specific Sessions - Learn about the first-year entry school of your interest! Dietrich School of Arts & Sciences School of Computing and Information College of Business Administration Swanson School of Engineering School of Nursing Upper-Division Majors School of Pharmacy School of Education School of Health and Rehabilitation Science Pitt Honors Information Session Learn about the Honors College application process, honors courses, scholarship mentoring, research fellowships, honors housing, the Honors Joint Degree, as well as other unique academic opportunities. Q&A with Current Pitt Students If you are a prospective student and have questions about Pitt, please join us in a live session with current Pitt students to ask about academics and student life. Throughout the day, text us any questions to the number where you received this registration link! We can’t wait to hear from you! Transfer Drop-in Meetings Drop into a session to chat with a Transfer Admissions Counselor! Residence Hall Tour Join us for a virtual tour of our residence halls with Pitt Pathfinders (currently enrolled students). The Pathfinder will be hosting a live zoom meeting and taking you on a virtual 360 tour. Please feel free to ask questions during the tour! What's Next? Apply Request Info Contact Us Title IX Campus Safety Consumer Information Privacy Policy Financial Aid Follow Us Back to top The provisions of this website are subject to change at any time at the University’s sole discretion. This website is intended to serve only as a general source of information about the University and is no way intended to state contractual terms. Visit Apply Commit We use cookies to help our site work, understand how it’s used, and to deliver targeted information to existing and prospective customers. By accepting this message, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device. For more information on the cookies we use, please see our Privacy Policy. If you decline, you won’t be tracked when you visit this website, apart from the necessary cookie required to remember your preference. Accept