Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Test Optional Frequently asked questions about the test optional policy What is Brown's testing policy for the 2022-2023 admission cycle? Brown has extended our test optional policy for all first-year, transfer and Resumed Undergraduate Education applicants in the 2022-2023 admission cycle. Students who do not submit SAT or ACT scores should be assured that they will not be disadvantaged in our admission process. While standardized testing has long been a component of our holistic admission process and can be informative, it has always been only one part of a much larger and more important story about an individual applicant. We remain committed to a thoughtful and thorough holistic review process. Should I take a standardized test if the option is available to me? We hope applicants will have the opportunity to take the SAT or ACT and submit test scores as part of the admission process this year should they choose to do so. However, we recognize that many of our applicants will not be able to take a standardized test or submit scores due to COVID-19. Please know that your application will not be disadvantaged in our admission process if you do not submit standardized test scores. All applicants will receive full and holistic consideration by our admission committee. If I took a standardized test but am not happy with my score, should I still submit it? If you submit a standardized test score as a part of your application, we will consider it as one among many factors in our holistic review process. We will also bear in mind that many students may not have had the opportunity to take the SAT or ACT more than once. If you are not happy with your standardized test score, the choice of whether to submit that score is completely yours; your application will be considered complete and contextually evaluated whether or not you submit scores. Please note that there are no minimum or cutoff scores required to be considered for Brown; there is no formula for admission. When submitted, test scores will continue to be evaluated in the context of all the other information we have about a candidate, and as challenging circumstances continue, we will continue to review test scores with great empathy and understanding. As it always has, our review process focuses on achievement in context and potential for success, rather than perfection. If I want to include test scores as a part of my application, when is the deadline to submit my scores? Since Brown is test optional for all applicants in the 2022-2023 admission cycle, test scores are not a required component of the first-year application this year. If you would like to include test scores for review in your application and are applying Early Decision, testing must be completed by the last October test date to ensure receipt of scores. If you are applying Regular Decision, testing must be completed by the last December test date to ensure receipt of scores. If I do not submit a standardized test score, do I need to provide an explanation? Though you are welcome to share disrupted testing plans with us if you choose, we will neither require nor expect any explanation of missing scores. We are aware that testing opportunities have been significantly impacted by the global pandemic. For students who are unable to submit scores, we will look to other components of the application to assess academic preparation. Will there be a chance for me to share the impact COVID-19 has had on my life? In the Additional Information section of the Common Application, you will have the opportunity to share how you may have been affected by the pandemic and any other challenging events. This is a completely optional question, and any information you share will be used to help us better understand the context surrounding your experiences this year. The question reads as follows: “Community disruptions such as COVID-19 and natural disasters can have deep and long-lasting impacts. If you need it, this space is yours to describe those impacts. Colleges care about the effects on your health and well-being, safety, family circumstances, future plans, and education, including access to reliable technology and quiet study spaces. For more information, check out our COVID-19 FAQ. Please use this space to describe how these events have impacted you." Will Brown be test optional for admission cycles after 2022-2023? As with every aspect of the admission process, our test optional policy will be evaluated again before the 2023-2024 application cycle begins. As we continue to examine the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on academic outcomes, both at the high school and college level, continued research and assessment is needed and will guide policy decisions in the coming years. We anticipate that the data we gather this year will help to provide clarity on these outcomes and inform our longer term testing policies. Does the test optional policy apply to international students? Given the continued impact of COVID-19 around the world, Brown is test optional for both domestic and international first-year applicants this year. For international applicants, we continue to highly recommend the TOEFL if students are able to access these exams. We will also accept the Duolingo as a means of demonstrating English proficiency. Does the test optional policy apply to transfer applicants? Brown is test optional for transfer applicants through the 2022-2023 admission cycle, meaning that test scores are not a required component of the transfer application this year. If you would like to include test scores for review in your application, testing must be completed by February to ensure receipt of scores. You may use your Brown Applicant Portal to self-report test scores that were not included on your Common Application. More information on our standardized testing policies can be found on our website. Does the test optional policy apply to recruited athletes? Brown will continue to adhere to Ivy League policies regarding testing requirements for applicants who plan to participate in varsity athletics. Student-athletes with questions about these requirements should contact the Department of Athletics. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Test Optional Open details for Test Optional Bookmark this Page