Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Luke Grayson Class of 2025 back Click to Close Bio Welcome to the blog of an Englishman studying at Dartmouth—do take a look around! Hopefully, my blogs will provide you with an insight on life at Dartmouth, and specifically through the eyes of an international student. Dartmouth has a tonne to offer from the staggering natural beauty of its surroundings and stellar academic programs to the wonderful people you meet along the way. So stay a while, I'll make us cups of tea, and take a moment to discover life at the college on the hill. Academic Program Undecided Favorite Thing Right Now Hiking! Especially at sunrise! Hometown Seaham, England Pronouns he/him About Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Why Dartmouth? « All Posts by this Blogger Why Dartmouth? Why Dartmouth? With a max word count of 100 and asked in a much more convoluted Daniel Webster related fashion, my cursor blinked mockingly at me. At the time I saw this question as a challenge, a hurdle poised to test my true knowledge and attachment to the idea of attending Dartmouth College; 'how many aspects of Dartmouth can I possibly fit into 100 words?' I already knew I desperately wanted to attend Dartmouth, and I knew why - I wanted the small tight-knit community, the beautiful campus, the amazing study-abroad options, and most importantly, the vibe that campus radiated to me. Alas, the words to fill that box evaded me. The infamous question... Now I am here (an amazing fact I still wrestle with the reality of every day), I often think back to answering that question. How different would it be if I was answering it to a high school student asking me why THEY should come to Dartmouth? Would I write it in the same way, about the same things? Would I be able to articulate so many feelings in 100 words? I honestly don't think I could really even truly put my thoughts and feelings into words at all. I could manufacture some crude imposter of my experiences here, but they would be simplified down to fit our current methods of verbal and written communication. I think if I was to answer that question now, I'd want to write about a lot of things. I'd write about how this place is basically one big family in the woods (and we love it), about how we go swim in the river in the summer, hike 53.5 miles without sleep, throw axes and chop wood, learn convoluted traditional Dartmouth dances, watch a silent film in a ski lodge, build a huge bonfire and run around it, wear fancy clothes and carry candles deep into the woods towards choral singing; I'd write about how even if the food isn't as good one day, we still go to enjoy dinner together; how classes are extremely hard, but you have full agency over your degree; about how yeah, sometimes being hours away from a major city feels isolated, but actually it makes our community the strongest there is. At Dartmouth, we advertise a profound sense of place, the unrivaled opportunities you get, the chances to study abroad, but for me the true value here lies far deeper in the soul of our college: our personality. We truly are a college of people, and every day when I walk outside to go to Foco (The Class of '53 Commons dining hall) or to class, I see a sea of familiar faces and fend off 'hi's and 'hey wassup's' from all angles. When I was sick in the third or so week, my floormates and friends from other dorms lined up to deliver me medication and even meals from Foco. I feel here as if I found home. A home with a plethora of opportunities to intern, study abroad, go hike and chop wood, and learn from some of the world's most distinguished faculty. TIMBER!! To any high school students considering Dartmouth, I hope you read this and it gives you an insight to how life is here. To any students that have decided already to apply and were hoping this blog post (due to the name) would help them with their 'Why Dartmouth' essay? You are sadly mistaken because as you can see I VERY much cannot condense my thoughts into 100 words (c'mon, we weren't going to make it THAT easy for you)! Click to show post info Post Information Posted 12/11/2021 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Admissions; committing; prospective student college essays Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Posts You Might Like Visit the Blog A Letter to Freshman Year With freshman year coming to a close, I wrote a Thank You note to one of the best years! Read More Caroline York 2025 Goodbye, 22S Happy last week of classes! Here are some of my reflections from my junior spring. Read More Love Tsai 2023 Greenkey: dancing in a field to internationally famous mucisians in Hanover! Dartmouth has too many traditions to name, but Greenkey is one of the best ones! Read on to find out about my experience this year! Read More Luke Grayson 2025 Freshman Year: A Retrospective A look back at my first year at Dartmouth! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 Taking my Professor to Lunch! Here's a reflection on my experience taking my computer science professor out for a free meal paid for by the school! Read More Jack Heaphy 2024 Work Hard, Play Hard: A Green Key Weekend at Dartmouth! After two years, Dartmouth's annual spring festival, known affectionately as Green Key, occurred this weekend! The weekend held many events, but even so, I saw the Dartmouth culture of work hard, play hard. Read More Tulio Huggins 2023 Alumni Interview I sat down with my friend, Ali '20, who conducts interviews, to gain some insight into what students should expect for the interviews. Read More Caroline York 2025 Saint Motel Meets Hanover: Green Key 2022! As the 23s, 24s, and 25s shared our first Green Key together, Dartmouth ended up bringing my middle-school self's favorite band to campus: here's how my Green Key went! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Green Key!!!!!! It's a Dartmouth tradition to celebrate Green Key every spring. What exactly is Green Key you ask? In short, it is one of the best weekends ever. Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback