Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us Academics How to Apply Tuition & Aid Student Life Connect About Us Search Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply University of Miami Undergraduate Admission About Us AAA Our Story The University of Miami is a private research university with more than 10,000+ full-time, degree-seeking undergraduates and 6,000 full-time, degree-seeking graduates from around the world. Here, students study what they love, collaborate across disciplines, and tackle real-world challenges. Our vibrant community is made up of students and scholars from all over the world that challenge each other to push beyond their limits and achieve more. Class Profile 11 Schools & Colleges 12:1 Student-to-faculty ratio 92% First-year to sophomore retention rate 300+ Clubs & Organizations 150,000+ Service hours completed by UM students each year 100+ Networking/recruiting events held by Toppel Career Center each year Frequently Asked Questions Admission counselors are there to answer your questions before, during, and after the admission process. For quick reference, we compiled frequently asked questions about applying for admission. FAQs Connect With Us The University of Miami is a close-knit community united by a powerful school spirit known as "Hurricane Pride." To learn more about us, contact an admission counselor and subscribe to our mailing list, so you can stay informed and get all the latest information about UM sent directly to you. REQUEST MORE INFORMATION FIND YOUR ADMISSION COUNSELOR Our Location The University of Miami is located in the heart of a metropolitan city at the crossroads of the Americas. Admission Blog Posts on the admission process, academics, the city of Miami, and what it's like to be a 'Cane. Información en Español Obtenga más información sobre una de las mejores Universidades privadas de investigación en los Estados Unidos. Why UM Was Their First Choice Ashley Bartolo, Class of 2022 “I applied early because I knew UM had everything I wanted in a school. Strong academics, Division I sports, and a beautiful campus. I mean, it looks like an amazing school on paper and then you show up and it exceeds your expectations.” Jacob Esquival, Class of 2023 “I decided to apply Early Decision because of the University of Miami's location, which I felt would give me access to everything I needed. On top of that, the marine biology program is one of the best in the country!” Kylea Stamps, Class of 2023 “I knew I would have the opportunity to get involved in all the technology being developed at UM. The career center was also a big draw for me, to find internships, create connections, and learn how to network.” Joseph Thomas, Class of 2023 “I spoke to people at UM and their warmth and hospitality was contagious. I also liked how easy it was to add an extra major or minor.” Andrea Martinez, Class of 2024 “I wanted a program that focused on modern and historic architecture. It was hard to find a program that had both so when I found UM had a pretty perfect balance between the two, I knew that was the environment I wanted to be in.” William Turton, Class of 2023 “I really liked UM's academics and the balance of the amazing student life. Everyone has so much Miami pride - it's really cool to be in this kind of community.” Ben Reese, Class of 2023 “I always loved sports, but never wanted to be a professional athlete. As I researched colleges, I found UM's Sports Administration program. I chose The U because it has a great academic program and great sports teams.” University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Undergraduate Admission 1306 Stanford Drive, Suite 1210 Coral Gables, FL 33146 TEL: 305-284-6000 TEL: 305-284-6000 FAX: 305-284-2507 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search myUM Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram tiktok Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback