Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Application Checklist Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies COVID-19 Update We understand the many hurdles students, families, counselors and school administrators have had to overcome due to changes within school communities and the unprecedented challenges presented by COVID-19. With the disruption to coursework and the lack of access to the ACT and SAT, Princeton has made a few changes to the 2022-23 application cycle to ease the process of applying. A Continued Pause on Standardized Testing for the 2022-23 Application Cycle The Princeton University Office of Undergraduate Admission continues to assess the effects the pandemic has had on teaching and learning in secondary schools around the world – particularly the inconsistencies created in classrooms due to the uncertainty of in-person instruction. As a result, we will continue to operate in a test optional environment for first-year applicants applying during the 2022-23 cycle for Princeton’s Class of 2027. Students who opt to apply to Princeton without an ACT or SAT will not be at a disadvantage in our process. We will continue with a holistic evaluation of each application and will continue to assess testing requirements for students applying after next year’s cycle. The process for transfer applicants will also be test optional during the 2022-23 cycle and will be reassessed for those applying after next year’s cycle. Please note: Princeton will continue to follow the guidance and policies of the Ivy League regarding testing requirements for applicants who expect to participate in the varsity athletic program. Students who do sit for a standardized test and wish to submit their score will still have the option to do so. As with previous years, the University does not require subject tests. English Language Proficiency Exams If English is not the primary language spoken in your home and you attend a school where English is not the language of instruction, you must take the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), the International English Language Testing System Academic (IELTS Academic) or the Pearson Test of English Academic (PTE Academic). More information > Transfer Admission This standardized testing policy change for 2022-23 application cycles extends to transfer applicants. Transfer applicants will continue to have an application deadline of early March. Financial Aid Princeton provides financial aid in the form of grants, which do not have to be repaid. Our no-loans policy makes it possible for students to graduate with little to no debt. More than 80% of recent seniors have graduated debt free. This spring, the trustees of Princeton University reconfirmed the University’s commitment to ensuring that a Princeton education is affordable for every student even at this time of economic uncertainty. Campus Visit Prospective students are welcome to visit campus and enjoy our outdoor facilities; however, per University policy, visitors will not have access to buildings on campus. We encourage you to take advantage of our self-guided campus tour via your smartphone, sign up for a guided Orange Key Tour or register for a virtual information session. Updated Feb. 10, 2022; 11 a.m. Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746