Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Visiting Student Program Each year, Brown welcomes visiting students from partner institutions both in the United States and abroad. In addition, a limited number of students enrolled as full-time degree candidates at other colleges may apply to spend one or two semesters at Brown to pursue areas of study not otherwise available to them. Visiting Student Program Each year, Brown welcomes visiting students from partner institutions both in the United States and abroad. In addition, a limited number of students enrolled as full-time degree candidates at other colleges may apply to spend one or two semesters at Brown to pursue areas of study not otherwise available to them. Visiting Undergraduate Student Program Each year, Brown welcomes visiting students from partner institutions both in the United States and abroad. In addition, a limited number of students enrolled as full-time degree candidates at other colleges may apply to spend one or two semesters at Brown to pursue areas of study not otherwise available to them. The Visiting Undergraduate Student Program welcomes applicants who wish to enroll in undergraduate-level academic work during the fall or spring semesters, or during the Summer Session. Most Visiting Undergraduate Students hold full-time status during their time on Brown’s campus. This program is not intended for high school graduates who wish to spend a gap year or gap semester at Brown, nor is it intended for students who have already earned a bachelor’s degree. Who May Apply: Current undergraduate students enrolled in a full-time degree-granting program may apply for full-time or part-time study. International students must apply for full-time study, in accordance with United States immigration laws. Students from Exchange Partner Institutions should consult with their program administrator prior to completing the application. Exchange Partners for 2021-2022: Chinese University of Hong Kong Humboldt Universität, Germany Keio University, Japan Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden Tougaloo College, Mississippi, US Current undergraduate students meeting the criteria above are eligible for fall, spring, and summer term enrollment. Students who do not meet the criteria outlined above may be eligible to enroll as special students (please see below), or as visitors through the University’s Guest Student Program, which also has a visiting student program intended for secondary school students and for college graduates. More information on Summer Session 2022 is now available, including the Online Business Bootcamp course to be offered in partnership with Hult International Business School. The application deadline for this program is April 15, 2022. Please direct questions to guest_student@brown.edu. Please note that students applying to transfer to Brown may not apply simultaneously to both the transfer program and the visiting undergraduate student program. Admission In selecting visiting students, we are particularly interested in your motivation for seeking visiting student status. You should demonstrate a strong record in all college work to date and must be able to present a specific academic reason for studying at Brown. You should be familiar with the offerings of the University and must indicate on your application the specific courses of study in which you would like to enroll. Your decision to apply to Brown as a visiting student should be made only after you have thoroughly examined your academic and personal needs and Brown’s ability to meet them. Please note that enrollment as a Visiting Undergraduate Student is approved on a semester-by-semester basis. Admission may be extended for a maximum of two semesters. This program is not intended for students who are planning to apply to transfer to Brown as degree candidates. Application Deadlines and Important Dates Semester I - September enrollment: Application Deadline: May 1 Notification: As soon as possible after May 15 Semester II - January enrollment: Application Deadline: October 15 Notification: As soon as possible after November 1 Summer Semester - June/July enrollment: Application Deadline: Rolling, beginning April 15 Notification: As soon as possible after receipt of application Students who are admitted to the Visiting Undergraduate Student Program may not defer their admission, but are welcome to re-apply in the semester preceding the preferred date of entry. Financial Aid There is no financial assistance available from the University for visiting students, except for those in Exchange Partner programs with special financial arrangements. Access to Facilities Visiting students will have access to all Brown University facilities, including libraries, athletic facilities, and special lectures. Tuition, Fees and Housing Please consult the Bursar’s website for information on tuition and required fees. Full-time visiting students are expected to live in on-campus housing. Part-time visiting students will be charged tuition by the course. Housing is not guaranteed. Registration Please note that enrollment in some courses may require the permission of the instructor. The Application Process Step 1 Complete the online application. This will include biographical information, academic records, letters of recommendation, and an essay. Please ask representatives from your institution to submit the following material via email to documents@brown.edu: Official transcripts for all secondary school work, as well as for all completed college courses and all courses currently in progress. Score reports for any College Board tests you have taken. International applicants are also required to submit TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo test results. These may be submitted by your institution or by the testing agency. Step 2 Request that a letter from an academic dean at your college be sent to the Office of College Admission stating the institution’s approval of your intentions as an applicant for visiting student status. This letter should also specify any special course selection necessary to meet the requirements of your college. The Dean's letter or any official documents should be sent directly by a school official by email attachment to documents@brown.edu. Step 3 Request letters of recommendation from two of your current or former college instructors. Recommendations should be written on the instructor’s or the college’s letterhead and submitted through the link located in the application portal. If you have declared a concentration (major), one of these letters should be from your faculty adviser. For help with technical difficulties, answers to other questions, or for more information, please contact your exchange program administrator or the Brown Admission Office at admission@brown.edu. SPECIAL STUDENTS If you have graduated from secondary school and have not yet graduated from college/university, but are not currently enrolled in college, you may be eligible to apply as a special student. Please contact the Office of College Admission to discuss your eligibility to enroll as a special student before completing the Visiting Undergraduate Student Program application. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Visiting Student Program Open details for Visiting Student Program Bookmark this Page