Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Brandon Mioduszewski Class of 2025 back Click to Close Bio What's up! My name is Brandon and I'm a '25 from a small town on the outskirts of Chicago. I am driven by intercultural communication; I am passionate about Middle Eastern culture, politics, history, and languages, and a career as a researcher is on my mind. I love vexillology (the study of flags!), anti-pop, spicy foods, streetwear, and the color yellow. Please enjoy these snapshots of my life in Hanover! Academic Program Middle Eastern Studies Favorite Thing Right Now Grape powerade Hometown Franklin Park, Illinois Pronouns he/him About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Freshman Year: A Retrospective back Click to Close Brandon's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallHanover, New Hampshire Favorite Class: MES 012: Politics of Israel and Palestine This was definitely my favorite class of fall term—the readings were heavy, but they all felt incredibly relevant to the coursework. For each class, we read both Jewish and Arab perspectives throughout history. Moreover, Professor Avishai has a vast network of connections with important members of Israeli government, and even figures who we read about in the history books (including former prime ministers!). Overall, that class was a lot of work but very effective in helping me understand the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. WinterHanover, New Hampshire Favorite Class: MES 1: Intro to Middle Eastern Studies Professor Smolin's lectures were always something for me to look forward to. In this intro class, a wide variety of subjects regarding the Arab world were covered. Topics such as culture, Islam, literature, poetry, politics, and history were covered from the pre-Islamic period to the more recent Arab Spring. The readings were fascinating, and the professor also incorporated a wide variety of video resources to accompany the readings. I loved this class! « All Posts by this Blogger Freshman Year: A Retrospective In one week, I will have completed my freshman year at Dartmouth. Typing that out seems crazy, because it feels like I just arrived for the FYSEP summer program yesterday! In this post, I will share the growth I've experienced both academically and personally. I came to Dartmouth intending to major in government. However, I was attracted by the option to study Arabic, and my vague interest in the Middle East inspired me to take additional classes on Islam and the Israel-Palestine conflict. During the fall term, I fell in love with my MES coursework, and spent lots of my freetime reading and learning more about the region. In the winter, I enrolled for Government 4, steering myself into the direction of the major I applied to Dartmouth with. However, while sitting in lecture and doing work for the class, I couldn't help but wish I was studying the Middle East instead. I'm not sure where this interest in the culture, politics, history, and language of the region came from, but it has defined my academic career ever since. Sitting in that Government 4 class, I knew it wasn't the right place for me. But I was nervous; what could I do with a Middle Eastern Studies degree? The more I thought about it, the more my mind kept going back to the MES course list on the timetable. So, I dropped the government class and took an Arab feminism class to supplement my Intro to MES class and Arabic. And as I learned more about myself and what I wanted from my life, I realized that continuing my study of the Middle East at Dartmouth, abroad, and in graduate school was what I wanted for my future. I eagerly picked up a creative project called Middle Eastern Voices at Dartmouth, which you're familiar with if you follow the blog. This year, I am going to Morocco, Israel, and Kuwait through Dartmouth, all because I took a risk and studied what I truly wanted to. Dartmouth's huge library of books lets me explore Middle Eastern poetry, literature, and history outside of class! At this point in my Dartmouth career, all but one of the 10 courses I've taken have been for Middle Eastern Studies. While it would be a good idea to get some distributive requirements out of the way, I'm so glad I have been able to immerse myself in this field; for this reason, I am choosing not to pursue any double major or minor. I can't imagine myself attaining more intellectual, creative, and personal growth through taking any other courses, and I'm incredibly excited to begin my travel, research, and work in the region. If I've learned anything from my freshman year, it's that I should spend my time doing something I love. While it can be exhausting to be up until 2 am working on papers late in the term, the fulfillment and enjoyment I get from studying the Middle East is unmatched – and I'm incredibly excited to see where this passion takes me. Good bye, or in other words, !مع السلامة Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/29/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts middle eastern studies; dartmouth; freshman year Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Posts You Might Like Visit the Blog A Letter to Freshman Year With freshman year coming to a close, I wrote a Thank You note to one of the best years! Read More Caroline York 2025 Goodbye, 22S Happy last week of classes! Here are some of my reflections from my junior spring. Read More Love Tsai 2023 Greenkey: dancing in a field to internationally famous mucisians in Hanover! Dartmouth has too many traditions to name, but Greenkey is one of the best ones! Read on to find out about my experience this year! Read More Luke Grayson 2025 Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Taking my Professor to Lunch! Here's a reflection on my experience taking my computer science professor out for a free meal paid for by the school! Read More Jack Heaphy 2024 Saint Motel Meets Hanover: Green Key 2022! As the 23s, 24s, and 25s shared our first Green Key together, Dartmouth ended up bringing my middle-school self's favorite band to campus: here's how my Green Key went! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Alumni Interview I sat down with my friend, Ali '20, who conducts interviews, to gain some insight into what students should expect for the interviews. Read More Caroline York 2025 Art Classes at Dartmouth Here are the courses my friends and I have taken to fulfill the distributive requirement for art. Read More Eda Naz Gokdemir 2025 '22 Spring: Week 8 Reflections Here are some reflections and thoughts I had undergoing my last term of freshman year! Read More Daniel Kang 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback