Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Admissions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Explore Select to follow link Academics Student Life Success Afford Select to follow link Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Costs Visit Select to follow link Special Events Group Visits Schools & Spaces Plan Select to follow link College Prep Curriculum Apply Select to follow link Major-Specific Requirements High School Equivalency Exams Need-Based and Military Fee Waivers Credit Transfer Select to follow link Appealing Credit Decisions Credit and Exemption for High School Work Community College Guides Transfer and KU Core Codes Update Your Application Enroll Select to follow link Freshman Enrollment Select to follow link Freshman Enrollment Deposit Transfer Enrollment Info for Transfers Students of color Military affiliated students High-achieving students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Admissions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search The University of Kansas We’re an innovative research institution, a school rich with tradition, and a home to students who, as alumni, go on to lead their professions. Explore KU Get started Ready to apply? We don’t require SAT or ACT scores for general admission or merit-based aid, and you’ll self-report GPA and submit final transcripts after you’ve been admitted. Provide your test scores if you have them. If you want more information, join our mailing list or contact your admissions rep. Apply Apply Request info Request info Find your rep Find your rep Fall application deadlines Nov. 1 Freshman early action application deadline Feb. 1 FAFSA Priority Date March 1 Extended freshman scholarship deadline May 1 Transfer scholarship deadline Consideration for our merit-based aid no longer requires an SAT or ACT score In 2019, KU awarded over $60 million in institutional scholarships. Along with other forms of aid and family savings, scholarships can serve as a key to affording your degree — an important investment in yourself. Freshman Scholarships Meet our community Our admissions team can introduce you to KU’s environment of possibility, with both online information sessions and in-person visits available. See the schedule See the schedule Make a plan You might be early in your high-school career or in the middle of a degree path at another institution — but if you’ve set KU as the next destination, you can take steps right now. Important steps for all students No matter where you are in your college search, you can inform and prepare yourself. Learn More Steps for juniors During this crucial time, set yourself up for success and scholarships. Learn More Steps for seniors and transfer students Key deadlines and exciting decisions are right around the corner. Learn More Swipe to see more Say yes to KU If you’ve been accepted to KU, you have a short list of things to do before your first day of classes. We’re here to help you make the transition successfully. Freshmen next steps Transfer next steps Get specific Your interests, experiences, and goals are what make you a great addition to the Jayhawk community. Find information that addresses the KU admission experience based on your background. International students Graduate students Transfer students Students of color Military affiliated High ability students KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 adm@ku.edu 785-864-3911 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Staff Admissions Reps Graduate admissions International admissions Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.