Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home First-Year How to Apply First-Year Toggle navigation First-Year Menu Admissions How to Apply Deadlines & Fees What We're Looking For Decisions Cost & Aid Scholarships Academics Accelerated Credit Gap Year Info for Parents Info for Counselors SSAR How to Apply Complete ONE of the applications below. Florida State does not have an application preference. Apply through the Common App Apply through the FSU Application Students should apply for the term they wish to enroll in at the University. Students are not automatically considered for the summer term if not eligible for the fall term. To apply for the University Honors Program, students should select Yes to the question "Are you interested in applying to the University Honors Program?" on the admissions application. By selecting Yes, a separate Honors supplemental application will appear on the Application Status Check. For detailed instructions on how to complete your supplemental Honors Application, visit the Honors website. To be considered for the University Honors Program, you must complete the Honors Application by December 1, 2022. If you plan to major in dance, film (animation or production), music, studio art, or theatre, contact the academic department directly for specific major requirements. Important Dates August 1, 2022 Admission Applications Open October 1, 2022 Apply for Financial Aid by completing the FAFSA October 15, 2022 Early Action Deadline *Florida Residents Only December 1, 2022 Regular Decision Deadline December 1, 2022 Honors Application Deadline December 15, 2022 Early Action Decisions Release February 15, 2023 Regular Decisions Release February 15, 2023 Honors Decisions Release March 1, 2023 Rolling Application Deadline Beginning in Early April Rolling Decisions Release Ready to Apply? Apply online using our institutional application or the Common App. Students should only submit one application. Create your Self-reported Student Academic Record (SSAR), using your official high school transcript as a guide. To learn more about the SSAR, view our FAQ and watch our how-to videos. Complete the following items on the Application Status Check by the application deadline: a. Self-report all ACT and/or SAT scores. b. Link your SSAR by copying the 32-character code from your SSAR account. c. Choose one essay question and upload your essay. d. Upload one resume/list of activities. Complete the Residency Declaration form. Track Your Application Status We use email as our official method of communication. Students should regularly monitor their Application Status Check to confirm the status of their application, required materials, missing items, and admission decision. Please ensure that we always have your most up-to-date email address, and include admissions@fsu.edu in your address book. ACT/SAT Information Requiring an ACT or SAT test score for admissions consideration is not an institutional choice. FSU, along with Florida's 11 other public universities, is subject to Florida Board of Governors admissions regulation 6.002 which requires first-year students seeking admission to submit an ACT or SAT test score. We require all first-year applicants to submit at least one ACT and/or SAT test score. Florida State does not require the optional ACT writing score or the optional SAT essay. FSU allows students to self-report their SAT and/or ACT scores through the Application Status Page. Since accuracy is critical, students must have a copy of their SAT/ACT score report(s) available to reference when self-reporting their scores. We recommend using your complete score report which can be found on your MyACT or CollegeBoard account. To complete this form, you must list at least one set of test scores, including all subscores. To reference your SAT subscores, please visit your CollegeBoard account and select Score Overview then Skills Insight. If admitted, student will be required to submit official score reports prior to enrollment at FSU. At least one test score must be submitted before the application deadline, but additional tests may be considered if provided by these dates: Decision Cohort Application & Materials Deadline Last Scores Considered Early Action *Florida Students Only October 15, 2022 November SAT (if scores are provided before December 1, 2022) Regular Decision December 1, 2022 December ACT and SAT (if scores are provided before January 1, 2023) Rolling Decision March 1, 2023 Released on a rolling basis in early April Frequently Asked Questions Are there additional costs associated with submitting the Common App? Florida State University's first-year application fee is $30. The Common App carries an additional $5 processing fee. If a student qualifies for a CollegeBoard, ACT, or NACAC fee waiver, the entire amount, including the processing fee, is waived. What is the next step after submitting the Common App? Please allow up to two business days to receive an email confirmation from Florida State University. That message will contain instructions about how to access the Application Status Check. What sections does FSU require from the Common App? FSU requires the Profile, Family, Education (excluding Grades and Current / Most Recent Year Courses), Writing, Institution-Specific Questions, and Recommenders & FERPA sections of the Common App. Does FSU require letters of recommendation? Letters of recommendation are not required and will not be used in the decision-making process. Quick Links Seminole Tribe Land Acknowledgement College & Career Planning Tool Career Center Academic Program Guide FSU Highlights Apply Online Visit Us Publications Check Your Application Status Application Changes Form Residency Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Aspire TCC2FSU Program FSU-Panama City Campus The Graduate School Student Veterans Center Office of Accessibility Services Professional Licensure Transfer Student Services Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University.