Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home First-Year Credit First-Year Toggle navigation First-Year Menu Admissions How to Apply Deadlines & Fees What We're Looking For Decisions Cost & Aid Scholarships Academics Accelerated Credit AICE AP IB CLEP Gap Year Info for Parents Info for Counselors SSAR Accelerated Credit Up to 45 semester hours of credit can be awarded by taking AICE, AP, IB, or CLEP tests and achieving appropriate scores.* To receive credit, official test scores must be sent directly to the Office of Admissions. Credit will be awarded only once for the same subject, whether from credit by examination, dual enrollment, transfer credit, or FSU course credit. Credit awarded for dual enrollment or transfer courses takes precedence over credit by examination. Students enrolled in college coursework prior to graduation from high school (dual enrollment) may be awarded college credit. An official college transcript will be required for the posting of credit. We will not post college credit from a high school transcript. College Credit for Courses Taken Through Dual-Enrollment College courses taken through dual-enrollment will permanently be a part of your college transcript(s) regardless of the grade earned. An official college transcript must be sent to the Office of Admissions before you enroll. Any grades below C is subject to the offer of admission being rescinded. Transfer credit will be awarded for academic (non-technical/non-vocational/non-remedial) courses. If a student attempts a college course and also earns test credit through AP, AICE, CLEP, or IB, the test credit will not be added to the student's academic record. The Office of Undergraduate Studies will evaluate transfer credit to determine how it may fulfill FSU Liberal Studies requirements. Students may learn more about FSU's Liberal Studies requirements and search the Liberal Studies course database here. Earning the Florida Associate in Arts (AA) Degree will automatically satisfy liberal studies requirements. High School Students Earning an AA Degree Students who earned an AA degree while in high school must submit a final official transcript from their AA degree-granting institution showing that the AA degree was earned. A final official transcript will show both that the AA degree was earned and the date the degree was earned. Staff in the Graduation Planning and Strategies (GPS) Office are always excited to connect with high school AA students to answer any questions and brainstorm how to make the most of their time at FSU. Students can learn more about how having the high school AA degree makes their degree requirements unique and the opportunities available to them here. AICE AP IB CLEP * Subject to change. Legislation calls for an annual review to determine the appropriate examination scores and courses for which credit is to be granted. Quick Links Seminole Tribe Land Acknowledgement College & Career Planning Tool Career Center Academic Program Guide FSU Highlights Apply Online Visit Us Publications Check Your Application Status Application Changes Form Residency Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Aspire TCC2FSU Program FSU-Panama City Campus The Graduate School Student Veterans Center Office of Accessibility Services Professional Licensure Transfer Student Services Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University.