Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Tuition Equity and Exemption from Non-Resident Tuition - Haga clic aquí para ver esta página en español HB 2787: What is it? Oregon SB1563 made updates to the original House Bill 2787 permitting certain students an exemption from nonresident tuition and fees at Oregon public universities. In summary, OSU may grant in-state tuition for undocumented students who have met all of the following criteria: Attended elementary or secondary/high school in a state or territory of the U.S. for the five years prior to earning a high school diploma or GED Studied at an Oregon school for at least the three years prior to earning a high school diploma or GED Graduated from an Oregon high school or received a GED in Oregon Show intention to become a U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident What does it mean? Students attending Oregon State University who meet the requirements of HB 2787/SB1563, may be assessed in-state tuition rates at Oregon State University. Please note: the assessment of in-state tuition rates under HB 2787 does not change a student’s residency status. How to apply? Students would complete a domestic application as either an undergraduate student or graduate student. Students should indicate their citizenship as ‘non-U.S. citizen’ on their application for admission. SB 1522: What is it? Oregon Senate Bill 1522 expanded the categories of individuals who are exempt from non-resident tuition. In addition to the students who meet the criteria listed above, students will be exempt from non-resident tuition if they are: A student who is a COFA islander and who has not previously established residence in any state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia other than Oregon OR A student who is a refugee or special immigrant visa holder and who has not previously established residence in any state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia other than Oregon "Special immigrant visa holder" means: (A) An individual from Iraq or Afghanistan who was provided with the status of special immigrant by the United States Department of Homeland Security under: [(A)] (i) Section 1059(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006, P.L. 109-163, 119 Stat. 3444; [(B)] (ii) Section 1244(b) of the Refugee Crisis in Iraq Act of 2007, P.L. 110-181, 122 Stat. 397; or [(C)] (iii) Section 602(b) of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009, P.L. 111-8, 123 Stat. 807{.}; or (B) An individual who is granted humanitarian parole, asylum, conditional permanent residency or temporary protected status by the United States Department of Homeland Security or other federal agency. What does it mean? Students attending Oregon State University who meet the requirements of SB1522 may be assessed in-state tuition rates at Oregon State University. Please note: the assessment of in-state tuition rates under SB1522 does not change a student’s residency status. How to apply? Students who have approved refugee or asylee status would complete a domestic application as either an undergraduate student or graduate student. Students should indicate their citizenship as ‘non-U.S. citizen’ on their application for admission and submit a copy of their I-94 document. Students who are pending refugee or asylee status, or who have any kind of visa, should apply through the Office of International Admissions. Undergraduate Applicants Undergraduate students will complete the tuition equity section within their application of admission. Information disclosed to the Admissions Office about citizenship/immigration status is confidential and will not negatively impact the admissions review. If you feel you did not complete the tuition equity section, and you would like to verify that it was completed, you can contact your Admissions Advisor. Click here to find your Admissions Advisor. To check on your admissions status and checklist after you submit your application, visit your Beaver Basecamp. Graduate Applicants How to submit paperwork if you qualify under HB 2787? Applicants can complete our online Tuition Equity affidavit. Students who have paper Tuition Equity Affidavits can submit them as pdf attachments to [email protected] Please note: this is the process for new admission applicants only! Current OSU students that wish to be considered for in-state tuition under HB 2787 should contact the Admissions office for details on that process. How to submit paperwork, if you are undocumented but do not qualify for HB2787? The Tuition Equity Statement is required if you are undocumented and do not qualify for HB2787. Your admission application will not be considered complete until all required academic documents and the Tuition Equity Statement is submitted electronically to Oregon State. Scholarships and Aid Do undocumented students qualify for merit based aid? Yes, undocumented and DACA-mented students are eligible for merit based awards at OSU including the Finley Academic Excellence Scholarship, Diversity Achievement Scholarship, and consideration for OSU’s Presidential Scholarship. Students are considered for some awards with their admissions application but can apply for additional scholarships through ScholarDollars once they have been admitted. For more information on scholarships visit the Scholarship Office Website. Are undocumented students eligible for state or federal forms of financial aid (ie, FAFSA)? Undocumented students are not eligible to receive federal aid, grants or loans, however, DACA students who have been provided with a social security number can fill out FAFSA in order to receive a Student Aid Report (SAR). Although they can fill out FAFSA and get a SAR these students still cannot access federal aid. Student Aid Reports (SAR) can be used to demonstrate need and can be used to apply for private, state and institutional funding. SB 932 (Senate Bill 932) allows eligible students to apply and be considered for the state funded Oregon Opportunity Grant (OOG) and, if eligible, Oregon Promise. In order to be qualified for OOG, students need to be Oregon residents or be exempted from paying non-resident tuition (through a program like HB2787 Tuition Equity). Eligible students can apply using the Oregon Student Aid Application (ORSAA). Students can visit the OSAC - Oregon Office of Student Access and Completion website to determine if they are eligible to file for ORSAA. Other questions? For more information about applying to Oregon State as an undocumented student and undocumented student resources, please visit our undocumented student page. View our HB 2787 Frequently Asked Questions flyer. Please contact the Office of Admissions by email at [email protected] or by phone at 800-291-4192, option 4. Cost and Aid Cost and Aid Main Page Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) Tuition Equity Tuition Equity - Español Bridge to Success Presidential Scholarship Awards Degree Partnership Program FAFSA Application Scholarships Site Financial Aid Site Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram