Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Luke Grayson Class of 2025 back Click to Close Bio Welcome to the blog of an Englishman studying at Dartmouth—do take a look around! Hopefully, my blogs will provide you with an insight on life at Dartmouth, and specifically through the eyes of an international student. Dartmouth has a tonne to offer from the staggering natural beauty of its surroundings and stellar academic programs to the wonderful people you meet along the way. So stay a while, I'll make us cups of tea, and take a moment to discover life at the college on the hill. Academic Program Undecided Favorite Thing Right Now Hiking! Especially at sunrise! Hometown Seaham, England Pronouns he/him About Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Greenkey: dancing in a field to internationally famous mucisians in Hanover! « All Posts by this Blogger Greenkey: dancing in a field to internationally famous mucisians in Hanover! Dartmouth is – as I have said in many prior blogs – a place full of traditions, and Greenkey is no exception! Every year in spring Dartmouth has what is – in my opinion – its most fun weekend. We have a vast array of events happening all over campus all weekend, and to top it all off we have the greenkey music festival! This year's acts were awesome: Dartmouth's own Moon Unit, Doechii, Saint Motel, and KYLE! The concert was a really fun time, with thousands of people on Tuck Drive all dancing and having a great time to huge artists (and all of this in Hanover). Greenkey is more than just the concert though; most of my professors cancelled classes for it, and Collis had live music nearly all day both Friday and Saturday! There were also music events hosted by student groups such as Phi Delta Alpha's Block Party, and the dance shows on campus! It was really a time to celebrate the coming of Spring, and to spend time with friends without worrying about academics or coursework. Incredibly too, the weather surged to above 90, (32 C for my non US readership). The greenkey friday was the main day – I slept in until 1pm, met up with friends and relaxed on the green, attended the block party, and then hit the concert! The vibes at the concert were immaculate. Moon Unit started us off with a wonderful performance which got us moving, and then Doechii really began to get the vibes going; her bassy music had everyone hyped and ready for the next group: Saint Motel. Saint Motel then honestly hit the peak vibes of the concert with a memorable set that included various songs I know from FIFA games, and the rest which satiated my need for indie rock music. Finally, KYLE took the stage by storm with music such as iSpy and Playin with me and got the crowd into a mood where everyone was just dancing and having a good time! Overall, Greenkey weekend was my best weekend on campus in a long while. I found myself having fun the whole weekend and I don't think there was a minute in which I didn't have something fun to do! It was a chance just after the conclusion of midterms to unwind and spend time with friends, and I truly will cherish every memory Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/30/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts greenkey festival Dance Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Posts You Might Like Visit the Blog A Letter to Freshman Year With freshman year coming to a close, I wrote a Thank You note to one of the best years! Read More Caroline York 2025 Goodbye, 22S Happy last week of classes! Here are some of my reflections from my junior spring. Read More Love Tsai 2023 Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Freshman Year: A Retrospective A look back at my first year at Dartmouth! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 Taking my Professor to Lunch! Here's a reflection on my experience taking my computer science professor out for a free meal paid for by the school! Read More Jack Heaphy 2024 Work Hard, Play Hard: A Green Key Weekend at Dartmouth! After two years, Dartmouth's annual spring festival, known affectionately as Green Key, occurred this weekend! The weekend held many events, but even so, I saw the Dartmouth culture of work hard, play hard. Read More Tulio Huggins 2023 Alumni Interview I sat down with my friend, Ali '20, who conducts interviews, to gain some insight into what students should expect for the interviews. Read More Caroline York 2025 Saint Motel Meets Hanover: Green Key 2022! As the 23s, 24s, and 25s shared our first Green Key together, Dartmouth ended up bringing my middle-school self's favorite band to campus: here's how my Green Key went! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Green Key!!!!!! It's a Dartmouth tradition to celebrate Green Key every spring. What exactly is Green Key you ask? In short, it is one of the best weekends ever. Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback