Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Visit / Getting Here custom css-js - global Getting Here Tulane University is located in Uptown New Orleans. The Uptown campus is on the St. Charles Avenue streetcar line, across from Audubon Park, and approximately four miles from the French Quarter. Experience our Interactive Campus Map. Air Travel to New Orleans When flying to New Orleans, the destination airport is Louis Armstrong International Airport (MSY). Armstrong International is served by 15 airlines to 48 nonstop destinations, both domestic and international. Airport Shuttle $24 each way or $44 round-trip between Tulane and the airport Purchase tickets in advance here Stops in front of PJ's Coffee on Tulane's campus at the corner of Willow and McAlister (building #96 on the above campus map) For more information, call 866.596.2699 Taxis to and from the Airport $36 for 1 to 2 people $15 per person for 3+ people Stop outside airport baggage claim (lower level) Rail Travel to New Orleans New Orleans is served by Amtrak's daily City of New Orleans and Crescent routes, as well as the 3-days-weekly Sunset Limited route, through Union Passenger Terminal. The UPT is on the Loyola Streetcar Line (red cars). Transportation within New Orleans For your convenience, we recommend taking a taxi or using public transportation when traveling around the city. Parking in both Uptown and Downtown New Orleans is hard to come by, and garage parking at downtown hotels can be expensive. Streetcars $1.25 per person, per ride, per line The St. Charles line runs every 10 minutes from 6:00 AM to 12:00 midnight every day, and every 20 minutes from 12:00 midnight to 6:00 AM The Canal (Cemeteries) line runs every 20 minutes from 5:00 AM to 1:00 PM, and every 30 minutes from 1:00 PM to 3:30 AM Click here to download the GoMobile App Click here for the full streetcar system map and timetable Taxis $3.50 for first 1/8 mile $0.25 for each additional 1/8 mile $1.00 for each additional passenger Getting to Tulane's Uptown Campus Due to limited parking in the Uptown area, we strongly recommend you use public transportation or a taxi to get to Tulane. The Office of Undergraduate Admission is located in 210 Gibson Hall, at 6823 St. Charles Avenue. Download and/or print an illustrated map of campus (PDF). Riding the Streetcar Tulane is on the St. Charles Streetcar Line (green cars). If you're arriving to campus from the French Quarter or Central Business District, we recommend you catch the St. Charles streetcar at Common Street & St. Charles Avenue, one block off Canal Street. Tulane is across from Audubon Park, and Gibson Hall is the center of the three main limestone buildings on St. Charles Avenue. Proceed up the center staircase, which leads directly into the Office of Undergraduate Admission. Driving from the West on I-10 (from the airport) Follow signs toward the Central Business District. As you enter the downtown area, follow signs to Hwy. 90 Business/West Bank. Exit at St. Charles Avenue/Carondelet Street (do not cross the bridge). At the second traffic light, take a right onto St. Charles Avenue. Follow St. Charles Avenue about four miles. Tulane and Gibson Hall will be on your right at 6823 St. Charles Avenue, across from Audubon Park. Gibson Hall is the center of the three main limestone buildings on St. Charles Avenue. Proceed up the center staircase, which leads directly into the Office of Undergraduate Admission. Driving from the East on I-10 As you enter the downtown area, follow signs to Hwy. 90 Business/West Bank. Exit at St. Charles Avenue/Carondelet Street (do not cross the bridge). At the second traffic light take a right onto St. Charles Avenue. Follow St. Charles Avenue for about four miles. Tulane and Gibson Hall will be on your right at 6823 St. Charles Avenue, across from Audubon Park. Gibson Hall is the center of the three main limestone buildings on St. Charles Avenue. Proceed up the center staircase, which leads directly into the Office of Undergraduate Admission. Parking at Tulane If you're driving to campus, we recommend you plan to arrive early enough to find parking and walk to Gibson Hall from your vehicle. There are six parking spaces in Cowen Circle outside the admission office for daily admission visitors, but parking on and around Tulane's campus can be very limited, especially for larger vehicles. Please note that the only other available spaces on campus are metered; unmarked spaces require annual parking permits every weekday. Campus Tours Daily Campus Tours Large Group Tours Arts/Architecture Tours Our Tour Guides VirTUal Visiting Class Visits Special Programs Tulane Comes to You Campus Preview Days Pre-College Summer Programs Metropolitan Universities Tour Junior Nights Interactive Campus Map Getting Here Eat, Stay, Play Eating in New Orleans Where To Stay Celebrated Events Our Favorite Places Did You Know? Founded in 1924, Tulane’s Middle American Research Institute (MARI) boasts a large collection of Mayan artifacts and a museum. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University