Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Postbaccalaureate Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Apply Home Apply Admission to majors Dates and deadlines Freshman How to apply Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Parents & Families Preparing for college Running Start Transfer How to apply Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Transfer GPA Transfer credit policies WA CC Equivalency Guide Transfer planning resources Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Postbaccalaureate How to apply Military Postbaccalaureate (postbac) is a matriculated status reserved for students who are working toward a second bachelor’s degree or preparing for entrance to graduate or professional school. Only a small number of applicants are admitted every quarter as postbacs because the UW’s primary commitment is to undergraduates who are completing a first bachelor’s degree. What you need to know: Key dates & deadlines Quarter of application Quarter begins Application opens Application deadline Notification period Winter Early January August 1 September 1 November + December Autumn Late September December 15 February 15 May + June Spring* Late March N/A N/A N/A Summer** Mid-June December 15 February 15 May + June * Spring quarter is not open for general admission. Bioengineering & chemical engineering students U.S. and international students may submit the spring quarter application (closed) only if also applying for spring quarter direct entry to the programs listed below. Direct entry applicants must also submit a departmental application to the program; check department websites for instructions. The following departments consider postbaccalaureate applications for spring quarter only: Bioengineering Chemical engineering The following departments consider postbaccalaureate applications for spring and autumn quarters: Bioresource science & engineering (international students are only eligible to apply to this program for autumn quarter) ** Choosing summer means you wish to being regular enrollment in the summer and continue into autumn as a degree-seeking student. If you choose summer admission and fail to attend summer quarter, your autumn admission and registration are cancelled. To apply for summer quarter as a non-degree student, contact Summer Quarter. How to apply How to apply Learn about the statement of purpose and other essential policies affecting postbaccalaureate admission. Other enrollment options Other enrollment options Although a student cannot earn a degree in a nonmatriculated status, a grade is earned and full credit is awarded and recorded on a UW transcript. The credits earned in a nonmatriculated status usually transfer to other institutions, although each college or university makes its own policies about accepting transfer credit. If a student is later accepted into a matriculated status at the UW, credits earned as a nonmatriculated student may be applied to undergraduate degree requirements, with some restrictions. For example, a maximum of 90 credits earned through the Online Learning program may be applied toward a bachelor’s degree. And, generally, the last 45 credits of a baccalaureate degree must be earned as a matriculated student in residence at the UW. Nonmatriculated options UW summer quarter With no enrollment limit, summer quarter is open to everyone. All programs are offered for credit during the nine-week academic term. Non-Degree enrollment in UW credit classes Non-Degree Enrollment allows anyone to take courses and earn credit at the UW without applying for formal admission or enrolling in a degree program. Many classes found in the UW Time Schedule are available for Non-Degree Enrollment. UW Professional & Continuing Education classes UW Professional and Continuing Education offers a wide variety of classes, both credit and noncredit, to prepare for graduate school, help you advance your career, or learn new skills. Online learning Online Learning offers you the flexibility to pursue your goals on your schedule. You’ll experience the same top-notch instruction as any other UW program, but in a web-based format that lets you study from anywhere. Graduate nonmatriculated status (GNM) GNM provides access to graduate courses for qualified post-baccalaureate students. GNM students may apply up to 12 credits towards a graduate degree if they are later admitted to a UW graduate program. Students wishing further information should contact the academic department in which they may later wish to pursue a degree. Certificate programs More than 100 certificate programs are designed to keep you competitive in the ever-changing job market, whether you need to learn new skills to advance in your current career or want to make a career change. Programs for educators From Social Studies to Grant Writing and certification, the UW offers courses and programs especially for K-12 educators. Access program for older adults The UW waives tuition for Washington residents sixty years or older who wish to audit classes on a space-available basis. Access students do not receive credit and are not permitted to do laboratory work or to take examinations. Home Apply Admission to majors Dates and deadlines Freshman How to apply Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Parents & Families Preparing for college Running Start Transfer How to apply Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Transfer GPA Transfer credit policies WA CC Equivalency Guide Transfer planning resources Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Postbaccalaureate How to apply Military Resources What is my application type WA CC Equivalency Guide Disability resources Freshman viewbook – interactive version Freshman viewbook – pdf Transfer viewbook Deadlines December 15: Postbac autumn application opens February 15: Postbac autumn application deadline May + June: Postbac autumn notification period University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA