Skip to main content Colorado State University Admissions Visit Info Apply hamburger The Basics Information for Future Students Information for Counselors, Parents and Families Cost and Financial Aid What We Stand For The CSU Experience Academic programs This Amazing Location Campus Life The Value of a CSU Education Connect With CSU Request Info Find Your Counselor View Our Blog Contact Us COVID-19 Updates Visit Visits and Events Directions and Parking Virtual Tour Apply Applying to Colorado State Continuing Your Application Checking Your Application Status Graduate Student Admissions Admitted Students Visits and Events There are so many ways to explore life as a future Ram. Join us in beautiful Fort Collins for a variety of events and tours, or stay home and check out our online events, like our virtual tour, webinars, and virtual appointments with an admissions counselor. Get answers about the admissions process, learn more about majors, and discover opportunities that will shape your college experience. Check out the options below to make connections and get to know Colorado State University. On-Campus tours and events Tours & Info Sessions Ongoing We offer a large variety of guided, on-campus tours and info sessions to showcase our academics, student life, and the steps to becoming a Ram. TOURS & SESSIONS Self-guided tours Ongoing See Colorado State at your own pace using our free, self-guided tour app that will lead you on a general or personalized tour of campus. SELF-GUIDED TOURS ACADEMIC VISITS Ongoing Join us in person to learn about specific majors and academic programs. You can take a short tour or two, or explore even further with an in-depth event. ACADEMIC VISITS Virtual options and events Virtual tour Virtual Tour SEE 30+ SPACES ON CAMPUS & IN FORT COLLINS Information session webinars Ongoing Watch a brief presentation about academics, the admissions process, financial aid and scholarships, and campus involvement. Then, ask questions via chat. INFO SESSION WEBINARS Live Virtual Tours Select Saturdays Join current CSU students via Zoom as they take you through some of the highlights around campus and tell stories from their own on-campus experiences during this live and on location virtual tour. LIVE VIRTUAL TOURS Parent & family webinars Ongoing Learn more about what to expect and how you can best support your student through the college admissions process at Colorado State in this series of webinars. PARENT WEBINARS ACADEMIC EVENTS Ongoing Join us online to learn more about specific majors, exploratory studies (if you aren’t ready to choose a major), and the ways students can be active in their academic programs. ACADEMIC EVENTS Webinars & online appointments Ongoing Tune in for a variety of webinars to learn more about the CSU community, student life, housing, and more. WEBINARS Take a deeper look Get an inside perspective on the path to becoming a Ram. SEE OUR BLOG Visit Campus and Fort Collins Blogs About Fort Collins Campus Map COVID Health Protocols Directions and Parking Online Events Pet Policy Tobacco Policy An equal access and equal opportunity university. © 2022 Colorado State University #colostatebound Contact Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement