Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Diversity & Inclusivity You are here Home Student Life Diversity & Well-being Diversity & Inclusivity About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Find yourself and your community at Temple. We celebrate the diversity of our student body at Temple and we take pride in our students, who come to us from over 100 countries around the world. Students of color represent nearly 45% of our Class of 2025 and, more specifically, we most recently welcomed our largest ever Black student and Latina/o student communities. Below, you’ll find the resources and organizations that may be of interest to you so you know how welcome you are at Temple. Valerie Harrison Vice President for Public Affairs “Temple has a significant record of racial equity work and the current moment provides us with an opportunity to amplify and accelerate that work. Temple’s most recent initiative will expand the Department of Africology and African American Studies, create a Center for Anti-Racism Research, and develop a pipeline and bridge program to college for North Philadelphia students.” Contents Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and LeadershipFirst-generation College Student ResourcesPreferred Name UseDisability Resources and ServicesInternational Affairs https://news.temple.edu/announcements/2020-09-16/temple-university-commits-more-… Anti-racism Efforts We’ve committed more than $1 million to combat racism on our campuses, in our city and beyond. We’re establishing a new academic pathway to college program for students in neighboring communities, and we’re reinvesting in anti-racism education and programming. https://news.temple.edu/announcements/2020-09-16/temple-university-commits-more-… Read the university's recent announcement about our anti-racism efforts https://news.temple.edu/related-stories/temple-thought-leaders Temple Thought Leaders Open dialogue is valued here and our expert faculty provide important and compelling insights into what’s happening in our world right now. Get to know some of our faculty members by reading their perspectives on race, racism and social movements. Read our news stories about faculty thought leaders and their impact in the world. Talk to Undergraduate Admissions Temple is committed to providing opportunities for everyone. We encourage you to talk to our Admissions team directly so we can answer your questions and help you get to know the Temple community. Antonio Romero Associate Director for Diversity Initiatives and Community Relations Antonio recruits prospective students from the city of Philadelphia and beyond, and is also our primary contact for students in foster care. He and his colleagues work closely with high school counselors and community organizations, helping cultivate, enroll and provide access to a diverse undergraduate student body at Temple. Contact Antonio The Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership Temple’s Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL) embodies our dedication to continually grow and nurture a strong, inclusive campus community. IDEAL’s goal is to inspire meaningful connections and engagement across a variety of identity groups through advocacy, programs, recruitment and training. Student Support Students are always free to visit the IDEAL office for a welcoming, inclusive space to discuss critical diversity issues, or simply a casual space to study. The office is equipped with a social justice library, smart technology in all rooms, landscaped outdoor courtyard and a satellite computer lab. If you want to be an active member of IDEAL, check out the different student employment opportunities or become a Diversity Peer—our group of voluntary student leaders who advocate and provide diversity programming to further encourage inclusivity at Temple. Fighting Discrimination at Temple Members of the Temple community are encouraged to speak out against discrimination to uphold Temple’s commitment to be an inclusive campus. The university’s equity, diversity and inclusion portfolio—which includes IDEAL, the office of Equal Opportunity Compliance and the Title IX coordinator—provides support and resources for students who feel they have been a victim to discrimination and/or biased behavior, including information about safe spaces, LGBTQIA+ resources, and Title IX and equal opportunity resources. Contact Connect with IDEAL to learn more about our resources or how to get involved by visiting the IDEAL website. Phone: 215-204-7303 Email: ideal@temple.edu Return to Top https://diversity.temple.edu/ IDEAL Office Discover how IDEAL works to support meaningful connections and an inclusive community. IDEAL Office https://diversity.temple.edu/ideal/lgbtqia LGBTQIA+ Community Find out how IDEAL celebrates, supports and advocates for LGBTQIA+ students. LGBTQIA+ Community First-generation College Student Resources An estimated 30% of incoming Temple first-year students are expected to be the first generation in their family to graduate from college. We welcome first-generation students with a wide array of support services and initiatives. Fly in 4 Program Temple’s Fly in 4 program was launched to help students—especially first-generation students—graduate in four years. The program encourages students to meet distinct checkpoints to stay on track to graduate on time. If not, Temple will commit to covering the cost of tuition for their remaining coursework. Financial Aid, Scholarships and Basic Needs Temple awards a number of scholarships specifically for first-generation students, most of which students are automatically considered for by completing the Common Application and Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Among those scholarships are our Fly In 4 grants, Broad Street Finish Line grants and Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program. If you have any questions about scholarships, Temple’s Student Financial Services Office can provide additional information. Additionally, almost every college student needs support for food, housing, and other basic needs. Some get assistance from their parents, while others have to pay for it themselves, and may fall short on those bills at a given time. Temple is invested in our student’s success and wants you to connect with the support systems we have in place to empower you to stay focused on learning. You are not alone and it’s okay to ask for help. Talk to our teams directly or explore these additional resources for your basic needs (beyond tuition): Financial Services Basic Needs Resource page: sfs.temple.edu/financial-aid-types/basic-needs Dean of Students Needs Assistance page: deanofstudents.temple.edu/need-assistance-4 Philadelphia Resources for #RealCollege Students: covidcollegesupport.com/philadelphia Surviving Covid-19, A Guide for Students: hope4college.com/surviving-covid-19-a-realcollege-guide-for-students First to Fly First to Fly is a campaign executed through our Office of New Student and Family Programs to promote awareness of first-generation students. This includes a student glossary as well as links to resources or services available to first-generation students. Ready to Fly Program The Ready to Fly program is a new program for first-generation students in the College of Education and Human Development and College of Liberal Arts. Ready to Fly students receive extra support and get a head start on becoming familiar with college-level work and navigating Temple systems and resources. Temple First Temple First is a student organization that supports first-generation students, and it is a chapter of the Collective Success Network. Pre-college Programs Temple offers a number of pre-college programs to help prospective students prepare for college. From Temple Education Scholars to B4USoar, these programs aim to prepare first-generation students for college-level coursework so they can get a head start on the college experience before they arrive on campus. Student Success Center Temple’s Student Success Center is our tutoring and academic support center for all students. Available services include our University Writing Center, math and science tutoring, study groups for specific courses, and more. Next Steps AmeriCorps A college completion and success strategy, the Next Steps AmeriCorps Program engages students in part-time service, including mentoring first-year college students. Upward Bound Upward Bound are college access programs providing first-generation and low-income students with tools to be successful in college. Our programs operate year-round and consist of weekday after-school tutoring and college access programming, Saturday academic instruction and enrichment, and a six-week summer program that culminates with a multiday trip touring college campuses. College Access Community of Practice The College Access Community of Practice is a grassroots organization of Temple staff, faculty, students and external partners who work to address the needs of first-generation college students. Each year, the group supports the National First-generation College Celebration Week in November. For more information, please contact Juliet Cursi, College of Education and Human Development, by email at juliet.curci@temple.edu or by calling 215-204-2475. The Hope Center for College, Community and Justice The Hope Center is the nation’s leading housing and basic needs advocacy organization, based at Temple. It is home to the #RealCollege movement. Preferred Name Use At Temple, we support the need or preference for members of our community who identify by a name other than their legal name. The university will accommodate a preferred name during university business and education. The preferred name will be used in many university contexts, including the Cherry & White directory, OWLcards and student names on faculty class rosters and grade rosters. Members of the Temple community can update their preferred name via the “Update Your Preferred Name” option in the Manage My Account section of TUportal. Contact If you have questions about requesting a preferred name, please send an email to preferredname@temple.edu. Return to Top https://www.temple.edu/life-temple/diversity-inclusion/preferred-name-use Learn More About Preferred Name Use Identity is critical to who you are. Temple provides a process so you can use your preferred name in the campus community. Learn More About Preferred Name Use Disability Resources and Services Temple’s Disability Resources and Services (DRS) provides access, accommodations and opportunities for students with a disability to grow and excel during their time at Temple University and beyond. DRS develops programs and workshops to support students and provides training and awareness about access and inclusion to the entire Temple community. Students who connect with DRS include those with physical, visual, hearing and speech disabilities; health, mental health and autism spectrum conditions; attention deficits; brain injuries; and learning disabilities. Accommodations DRS provides academic accommodations, which are modifications provided to students to provide equal access to the learning environment. As a student, you can work with DRS to establish reasonable accommodations for your courses and academic requirements. DRS also partners with University Housing and Residential Life for students who request accessible housing. Learn more about accessible housing options on campus. Sign Language and CART Temple provides sign language interpreting, on-site and remote Communication Access Real Time Translation (CART) services for students at no cost for academic-related purposes. Assistive Technology Temple offers assistive technology and software to students, including JAWS screen readers, Braille displays, digital recorders and electronic recording devices. https://disabilityresources.temple.edu/ Online DRS Support Although COVID-19 has made some changes to your typical Temple experience, DRS is still offering virtual support. Find answers and see how DRS will be operating this semester. Online DRS Support Contact If you have questions, contact Temple’s Disability Resources and Services. Phone: 215-204-1280 Email: drs@temple.edu Return to Top Office of International Affairs The Temple community comprises students from all over the world—approximately 3,000 international students study at Temple. The now nationwide campaign and scholarship #YouAreWelcomeHere started on our campus in 2016 and everyday we carry out its mission to ensure our international students know they have a home here. To further our global perspective and support our students studying here and away, Temple’s Office of International Affairs is divided into the following two units. Education Abroad and Overseas Campuses, which serves students and scholars studying on Main Campus who wish to study abroad. International Services and Programs, which serves international students and scholars coming to Temple University. Through our initiatives, we encourage and facilitate opportunities for students to study abroad, champion international partnerships, ensure that international students have the needed resources and support for success, and recruit a diverse international student body. Contact If you have questions, contact the Office of International Affairs. Phone: 215-204-9570 Email: international@temple.edu Return to Top https://admissions.temple.edu/apply/international-students Apply to Temple Are you an international student interested in Temple? Learn how to apply. Apply to Temple /student-life/living-philadelphia Living in Philadelphia Explore Philadelphia, our home and one of the most diverse cities in the U.S. Living in Philadelphia /student-life/student-activities Student Activities Discover more student organizations like IDEAL and how to get involved with campus activities. Student Activities Back to Diversity & Well-being Back to Student Life More In This Section Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info