Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Medical School Admissions Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Search Medical School Admissions Early Identification Program (EIP) Admissions Information for Tougaloo College applicants Program Description The Early Identification Program (EIP) is a cooperative venture between The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University and the following colleges and universities: University of Rhode Island, Providence College, Rhode Island College, and Tougaloo College. This program provides selected students at these undergraduate schools a place in the medical school following the student's graduation. The purpose of the program is to increase the opportunities for a career in medicine to residents of the state of Rhode Island and to students from medically underrepresented minority groups (African Americans, Mexican Americans, Native Americans, and Mainland Puerto Ricans). Once selected, EIP students from Tougaloo College are encouraged to enroll in undergraduate courses within the Division of Biology and Medicine at Brown University and to participate in professional development activities with their future medical school classmates in the Brown University Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME). Eligibility Tougaloo College students enrolled in the sophomore year are eligible to be considered for this program. All applicants to the program must be U.S. citizens. Admissions Process Students interested in the EIP should notify the premedical advisor at their undergraduate college of their interest prior to the beginning of their third semester. Premedical advisors may require students to express interest at an earlier date, so students should inquire about deadlines at their own school. Students offered provisional admission through the Early Identification Program are selected from institutional nominees to the program. Each institution, through its premedical advisors, may nominate up to four candidates. Nominated candidates will be considered for interviews. Alpert Medical School reserves the right to reject any applicant that it believes does not meet its standards. Students nominated for the EIP must meet the following requirements before their application is considered complete. Materials sent by facsimile are not acceptable and will not be considered. Only complete applications will be reviewed. 1. Submission of the Early Identification Program Application Form Applicants must submit an electronic version of the completed application by the specified deadline. The application forms are available below: Tougaloo College Early Identification Program Application 2. Official transcripts from all institutions of higher education where courses were taken Transcripts must be sent directly from the Registrar's Office to the Admissions Office or to the premedical advisor. Transcripts sent by the student will not be considered. Separate transcripts are not necessary for courses that are taken as part of a semester abroad or semester-away program as long as the courses and/or credits earned in such courses are reflected on the transcript of the home institution. 3. Three letters of recommendation, preferably from faculty members who have taught the applicant in college These letters must be sent to the school’s premedical advisor who will then send the letters to the Office of Admissions. Electronic letters are acceptable if sent by email directly from the premedical advisor. Letters submitted by the applicant will not be considered. 4. Recommendation from the premedical advisor The Early Identification Program application and supporting materials from Tougaloo College applicants must be received no later than March 1, 2022. The recommendation of the premedical advisor and the transcripts must reflect grades received by the student through the first three college semesters. Admissions decisions will be communicated to applicants in April 2022. Interviews EIP applicants may be invited to interview with two members of the Admissions Committee. Tougaloo College candidates will be interviewed in March. Contingencies Once an applicant is accepted to participate in the EIP, formal acceptance to Alpert Medical School is contingent upon: satisfactory academic progress as evidenced by a minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.0 attainment of competence in the sciences basic to medicine as described in Educational Requirements senior year recommendation letter from the premedical advisor documented verification of the student's complete academic record, including completion of the baccalaureate degree. the student must also maintain good academic and disciplinary standing at Tougaloo College. continued ability to maintain the Technical Standards for Alpert Medical School. EIP applicants who have been offered provisional admission will be required to complete information needed for a criminal background check (CBC) prior to matriculation. The CBC is required of all applicants who have been offered admission to Alpert Medical School. Alpert Medical School reserves the right to withdraw an offer of admission in any of the following circumstances: the minimum cumulative GPA requirement of 3.0 is not met coursework and grades as described in Educational Requirements are not fulfilled CBC results and other information that comes to the attention of the Admissions Committee raise concerns regarding an applicant’s suitability for a career in medicine. In addition, EIP participants are required to submit an AMCAS application to Alpert Medical School in their senior year. Instructions regarding the AMCAS application process are emailed in the summer of the senior year. The AMCAS fee is waived for applicants to the Early Identification Program. Applicants must adhere to deadlines for submission of the AMCAS application and all supporting materials. EIP participants from Tougaloo College are also required to apply to the Brown-Tougaloo Exchange Program in which they spend at least one regular academic semester in residence at Brown University during their junior or senior year of college. Courses taken at Brown must include one biology course in which a grade of B or higher is attained. Accepted EIP students are also encouraged to participate in the "Month of Medical School" program. The "Month of Medical School" program is a 3-4 week immersion experience that begins prior to the undergraduate semester at Brown. During the program, students take classes and participate as first-year medical students. Although not mandatory, accepted students are highly encouraged to participate. Additional Information Applicants who would like additional information about The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University are welcome to write or telephone the admissions office with questions. Alpert Medical School Office of Admissions Box G-M, Providence, RI 02912 Telephone: (401) 863-2149 e-mail: MedSchool_Admissions@brown.edu Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Early Identification Program (EIP) Admissions Information for Tougaloo College applicants Open details for Early Identification Program (EIP) Admissions Information for Tougaloo College applicants Bookmark this Page