Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Undergraduate Admissions Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy First-Year ApplicantsIt all starts here Transfer ApplicantsEasy transition Check Application Status Costs & Aid Apply for Aid Financial Aid Eligibility Costs to Attend Financial Aid Calculator Value of a Cornell Education Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Facts Frequently Asked Questions Cornell A-Z Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections You are here Home » Living » Just for Fun at Cornell print share Facebook Twitter Just for Fun at Cornell There is so much to see and do at Cornell and in Ithaca. Enjoy the great outdoors and a musical performance, or hang out in Collegetown for the night with friends and classmates. Experience what Cornell has to offer beyond the classroom. Take a Hike Experience for yourself the many hiking trails, gorges, and waterfalls just outside your front door. Or visit one of the four state parks within 10 miles of campus —Buttermilk Falls, Robert H. Treman, Allan H. Treman, and Taughannock Falls. Concerts, Plays, and Movies Dubbed "Ithaca's year-round film festival," Cornell Cinema is one of the best campus cinema programs in the U.S. You can also see one of the outstanding performances at the Schwartz Center for the Performing Arts or catch the latest movie or local event in downtown Ithaca. Life on the Lake Cayuga Lake is a fantastic place for boating, swimming, fishing, or just watching the sunset. Appreciate Art Visit Cornell’s own Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art, which houses Cornell's historic permanent collection featuring more than 35,000 works of art. Shop Looking for something? You can find it in Ithaca. Visit boutique shops on the Ithaca Commons, national superstores along Route 13, or the convenient Ithaca Mall less than 3 miles from North Campus. Head for the Hills Greek Peak, less than half an hour from campus, offers snowboarding, skiing, and tubing. Eat Local The Ithaca Farmers Market offers fresh produce, baked goods, and arts and crafts. Enjoy a stroll along Cayuga Lake after shopping. Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Contact Us From your first questions about Cornell to the completion of your application, the Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you find the information you need. Website Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. University Privacy Statement Undergraduate Admissions Office Cornell University 410 Thurston Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 admissions@cornell.edu Tel: 607.255.5241 Fax: 607.255.0659 © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment Admitted Students