Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts ROTC Princeton offers Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) in three branches of service—Army, Navy and Air Force—to prepare students to become officers in the U.S. military after graduation. Our ROTC programs embody Princeton’s unofficial motto, “In the Nation’s Service, and the Service of Humanity,” permitting our students and graduates to contribute to the nation’s military in a diverse range of fields and careers. We've had many students particpate in our ROTC programs throughout the years and our notable graduates of Princeton ROTC programs include General Mark A. Milley '80, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Brigadier General Katherine E. White '88, who also serves as a law professor at Wayne State University and as a member of the University of Michigan Board of Regents; and Mikayla Blaska ’19, who recently became just the 56th woman to graduate from Army Ranger School. 100 Years of ROTC at Princeton During the Centennial celebration for 100 years of ROTC at Princeton, President Eisgruber reflected on the impact of these programs, stating: "Princeton’s ROTC programs have trained generations of leaders who have served this country, and who continue to serve this country, with courage, wisdom and integrity, exemplifying the University’s commitment to be ‘in the nation’s service and the service of humanity.’" We're proud to have one of the oldest continuously running on-campus ROTC programs. Princeton’s ROTC programs have trained generations of leaders who have served this country, and who continue to serve this country, with courage, wisdom and integrity, exemplifying the University’s commitment to be ‘in the nation’s service and the service of humanity.’ Video of Princeton ROTC, in the Nation&amp;#039;s Service Our Programs Army ROTC Army ROTC at Princeton exists as the Tiger Battalion, which has been in operation on campus since 1919. It was one of 125 ROTC units established by the U.S. Army following World War I. Students can participate in the ROTC program with or without an obligation to future military service. Prospective students interested in Army ROTC at Princeton should contact the program directly or visit our website to learn more about scholarship opportunities. Air Force ROTC and Navy ROTC Princeton students can participate in Air Force ROTC (with the Space Force option) or Navy ROTC (with the Marine Corps option) through our joint programs in a crosstown agreement with Rutgers University. Students can participate with or without a scholarship. Princeton is one of a small number of national universities where all Air Force scholarships are converted into Type I scholarships. Prospective students interested in Air or Space Force ROTC should contact the Rutgers AFROTC program directly, and prospective students interested in the Navy ROTC or Marine Corps option should contact the Rutgers NROTC program directly. Campus Life 100 years of ROTC at Princeton Learn More Full content of https://www.princeton.edu/news/2019/11/12/princeton-marks-100-years-rotc-campus-during-veterans-day-program Campus Life Twelve Princeton ROTC Students Commissioned as Officers Learn More Full content of https://www.princeton.edu/news/2020/06/04/twelve-princeton-rotc-students-commissioned-officers-us-army-navy-and-marines Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746