Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Housing, Meals and Child Care for RUE Applicants There are a variety of housing, meal and child care options for applicants to the Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Program. Breadcrumb Home Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Applicants Sub Navigation In This Section Eligibility Application Requirements Application Process Financial Aid Housing, Meals & Child Care Housing, Meals and Child Care for RUE Applicants There are a variety of housing, meal and child care options for applicants to the Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Program. Housing RUE students generally live off campus, but they may apply to the Office of Residential Life if they would like on-campus housing. The Auxiliary Housing Office maintains off-campus listings for students seeking convenient off-campus housing. Dining Brown Dining Services offers a wide range of flexible meal plans available to students who live on or off campus. Child Care The Brown/Fox Point Early Childhood Education Center is located at the southern edge of campus and accommodates children from age three through pre-K. Tuition is on a sliding scale according to income. Eligible RUE students with dependents between the ages of zero to six may apply to the Office of Financial Aid for a child care allowance of up to $4,000 a year per household. Start Your Application RUE applicants complete the RUE application, not the Common Application. The application is available October 1 for prospective entrance in the fall of the following year. The application deadline is March 1. Apply for the RUE Program Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Housing, Meals and Child Care for RUE Applicants Open details for Housing, Meals and Child Care for RUE Applicants Bookmark this Page