Menu Undergraduate Admission Home Prepare for College Visit Visit Georgia Tech Prepare for Your Visit Explore Atlanta Virtual Visits Apply First-Year Admission Transfer Admission International Applicants International First-Year Applicants International Transfer Applicants Other Programs Dual Enrollment Non-Degree Programs 62 and Older Program Counselors Contact Us Contact Us Join Mailing List Blog Check Application Status 62 and Older Program If you are a Georgia resident at least 62 years of age, you are allowed to take classes on a space-available basis without payment, excluding supplies, laboratory, or shop fees. To enroll at Georgia Tech under the Board of Regents' 62 or Older Program, you must be a legal resident of Georgia. Students accepted under this program may enroll as a regular or auditing Georgia Tech student on a space-available basis. A waiver of in-state tuition and fees may be granted to a legal resident of Georgia aged 62 and over. This waiver can remain in effect as long as you are continuously enrolled. You will be responsible for supplies, laboratory, and shop fees. Graduate Studies: If you would like to take graduate-level classes at Georgia Tech, whether or not you intend to complete a degree, you must apply through the Office of Graduate Studies. Admission Requirements 62 or Older Program students will meet all Institute undergraduate admission requirements, along with prerequisites for the course(s) scheduled, regardless of the type of enrollment. Please read through the Admission Types and their requirements and choose the plan that is appropriate for your background and educational goals. Most of our students in the 62 or Older Program are taking undergraduate courses as non-degree students; therefore, we will begin with that option. Admission Types and Application Requirements Undergraduate Non-Degree Programs Special Student - Post Baccalaureate (MOST OF OUR 62+ STUDENTS ARE THIS TYPE!) If you have completed a bachelor’s or baccalaureate degree from another institution, you may apply to study undergraduate courses at Georgia Tech for personal or professional growth, not in pursuit of a degree. Application Requirements Submit your online application. Pay the $75 non-refundable application fee. Submit your official college transcripts from all previous institutions you’ve attended. Review the application document submission options. Complete and submit the Non-Degree Applicant Permission Form (part one only). Transient Students If you are currently enrolled as an undergraduate in a college or university and plan to return to your home institution after one semester at Georgia Tech. Application Requirements Submit your online application. Pay the $75 non-refundable application fee. Submit your official college transcripts from all previous institutions you’ve attended. Review the application document submission options. Complete and submit the Non-Degree Applicant Permission Form (parts 1-2). Undergraduate Degree-Seeking Programs First-year Applicants If you have never done any college work and would like to pursue a Bachelor of Science Degree, you may apply as a first-year undergraduate student. We do not recommend this application for any student who has been away from high school for more than two years. Because of the competitive first-year applicant pool, we recommend that students who have been away from high school for two years plan to transfer to Georgia Tech after completing introductory course work. Application Requirements Submit your online application. Pay the $75 non-refundable application fee. Submit your official high school transcript. Review the application document submission options. Report your SAT or ACT test scores. Transfer Applicants If you are currently enrolled in a college program or have been enrolled in the past ten years, and would like to transfer to Georgia Tech to finish your undergraduate degree, you may apply for transfer admission. Transfer admission to Georgia Tech is a selective, competitive process. Each major at Georgia Tech has specific course requirements for admission. Application Requirements Submit your online application. Pay the $75 non-refundable application fee. Submit your official college transcripts from all previous institutions you’ve attended. Review the application document submission options. Readmission for Former Georgia Tech Students If you were previously enrolled as an undergraduate student at Tech and have been out of school for two or more consecutive terms, you must apply for readmission. Readmission includes Tech graduates and former students. If you were previously enrolled at Georgia Tech in graduate courses only and wish to take undergraduate courses and not pursue a degree now, you will apply as a Special Student as described above. Readmission Policy Discipline Review Policy We consider student discipline situations on an individual basis, within the framework of the values we uphold as a university. For complete details, read the Georgia Tech Discipline Review Policy. Student Discipline Policy Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology This website uses cookies. For more information, review our Privacy & Legal Notice. Questions? Please email privacy@gatech.edu. OK