Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions First-Year Applicants It's never too early to start preparing for your future, and we are here to help. If you're graduating from high school or have never enrolled in college, you will apply as a first-year applicant. If you've already graduated from high school and begun your college education at another institution, you will need to apply as a transfer applicant. If you are not a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, you'll need to apply as an international applicant. How To Apply Apply Online Apply On Time Early Action Deadline: November 1* Regular Decision Deadline: January 15 Only deadline for studio-based majors* See my options Choose to apply through one of our two applications – we do not have a preference which application you choose. Common App Coalition App Pay the Fee A non-refundable application fee of $85 is required. If you think you may qualify for a fee waiver, view fee waiver eligibility requirements and learn how to submit documentation here. Select a Major On the application, you’ll be asked to select up to two majors based on your interests. We encourage you to select two different majors because if we determine you’re not competitive for your first-choice major, you’ll be reviewed for your second-choice major. Students interested in a studio-based major (Architecture, Art & Design, Fashion & Textile Design, Graphic Design, Industrial Design) must apply by November 1 in addition to submitting a 10-piece portfolio and design essay. 100+ Majors Options First-Year Programs Self-Report Your Test Scores (optional) As a part of the UNC System, NC State will be test-optional for 2023 and 2024 spring and fall first-year applicants. On the admission application you will be required to indicate whether or not you plan to submit SAT or ACT scores for consideration in the admission review process. You will not be disadvantaged if you indicate you do not want scores to be considered in your application review. Learn more about test score consideration in the review process here. If you choose to submit your test scores, you should self-report them on your application. We encourage you to submit all scores, and we will consider your highest sub-score from each section across your test dates to create a super-score. We can not guarantee scores received after the application materials deadline will be used in our review. See which test dates we accept for our application deadlines here. SAT Essay or ACT Writing scores are not required. After you have applied, any additional test scores can be added on your wolfPAW account. We will not accept standardized test scores on your high school transcript. If you choose to enroll at NC State and opted for test scores to be considered during your application review, official SAT (code: 5496) or ACT (code: 3164) test scores will be required prior to enrollment. Complete the Essay Prompts You’ll choose an essay prompt from the list provided by Common App or Coalition App so you can share your story with us in 650 words or less. We also have some additional short answer questions to help us get to know you better. These responses will be included in your application. Required Short Answer Questions Explain why you selected the academic program(s) above and why you are interested in studying these at NC State. NC State University is committed to building a just and inclusive community, one that does not tolerate unjust or inhumane treatment, and that denounces it, clearly and loudly. Please describe what those words mean to you and how you will contribute to a more diverse and inclusive NC State environment. University Honors and Scholars Program If you are interested in being considered for NC State’s University Honors and Scholars Program, there are additional questions required with responses of no more than 350 words available on the admissions application or on your wolfPAW account after you apply. Learn more about admissions criteria for these programs here. Submit Your Transcript To complete your application, you must send an official high school transcript to our office. Your high school counselor can submit your transcript through Common App, Coalition App, slate.org or another secure sending service such as Naviance or Parchment. Students studying at participating public high schools in North Carolina can request official transcripts be sent to our office using CFNC. How To Be Competitive Learn what factors we take into consideration during application review and how to be a competitive first-year applicant. Credit Opportunities See how you may be provided college credit for courses and exams completed in high school using our transfer credit database. Early College Students View application options for North Carolina high school students studying at an early college. wolfPAW Already applied? Log in to wolfPAW to check your application status. High School Counselors and Community-Based Organizations High school counselors and CBO’s play a vital role in a student’s college selection and application processes. We are here to do everything we can to support you. Explore the resources After You Apply Check Your Email Two weeks after you submit your application to NC State, you will receive an email with credentials to log in to wolfPAW, your applicant portal. Here, you can check for missing items and stay up-to-date on the status of your application. We encourage you to check your email often, as we may email you about additional items needed to complete your application. Using your school-assigned email address? Sometimes our emails may be blocked by the server, so we recommend using a non-school email to receive our communications. Submit the FAFSA You don’t need to wait for an official admission decision to submit your FAFSA, and we encourage students to apply as soon as possible. Priority filing date for NC State: March 1 NC State school code: 002972 View Your Decision You will be notified of your admission decision on your wolfPAW account. If you completed your application on time and submitted all required materials by the deadline, you will receive a decision on the notification date corresponding to the application deadline for the semester you applied for. Types of Decisions Decision Timelines Early Action Deadline: November 1 Notification Date: January 30 Regular Decision Deadline: January 15 Notification Date: March 30 *International applicants will receive their decision on a rolling basis. See all deadlines Admit – Some students we are able to admit right away. Head to our admitted student page to learn about next steps for joining the Wolfpack family, a view the New Student Checklist here. Defer – When we review applications, we find some applicants who may benefit from the opportunity to provide improved fall grades before receiving a final decision in March. Waitlist – We are unable to admit all qualified students into our class. Some applicants are placed on the waitlist who we believe would be successful at NC State if space is available. Deny – Unfortunately, some students will not be considered competitive for first-year admission. We encourage denied applicants to consider applying to NC State in the future as a transfer applicant. Prepare to Apply Get to Know NC State Explore all the opportunities the Wolfpack community offers. Dive in Many factors go into choosing the right college for you. It’s never too early to start thinking about your future and creating a plan for success. We consider your academic record beginning with the ninth grade and encourage you to make the most of your time in high school by doing the following. Identify your academic interests – NC State offers 100+ majors and minors in a wide variety of academic fields. Explore your personal interests – Many times, your personal and academic interests influence each other. NC State is home to more than 600 student organizations to help you find your Wolfpack. Challenge yourself in the classroom – Schools offer a variety of curriculums, so as long as you meet the UNC minimum course requirements, we aren’t looking for specific courses. We encourage you to take challenging courses your school may offer. Pre-college resources Pre-College Programs We offer pre-college programs to help you prepare for college while also experiencing life at NC State. Find a program Planning for College Guide Your journey to college begins in high school. Use this college road map to navigate your road to success. Plan it out Parents and Families Services We’ve provided resources to help guide you and your family through the admissions process. Learn more Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.