Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Financial Aid Estimator The estimator is designed to help you learn if you might qualify for financial aid at Princeton. Please read the following introduction before using the estimator. Launch the Estimator How It Works After you answer the basic questions describing your family circumstances, the estimator will provide information about both the amount your family would be expected to contribute toward your college costs as well as the aid you could receive from Princeton. The estimator uses Princeton's own formula when determining the family contribution and applies our specific packaging policies (such as no required student loan) to determine the projected award. The current estimator demonstrates awards for the 2021-22 academic year. If your first year of college is further into the future, however, it can provide a starting point for understanding how Princeton’s aid program applies to your family. Net Price Calculator After you review the results of Princeton's aid estimator, you can see how financial aid and your family's contribution can be used to cover Princeton's charges. The net price calculator will help you get an idea of your family's "bottom line" obligations. Limitations The estimator is designed for families living in the United States and Canada. It will not provide accurate results for families residing outside of North America. Important Caveats The result you receive is not a commitment of an aid award. Although this estimator reflects Princeton's own aid practices (which may differ from other colleges), actual awards for admitted students are determined individually by the aid office. Professional judgment made on a case-by-case basis may result in variations from the standard calculations. Federal student aid eligibility is determined through a separate government methodology. Outside scholarships and employee tuition benefits will be considered part of the aid award. The term-time job and summer savings expectations are reduced first before replacing grant aid. The accuracy of the information you provide on the worksheet affects the accuracy of your estimated results. Your information will not be transmitted to Princeton or stored on this webpage. You should print a copy before you exit the estimator if you want to retain the results. Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746