Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site For Parents Resources for Exploring Yale Visit Yale View our tour and information session schedule, admissions office closings, and parking information. Please note that we often have very large crowds of visitors during the summer and over school breaks. Academic Opportunities Students choose from over 2,000 course offerings and 80+ departments. Most undergraduates choose a major at the end of sophomore year. Students typically register for four to five courses per semester. During “Shopping Period” at the beginning of each semester, students may visit classes before registering. Advising Yale students receive guidance from several advisors, each with a distinct role. A student’s Residential College Dean serves as his/her primary academic advisor. Each first-year is also assigned a College Adviser and a First-Year Counselor. Residential College Life All Yale undergraduates are randomly assigned to one of fourteen Residential Colleges and remain affiliated with their College for all four years. This system provides students with a small, built-in, diverse living community within the larger university. Each College has a dining hall, library, laundry facilities and more. Religious, Cultural, & Identity Organizations Dozens of campus ministries, cultural centers, and affinity groups encourage students to explore aspects of identity, culture and religion. The Peer Liaisons Program helps connect first-years with these on-campus communities and provides additional support during the transition to college. Health & Safety on Campus Yale takes every student’s health and personal safety very seriously. More than 500 emergency “blue phones” are strategically located around campus. Foot patrols, bike patrols, and shuttle busses are also present and available at all hours. The Yale Health Center is centrally located on campus and provides clinical care and a student infirmary. New Haven is also home to Yale-New Haven Hospital. Applying and Affording Affordability Yale will meet 100% of a family’s demonstrated financial need with an aid package that will not include loans. Families with a total gross income of less than $65,000 will not be expected to make a contribution towards their child’s Yale education. Families with annual incomes greater than $65,000 will pay a percentage of their income on a sliding scale. Use the Quick Cost Estimator to get a personalized financial aid estimate for your family in three minutes. Deadlines Yale applications are due either November 1 for Single Choice Early Action (also referred to as ‘Restrictive Early Action’) or January 2 for Regular Decision. Please also note our standardized test deadlines and remember that the registration deadline for the SAT and ACT is usually a month prior to the test date, so be sure to plan ahead. Application Instructions All of Yale’s application materials may be completed and submitted online. Yale also accepts some forms of supplementary material. Interviews are optional. Requesting Recommendations Your child will need to request letters of recommendation from two teachers and a guidance/college counselor. At many high schools, a student may invite teachers and their counselor to submit recommendations online. Students should check with their school guidance office for details, and be sure to give recommenders ample time to write and submit these letters. Advice to Candidates We have put together some advice for students applying to Yale and other highly selective schools including: What Yale Looks For, Advice on Selecting High School Courses, Advice for First-Generation College Students, Beyond College Rankings, Epilogue: After Colleges Accept You and more. QuestBridge Find resources to help your students navigate the unique QuestBridge process at Yale. QuestBridge is a program that links bright, motivated, high-achieving low-income students with educational and scholarship opportunities at some of the nation’s best colleges. Related Links Class Profile Virtual Tour Yale Events Near You Majors & Departments Frequently Asked Questions Yale Athletics Prospectus Open Yale Courses ROTC at Yale Common Application Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved