Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions You Belong With the Wolfpack Discover NC State We’re a leading public university where bold thinkers thrive and ideas become solutions. See what drives us #1 Best Public College for Your Money in North Carolina Money #3 Return On Investment Among North Carolina Colleges Payscale #7 Best Value Among U.S. Public Universities U.S. News & World Report Prepare to Apply Apply Deadlines FAQ Interested in NC State? Sign up to get email updates on all things admissions — from application deadlines to upcoming events. Email Get the latest Δ Connect With Us On Social Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Instagram Instagram YouTube YouTube I knew NC State was exactly where I belonged when I saw how I was contributing to something so much bigger than myself. Julia Koehler B.S. polymer and color chemistry, 2020 Tour Visit Our Campus NC State is a vibrant college community in the heart of Raleigh, North Carolina, one of the fastest-growing cities in America. Come explore Stop Video Meet Our Students Amplifying Female Athletes Alumna Arielle Chambers was named to Forbes’ 30 under 30 after founding one of the fastest-growing women’s online sports platforms. A Guiding Light Sophomore Devon Waterman puts his energy and positive attitude to work helping peers find job and internship opportunities. From Landslides to Asteroids 2021 Goldwater Scholar Jack Featherstone conducts research into the physics of phenomena on Earth and in outer space. Test-Optional for 2023 and 2024 Applicants NC State will be test-optional for the next two application cycles. Read the FAQ Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.