Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Chase Harvey Class of 2025 back Click to Close Bio Hello! My name is Chase and I am a '25 from South Carolina. I intend on exploring what the field of music can offer (whether that's the cognition of sound or exploring more interactive projects). When I'm not hanging out with friends or doing classwork, you can find me practicing tuba in The Hop. I'm involved in the Dartmouth College Wind Ensemble (DCWE), Dartmouth Symphony Orchestra (DSO), Dartmouth Chamber Orchestra (DCO), Friday Night Rock, and of course, this blog. Academic Program Music, Neuroscience Favorite Thing Right Now Giving music recommendations!! Hometown Greenville, South Carolina Pronouns he/him/his About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Chase Harvey back Click to Close Chase's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallHanover, NH Favorite Class: Marine Policy As someone who did not know the ins and outs of marine policy, I loved learning about aspects of the blue economy. This class encourages us to be aware of the human aspect of marine problems regarding coastal erosion, pollution, and climate change. Professor Webster is the coolest! WinterHanover, NH Favorite Class: From Beethoven to Now (Modern Classical Music) I could not recommend this class enough to anyone who goes to this school! Professor Beaudoin has truly influenced me as both a musician and a student. We learn the music from the 1800's to present day including famous composers like Tchaikovsky, but also music by Beyonce and even the music of Dartmouth's professors. This is much more than a music history class. It is a class about music, our lives, and exploring the concept of sonder through musical lens. An Eventful End to 22S Well, it is that time of the term again where everyone hides in the library for a few day, but I first had an amazing weekend to celebrate this term before I get started on my finals! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 06/1/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts 22s Spring Music DCWE Band Parents Finals concert concerts DCO performance performing Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Green Lights, Green Places, and Green Key The event of the year has finally happened: Green Key! As sad as I am to not be on campus for the next Green Key, I am incredibly excited to have two more of them! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/25/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Spring Friends green Green Key kyle Music weekend fun 22s Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Friday Fun at Dartmouth Honestly, there is no such thing as a normal Friday at Dartmouth, and I just had my most spontaneous and memorable day during my time at Dartmouth so far. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/20/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts green The Green camping woods Friday DCWE chess hammock fun Social Life Spring weather Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Branching Out Academically When I applied to college, I was dead set on studying only music and neuroscience. However, I now say go take that course that has nothing to do with your major and maybe find a new passion. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/12/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts academic academics class Classes ENVS sculpture art Studio art cs computer science Coding major minor academic planning marine policy Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Bringing Home to Dartmouth So you decided to move 1,000+ miles away from where you were born and raised your entire life? Me too. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/5/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Parents Spring family weekend Friends home Homesick homesickness Food Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Are You Visiting Dartmouth? So you've decided to visit Dartmouth? I mean it definitely feels quite out of the way, but definitely is totally worth it! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/28/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts tour campus life campus visit visiting campus visit what to do Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Becoming a Music Major Even though there is still plenty of time for me to decide upon my major, I have known for years that I wanted to major in music. However, you're probably thinking, "Hmm going to Dartmouth for music? That's weird." And yes! Yes, it is! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/20/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Music major Music Major Studying Classes D-Plan Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter An Updated Why Dartmouth Going cliff jumping into a River with people you just met. Almost stepping on a snake. Having your first snowfall. There's a lot more, but that's why Dartmouth. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/14/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Why Dartmouth Fall Winter Spring freshman fall First Year First Year Trips Friends Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Springing Into 22S Another 12 hours of somewhat tiring travel, here I am again... There definitely is something in the air here in Hanover. And it is refreshing Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/8/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Spring 22s cs art Music Film seminar first year seminar Tennis DWT birthdays ESCS Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Five Favorites of 22W I had a wild term filled with many adventures. I took some time to reflect on my term and celebrate the chaos! Below are my five favorites of the winter term! No. 1 Snowy Adventures Your first winter term at Dartmouth can definitely be an adventure (especially when you don’t come from a snowy place). From my first time ice skating to my first time skiing, this term has revolved around the icy terrain. If the snow looks threatening, trust me that you get used to it. Wearing several layers is your best friend during the winter term! Plus, it always is fun to go sledding. No. 2 Sculpture I took a sculpture class this term to see how I liked the studio art department! I made several big projects and spent dozens of hours in the studio this term. Although studio art classes are very fulfilling, I recommend only taking one when you know you will have time to be in the studio. I definitely will be sad when I don’t go to the studio almost every day next term, but maybe I will take more studio art classes soon. No. 3 Birthdays! It would be a gigantic understatement if I said no one had a birthday this term. Almost all of my friends had their birthday this term so there was a lot of celebration for our lives in general. From dances in the common rooms of our dorm buildings to going out to have cute dinners, there were constant celebrations. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 03/15/2022 at 9:00 AMAll List Posts Winter 22W Studio art art sculpture Friends friendship sledding Skiing birthdays DCWE Band Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Pages 1 2 3 next last Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback