Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Luke Grayson Class of 2025 back Click to Close Bio Welcome to the blog of an Englishman studying at Dartmouth—do take a look around! Hopefully, my blogs will provide you with an insight on life at Dartmouth, and specifically through the eyes of an international student. Dartmouth has a tonne to offer from the staggering natural beauty of its surroundings and stellar academic programs to the wonderful people you meet along the way. So stay a while, I'll make us cups of tea, and take a moment to discover life at the college on the hill. Academic Program Undecided Favorite Thing Right Now Hiking! Especially at sunrise! Hometown Seaham, England Pronouns he/him About Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Luke Grayson Greenkey: dancing in a field to internationally famous mucisians in Hanover! Dartmouth has too many traditions to name, but Greenkey is one of the best ones! Read on to find out about my experience this year! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/30/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts greenkey festival Dance Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Introducing a new sport: Basecap! This week I designed a new sport – read on to find out how this relates to life at Dartmouth! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/17/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Sports new game clubs Social Life Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter The Arts at Dartmouth – and having fun consuming them! The Arts at Dartmouth are awesome! We have all sorts going on around campus from dance shows to concerts – here are my experiences with them! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/10/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Dance performing arts student groups Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter From a night at the ball to sleeping in a cabin: events at Dartmouth! Dartmouth has a lot going on all the time – here is an insight into some of the cool events I've attended during my time here so far! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/4/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts formal party fun Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Testing Testing 1, 2, 3: Starting a Radio Show with my Friends Me and my friends decided to start a radio show... Here is how it went! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/27/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts clubs Extracurriculars radio Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter To all STEM people: take a theatre class sometime! The liberal arts system allows for a lot of freedoms – especially at Dartmouth! Here is how I've been taking advantage of that this term. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/21/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts theatre Dance performing arts student groups creative Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter The return of the warmth to campus + waiting to meet '26's! In this post I tackle being back on campus and my excitement for both spring and to meet the new class! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/16/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Spring fun Friends Admissions Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Oh you thought the work of getting into college was over? Now you have to choose! Applying to colleges is hard, but guess what else is? CHOOSING ONE! Read on to hear my perspectives on the topic. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/3/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Admissions committing prospective student Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Looking Back At My First Two Terms At Dartmouth My time here has flown by—in this blog I wanted to reflect on all I've been through, and how it feels to transition to my final freshman term at Dartmouth! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 03/12/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts campus life reflections memories Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter My Journey Through College Decisions This is a time of year in which our decisions have huge impact – which is scary! I want to reassure you, and perhaps give some handy tips in the college selection process! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 03/6/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Admissions campus life Decisions Regular Decision Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Pages 1 2 3 next last Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback