Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Beaver Nation - Your Path Starts Here Send Me Info From here, anything is possible Explore wherever your ideas and ambitions take you. Push yourself to the very edge of what’s known. Take on tough problems. And solve them. That’s what Beavers do. Oregon State University is home to Nobel Prize winners and National Champions. We’re up for the challenge and in it for a better world. You can be too. Twitter @BeaverVIP Instagram @BeaverVIP Facebook Oregon State University twitter instagram facebook youtube sonnenmair-la157_small.jpg Collaborative We’re better together We’re all standing on the shoulders of giants. It’s great to work with giants. april13osu2112_small.jpg Visionary Creatively leading the way, taking on issues If we can think it, we must see it, and when we see it, we must scrutinize it, share it or champion it. sonnenmair-wild1271_small.jpg Welcoming Friendly, open to all and enriched by difference. We’re only as good as the company we keep, so we seek out the very best in everyone. Loading... Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram