Skip to main content Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Connect Visit Apply Search Search Menu Menu Search for: Search Clear Search Close Search Our StudentsToggle Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus LifeToggle Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Connect Visit Apply Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Academic Possibilities Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Academic Possibilities Curriculum for the Curious There’s no right or wrong way to navigate the Duke academic experience within our two undergraduate schools—Trinity College of Arts & Sciences and Pratt School of Engineering. You can combine disciplines or delve into a specialized study. You can research, write, act, compete, create, calculate, or champion—because at Duke, we believe that growth comes from exploration. Academic Pillars The Duke Way of Thinking Thinking creatively to solve problems is both a gift and a learned skill. Duke’s academic philosophy helps develop innovation by encouraging you to shape your own experience, to think way outside the box, to practice what you’re learning outside the classroom, all over the world. Students make their way through West Campus during an afternoon class change. Academic Opportunities Trinity College of Arts & Sciences Pratt School of Engineering Focus Program Global Education Duke Kunshan Undergraduate Research Bass Connections Open Trinity College of Arts & Sciences AN EDUCATION DESIGNED FOR EXPLORATION Every Duke undergraduate student takes classes in Trinity College—it serves as Duke’s liberal arts core. Trinity College classes span the arts, humanities, natural sciences, and social sciences to encourage you to think deeply within disciplines and broadly across them, with a healthy balance of tradition and innovation. Trinity College of Arts & Sciences Arrow Right Created with Sketch. Patrick Douthit, aka 9th Wonder, teaches Introduction to Hip-Hop Production. Dance class in The Ark on East Campus. Duke undergraduate students in Bio 202 tour the Duke greenhouses. Pratt School of Engineering ENGINEERS WHO MAKE A DIFFERENCE As an engineer at Duke, you will learn to solve problems by combining all the best knowledge of every academic discipline. Most importantly, you will be inspired and equipped to make a difference in the world by generating creative solutions to complex problems. Pratt School of Engineering Arrow Right Created with Sketch. Two Duke students race in a self-build motor car. Academic Paths Majors, Minors & Certificates Duke University offers 53 majors, 52 minors and 23 certificates. With the ability to create combinations of the three, you have 437,989 unique academic combinations available. Majors African & African American Studies Art History Asian and Middle Eastern Studies Biology Biomedical Engineering* Biophysics Brazilian and Global Portuguese Studies Chemistry Civil Engineering* Classical Civilization Classical Languages Computer Science Cultural Anthropology Dance Earth and Climate Sciences Economics Electrical and Computer Engineering* English Environmental Engineering* Environmental Sciences Environmental Sciences and Policy Evolutionary Anthropology French Studies Gender, Sexuality, and Feminist Studies German Global Cultural Studies Global Health** History Interdepartmental Major Interdisciplinary Engineering & Applied Science (IDEAS) International Comparative Studies Italian Studies Linguistics Marine Science & Conservation Mathematics Mechanical Engineering* Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Neuroscience Philosophy Physics Political Science Program II (self-designed degree, BA or BS) Psychology Public Policy Studies Religious Studies Romance Studies Russian Slavic and Eurasian Studies Sociology Spanish, Latin American, and Latino/a Studies Statistical Science Theater Studies Visual Arts Visual and Media Studies **Only available as a second major. Minors African & African American Studies Art History Asian and Middle Eastern Studies Biology Brazilian and Global Portuguese Studies Chemistry Cinematic Arts Classical Archaeology Classical Civilization Computational Biology and Bioinformatics Computer Science Creative Writing Cultural Anthropology Dance Earth and Climate Sciences Economics Education Electrical and Computer Engineering Energy Engineering* English Environmental Sciences and Policy Evolutionary Anthropology Finance French Studies Gender, Sexuality, and Feminist Studies German Global Cultural Studies Global Health Greek History Inequality Studies Italian Studies Latin Linguistics Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence Marine Science & Conservation Mathematics Medical Sociology Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Musical Theater Neuroscience Philosophy Photography Physics Polish Culture and Language Political Science Psychology Religious Studies Russian Language and Culture Russian Literature in Translation Sociology Spanish Studies Statistical Science Theater Studies Turkish Language and Culture Visual Arts Visual and Media Studies Certificates A certificate is an interdisciplinary program of study similar in its requirements to a minor. Aerospace Engineering* Architectural Engineering* Child Policy Research Civic Engagement & Social Change Decision Sciences Digital Intelligence Documentary Studies East Asian Studies Energy and the Environment Global Development Engineering* Human Rights Information Science + Information Studies Innovation & Entrepreneurship Jewish Studies Latin American Studies Latino / Latina Studies in the Global South Markets & Management Studies Materials Science & Engineering Philosophy, Politics and Economics Policy Journalism and Media Studies Science & the Public Study of Ethics Sustainability Engagement *Only offered to students pursuing an engineering degree from the Pratt School of Engineering. **Only available as a second major. Academic Possibilities 83% of Duke students pursue more than one major Create Your Own Degree Program Program II an individualized degree program where students design their major Learn More Undergraduate Research A COMMUNITY THAT NEVER STOPS QUESTIONING As one of the country’s premier research institutions, Duke encourages original inquiry and independent thought. In fact, our undergraduate students have made major research discoveries and pioneered new directions of thought across disciplines—from art history to economics to biology. As an undergraduate, research can complement your coursework, help you explore career options, and allow you to establish meaningful relationships with faculty and peers. Research Opportunities 53% undergraduates graduate with research experience Research Funding $800 million spent on Duke research each year International Opportunities DUKE IN THE WORLD With 200+ programs to choose from across every subject area, more than half of Duke students study away before they graduate. Others go global for service, research, and interdisciplinary investigation through programs like DukeEngage, Duke Immerse, Bass Connections, and Duke Engineers for International Development. Our Global Education Office advisors are here to help you plan and prepare for an international experiential education. Service 393 DukeEngage participants in 2019 Global Learning 43 Duke-In programs taught by Duke faculty Research 249 Bass Connections partnerships across 33 countries Duke students on the campus of New College in Oxford, England. IMMERSIVE OPPORTUNITIES DukeEngage Duke-In Programs Duke Immerse Duke Marine Lab Duke Engineers for International Development Open Our Students 01 Campus Life 02 Financial Support 03 Join Our Mailing List Sign Up Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support © DUKE.EDU 2022 Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Disable Animations