Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site FROST Home FROST Home FROST Admissions FROST Events About Us Meet the Dean The Frost Method Uniquely Frost Reasons to Apply Ensembles Top Alumni Community & Summer Programs Student Resources Undergraduate How to Apply Degree Programs Audition Requirements Instrument/Program Requirements Scholarships & Financial Support FAQs Graduate How to Apply Degree Programs Audition Requirements Scholarships & Financial Support Frost Online FAQs Faculty By Instrument By Program Department Chairs Visit Facilties Take a Tour Schedule a Visit Arriving at UM Directions & Parking Life in Miami Concert Calendar Contact Us Request Information Staff About Us Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Visit Contact Us Search How to Apply Audition Requirements Scholarships and Financial Support Undergraduate Degree Programs Instrument/Program Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Request Information Current Students Foote Fellows College Fairs About Us Meet the Dean The Frost Method Uniquely Frost Reasons to Apply Ensembles Top Alumni Community & Summer Programs Student Resources Undergraduate How to Apply Degree Programs Audition Requirements Instrument/Program Requirements Scholarships & Financial Support FAQs Graduate How to Apply Degree Programs Audition Requirements Scholarships & Financial Support Frost Online FAQs Faculty By Instrument By Program Department Chairs Visit Facilties Take a Tour Schedule a Visit Arriving at UM Directions & Parking Life in Miami Concert Calendar Contact Us Request Information Staff FROST Home FROST Home FROST Admissions FROST Events How to Apply Audition Requirements Scholarships and Financial Support Undergraduate Degree Programs Instrument/Program Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Request Information Current Students Foote Fellows College Fairs FROST Home Undergraduate How to Apply - Undergraduate AAA How to Apply - Undergraduate How to Apply Audition Requirements Scholarships and Financial Support Undergraduate Degree Programs Instrument/Program Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Request Information Current Students Foote Fellows College Fairs GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Domestic/International Freshmen and Transfer Applicants Deadline Early Action November 1 Regular Decision and Transfer December 1 Steps to Apply Open All Tabs Apply - University of Miami First, submit your Common Application for the University of Miami. We recommend that you submit your Common Application one month prior to the posted admissions deadlines to ensure a smooth submission process of all required materials. You must select a Frost School of Music program as your major in order to access the supplemental music application. Applicants to the Frost School of Music who are not admitted to this program and did not indicate a second-choice major on their application will not be considered for admission to any other academic program at the University of Miami. Applicants may not add a second-choice major after submitting their application to the University of Miami. Apply - Frost School of Music Next, log into your University of Miami applicant portal to set-up access. After submitting your application, please allow five to seven business days for the University of Miami to receive it. Upon receipt, we will send you an acknowledgment email with instructions on how to log in to the Applicant Portal to track your application. Upload your prescreening (required for all applicants) Then, access the Frost School of Music supplemental application and prescreen upload from your University of Miami applicant portal. Links to the Frost application and to the video/portfolio upload are in your applicant portal checklist. Your email and password for the applicant portal are the same login credentials you'll use to access the Frost supplemental application. Upload your portfolio Portfolios are required for some programs. Required for Composition, Media Scoring & Production, and Music Engineering Technology applicants. In addition to the portfolio, applicants to the three programs mentioned above must follow the prescreen/audition requirements for their primary instrument/voice in one of the following genres: Classical, Contemporary, or Jazz. Supplemental portfolios for these 3 programs are NOT the same as prescreening requirements related to your musicianship skills on your instrument/voice. Check out our video below with all the details on how to apply! Admission Requirements - All Applicants Open All Tabs Deadlines Start the process of applying well in advance in order to complete all the steps by the deadline. Admission is for the fall term only. Early Action deadline is November 1st. Early Action applicants, if approved, must audition on campus on the December audition date. Regular Decision deadline is December 1st. Regular Decision applicants, if approved, audition in February. Transfer application priority deadline is December 1st. Transfer applicants, if approved, audition in February. Prescreening All applicants must submit prescreen videos that meet the requirements for the primary instrument/voice. Confirmation emails and invitations to audition will be sent as soon as possible after a review of your prescreen. Do not make travel arrangements until you receive your confirmation. Audition Auditions are required for all applicants. Virtual auditions will require approval from the Frost School of Music Admissions Office. For more information, please contact us at admission.music@miami.edu. Portfolio Portfolios are required for some programs. Required for Composition, Media Scoring & Production, and Music Engineering Technology applicants. In addition to the portfolio, applicants to the three programs mentioned above must follow the prescreen/audition requirements for their primary instrument/voice in one of the following genres: Classical, Contemporary, or Jazz. Supplemental portfolios for these 3 programs are NOT the same as prescreening requirements related to your musicianship skills on your instrument/voice. Letter of Recommendation 1 supplemental music specific Letter of Recommendation can be submitted, but it is optional. Submit along with your CommonApp or send to: mydocuments@miami.edu. Supplemental Application Essay Frost School of Music supplemental application essay: Write a short (2-3 paragraph) essay about what is distinctly appealing to you about the Frost degree program to which you're applying. Optional: At Frost, we will push you beyond your comfort zone; what genre of music would you find the most difficult to play, sing, or compose for, and why? Guidelines All students must be recommended for admission to the Frost School of Music by the Faculty Audition Committee. The admission decision is a joint decision made by the University Office of Undergraduate Admission and the Frost School of Music. Applicants must complete an audition while demonstrating that they are academically admissible candidates. Applicants must submit the UM Application, the Frost School of Music supplemental application, and all required documents for the Office of Undergraduate Admission by their respective deadlines. If an applicant fails to submit all required documentation, the application will be withdrawn from consideration for both the Frost School and the University of Miami. Please check your University of Miami Applicant Portal regularly to track your application and document status. Early Action and Regular Decision Open All Tabs Early Action The Early Action deadline is November 1st. All Early Action applicants must submit prescreening videos meeting the requirements for their instrument/voice along with their Frost supplemental application by November 1st*. Early Action is for the most academically competitive students admitted to the freshman class. Applicants who wish to be considered for the University of Miami premier scholarships should apply Early Action and submit all required materials for both the university and the Frost School by the deadline. Early Action applicants will also be considered for Frost School of Music merit scholarships as well as need-based aid if they apply. Early Action decisions are released in late January. *Note: Historically, a large percentage of students who apply Early Action to the Frost School of Music are deferred to Regular Decision to be considered with the larger Frost School of Music applicant pool. Students who are deferred will be notified of their deferral in December and will receive a final admission decision in mid-to-late March. Regular Decision The Regular Decision deadline is December 1st. All Regular Decision applicants must submit prescreening videos meeting the requirements for their instrument/voice along with their Frost supplemental application by December 1st. Regular Decision applicants will be considered for both academic and music merit scholarships as well as need-baised aid if they apply. Regular Decision applicants will receive their admission decision in mid-to-late March for both the Frost School of Music and the University of Miami. Transfer Students Open All Tabs Transfer Admission/Credits Transfer applicants follow the same deadlines and procedures as freshmen outlined for Regular Decision applicants above. The application priority deadline is December 1st. Transfers are not eligible for Early Action. Transfer applicants must have a 3.0 GPA or higher for consideration. If transfer applicants do not have 30 credit hours we will wait for spring grades to make a decision. Credit may be granted for academic classes in which a student received a grade of C or better at an accredited institution, however, not all classes may count toward degree requirements. After a student has passed the audition and has been admitted to the University, the University Office of Admission evaluates the transcript and determines the University of Miami equivalents. After matriculation and prior to orientation, the Frost School of Music Office of Undergraduate Studies will evaluate which courses meet degree requirements. Every effort will be made to utilize as many courses as possible. However, transfer students should be aware that the University of Miami general studies program is unique and therefore some courses may be transferred to the university, but will not count toward a specific degree requirement. The Frost School of Music accepts music theory courses from accredited institutions, however, a music theory placement exam may be utilized to determine the appropriate level of theory and aural skills. The applied faculty will determine the level of study on the instrument or voice based on the jury exam at the end of the first semester. Transfer applicants should carefully consider their individual situation when evaluating the option to apply as a transfer. In some cases, residency requirements and credit hour restrictions may not make it beneficial to transfer and still complete a degree in a timely manner. It may be wiser to consider the Frost School for a graduate degree. Click below for the Undergraduate Admission Transfer Application Steps. More Information Internal Univerity of Miami Transfers Internal transfers apply online. Contact the Frost School of Music Office of Admission for a link to the application. admission.music@miami.edu The application priority deadline is December 1st. Internal transfers are not eligible for Early Action. Upload prescreen videos for your instrument/voice (required of all applicants). Upload a supplemental portfolio if applying to: Composition, Media Scoring & Production, Music Engineering Technology. Internal transfers must have a 3.0 GPA or higher for consideration. If internal transfer applicants do not have 30 credit hours we will wait for spring grades to make a decision. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Frost School of Music Music Administration Center (MAC) 5503 San Amaro Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-6168 305-284-6168 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit UM Campus Map Frost Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices