Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Tour Visit Apply × Close Menu Affordability at TU Apply Apply First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Graduate Applicants Law Applicants Other Students Credit By Exam Financial Aid Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Free Application for Federal Student Aid Visit Campus Visit Campus Academic Webinars Plan Your Individual Visit Preview TU Group Visits University Ambassadors Area Hotels Directions to Campus Maps Explore Tulsa Virtual Tour Special Programs Special Programs Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars Student Life Student Life International Student Services Housing & Dining Student Organizations Campus Recreation Career Services Health Center Student Accessibility New Student Programs Office of Student Affairs Find Your Admission Counselor Request Information Quick Links News Events Calendar Maps Athletics Contact TU Information For... Future Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Veteran Students Undergraduate Students International Students Graduate Students Law Students Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How do I interview for admission? Where is the new student checklist? How do I schedule a visit? What majors are offered? How much does TU cost? How can I transfer to TU? Close Search Link to site home page Office of Admission > Transfer Frequently Asked Questions Transfer Frequently Asked Questions TRANSFER ADMISSION Transfer Application Requirements Transfer Scholarships and Financial Aid Transfer from Tulsa Community College (TCC) Transfer Admission Counselors Transfer Frequently Asked Questions Request Information Transfer Admission Guide You have questions, we have answers. Use the topics below to get answers to frequently asked questions. If you need further assistance, please contact the Office of Admission at admission@utulsa.edu or by calling 918-631-2307 or 800-331-3050. Application and Requirements Who is a transfer student? Learners who have taken or enrolled in college courses after their high school graduation. Am I a transfer student if I graduate high school with an associate’s degree? No, learners entering college directly after high school graduation are considered freshman applicants. Taking college courses post-high school graduation classifies a student as a transfer student. Do I have to provide all my transcripts from every school? Yes. TU must have an official copy of each transcript showing college credit to consider you for an admission decision. To be considered an official transcript, a transcript must be sent directly from the institution or through a secure transcript delivery service. Electronic transcripts can be sent to apply@utulsa.edu or by mail to Office of Admission, 800 S Tucker Drive, Tulsa, OK, 74114. Do I need to submit test scores? Due to COVID-19, test scores for any undergraduate applicant are optional. Is there a minimum GPA for me to transfer? TU Admission conducts a complete or holistic application review when considering applicants for admission. Therefore, we do not have set GPA minimums. However, we recommend a college GPA of at least 2.75. How do I send you my transcripts? You should request that your official transcript(s) be sent to the TU Office of Admission by contacting the Office of the Registrar at all your previously attended institutions. Electronic transcripts are ideal but must be sent directly from the school to TU. Official electronic transcripts can be sent to apply@utulsa.edu or through an electronic delivery service. Transcripts that are delivered or mailed by the student (even in sealed envelopes) will not be considered official. Mailed transcripts can be sent to Office of Admission, 800 S Tucker Drive, Tulsa, OK 74104. What is the difference between an official and unofficial transcript? An official transcript must be sent directly to TU from the previously attended institution. It cannot be given to the student to pass along, even in a sealed envelope. Transcripts emailed from another institution’s registrar or submitted through an official transcript service (like Common App or Parchment) are considered official. When is the best time to apply? The TU application for admission opens in July for the upcoming Spring and Fall terms. For example, the Spring 2021 and Fall 2021 application opened in July 2020. What if I did not complete my high school diploma or GED? In order to be eligible for admission at TU, you must have a high school diploma or GED. Do I have to wait until all my course work at my community college is complete before I apply? No, you can apply with classes in progress. Please contact a TU Transfer Admission Counselor as soon as you are considering transferring. Will I be required to live on campus? View the Housing & Dining Requirement for details. Do you offer programs with only online or night classes? No, we currently do not offer entire programs that are online or night classes. Financial Aid & Scholarships Do you offer scholarships? Yes! All transfer students are considered for scholarships at the time of admission, and a large majority of transfer applicants receive an academic scholarship. There is not a separate application for academic scholarships. Do you have a Phi Theta Kappa Scholarship? Yes! PTK members who have a 3.5 minimum GPA and at least 30 hours of college credit are eligible for the Phi Theta Kappa Scholarship of $24,000 per year. Do you offer scholarships for part-time students? No. Scholarship recipients must be full-time to receive scholarships. How do I get financial aid if I’m attending TCC and a four-year at the same time? Students may sign a consortium agreement which allows students to take courses at both TCC and TU and receive full financial aid. Visit with your Financial Aid Counselor for more details. Do my scholarships come with me? What happens to my financial aid when I transfer? Institutional aid does not transfer with you; you will reapply for scholarships and financial aid with TU. However, it is likely that outside scholarships will be applied towards your TU students. Students should check with those scholarship administrators directly to determine this. To be considered for need-based aid, complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). If you have already submitted a FAFSA, you can add TU to the list of schools using the TU’s school code 003185. Take a look at our Net Price Calculator to get an idea of what cost to expect. Does my Tulsa Achieves, Oklahoma’s promise, OTAG, etc., follow me? Oklahoma Promise can be applied at TU. Tulsa Achieves is specific to TCC, but we offer a Tulsa Achieves academic scholarship. How do I move my VA benefits? Our Veteran Student Services can assist you with your VA benefits. We also have the Yellow Ribbon program. More information about TU Student Veterans and VA benefits can be found online here. I’m a DACA student. Can I still apply and be eligible for scholarships? DACA students are welcome to apply to TU and will be considered for scholarships automatically. DACA students are required to submit the same materials as US citizens to be considered for admission. Transfer Credit How can I find out if my course will transfer? Can you help me plan my credits to transfer in a year or two? View our course equivalency database to find your college transfer credits and the TU class equivalency. If a course is not listed, reach out to the Office of the Registrar at TU for a transfer credit evaluation at transfer-evals@utulsa.edu. How many credits do I have to earn at the four-year school to graduate with my bachelor’s? To graduate with a TU bachelor’s degree, you must earn your last 45 degree requirement hours at TU. When should students apply for financial aid? We recommend that a student applies for financial aid as soon as they are able. The FAFSA opens in October for the upcoming calendar year. Should I get my associates degree before transferring? Credits are evaluated on a class basis. One scholarship does not require an associate’s degree – the TCC Honors Scholarship. Check out our list of scholarships on the website. Does my AAS transfer the way that an AA or AS does? TU will evaluate your previously completed courses individually without making a special distinction if you completed an AAS, AA or AS. Can I do a Reverse Transfer? Yes! Be sure to check with your current institution on their requirements. Does my GPA transfer? Courses that transfer to TU will appear on your TU transcript, but grades will not appear, nor will they figure into your TU GPA. Will my military, CLEET, POST, and other PLA credit transfer? These courses do not transfer to TU. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT