Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Social Sciences Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually Professor Thalia Wheatley: "We are a social species and live our lives connected to everybody else. If we want to understand how the human brain works, then we need to understand how brains work in combination—how minds shape each other." Dartmouth social science faculty present to Federal Reserve Chairs and discover new fossils of human ancestors. And undergraduates play a key role in the research. But research also plays a key role for undergraduates: whether you’re using the MRI scanner dedicated to collaborative work between undergraduates and faculty or exploring economic transitions in Poland, close access to cutting edge research and innovative faculty defines Dartmouth’s immersive, experiential approach to understanding and solving human challenges. Our Faculty of Social Sciences Say See Another Quote Amie Thomasson "I aim to make use of this appointment (the Stone Professorship) to help develop my recent work into a book that reconceives of philosophy along these lines: as a tool for evaluating and transforming how we think and speak about the world. This approach also works well in motivating students to care about their work in philosophy." Learn more about Amie Thomasson, the Daniel P. Stone Professor of Intellectual and Moral Philosophy Elizabeth Cascio “As a researcher, I’ve devoted significant time to generating some of the ‘evidence’ behind evidenced-based policymaking on the care and education of young children. I’ve found it gratifying to see that evidence occasionally cited by policymakers. But it’s [another thing entirely] to have the opportunity to translate the evidence into a concrete policy proposal.” Learn more about Elizabeth Cascio, Associate Professor of Economics Sienna Craig “The worlds of healing across cultures, the meanings people ascribe to illness, and the social lives of medicines fascinate me. I am also deeply curious about how communities navigate processes of migration and social change.” Learn more about Sienna Craig, Associate Professor, Department of Anthropology, Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program, Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Program Cool Classes Dartmouth creates a rich academic culture imbued with critical thinking and creativity, one that promotes experimentation, reflection, learning, and leadership. But don't take our word for it. We asked our students to tell us about some of their social sciences courses. Academics at DartmouthResearch at Dartmouth Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. EDUC 20: Education Issues in Contemporary Society A Department of Education Course This class truly changed my life. I knew I was interested in education/policy before Dartmouth, but this opened my eyes to the complex world of American education. It was so dynamic, with fascinating, relevant readings and interesting lectures from Professor Wheelan (who is, to put it mildly, a ROCK STAR!). He had us write policy memos, he brought in guest speakers and had us to his house for dinner. I want to pursue a career in education because of this class and Professor Wheelan! GEOG 15: Food and Power A department of geography course This course, like many geography courses, is an interesting mix of economics, history, anthropology, and other social sciences. We learned about global food systems, food inequity, agriculture’s role in capitalism, and food justice movements. We did a group shopping project in which we had to shop for a family of four based on a budget including SNAP benefits. And at the end of the term, we got to visit a local community supported agriculture (CSA) farm! HIST 96.25: World War II in the Pacific: 1931-1945 A Department of History Course This was an unbelievable academic experience of entirely student-led discussion. We looked at historiographical questions and debated, reading authors who used the same sources and argued different interpretations. What made it so rewarding was the intense engagement of and inspiration from the other students. It was amazing to engage with one topic independently for an entire term while still having the guidance of the class and Professor Miller. This class made me want to write a thesis. ANTH 057 - Origins of Inequality A Department of Anthropology Course I had never thought that there would be so much literature solely dedicated to why there is social hierarchy and inequality in our modern society. This sociopolitical phenomenon seemed natural to me, and it was really eye-opening to see all of the different theories for why much of the world no longer has an egalitarian social system. This class gave me a whole new perspective on modern life. HIST 11: Age of the American Revolution A Department of History Course The best class I have taken at Dartmouth (so far!) is this one, taught by Professor Musselwhite. I learned about one of my favorite parts of history, the creation of our nation. I’m also pretty obsessed with George Washington, so I love that we dug into his history to learn more about who he was and why he was so important in the story of America. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Social Science Alumni Nobel laureates, government leaders, judges, scientists, writers, scholars, journalists, entertainers-Dartmouth alumni have distinguished themselves in all fields. Here are some notable alumni in the social sciences making a difference in the world. Learn More About Our Alumni Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Eric Fanning ’90 Major: History At Dartmouth, Eric Fanning was awarded Dartmouth’s Barrett Cup as “the senior man who shows the greatest promise of becoming a factor in the outside world.” That prediction proved prophetic, as Eric quickly rose through the ranks of the Department of Defense, where he held positions in the Army, Navy, and Air Force. In 2015, he was named the 22nd Secretary of the Army, and was the first openly gay person to hold that position. Abbey D’Agostino ’14, HON’17 Major: Psychology The most decorated Ivy League athlete of all time in track and field and cross country running, Abbey D’Agostino won seven NCAA titles while studying psychology at Dartmouth. At the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio, she stunned the world with a display of sportsmanship. When she and another runner both fell, they helped each other to their feet and finished the race together. Clark Moore ’13 Major: History For Clark Moore ’13, singing with the a capella group the Dartmouth Aires proved a launch pad to an entertainment career. When the Aires performed on NBC’s The Sing-Off, Clark’s vocal and acrobatics turned heads – including those of casting directors and agents. He’s since appeared on Glee, Turn, and Love, Simon. At Dartmouth, he majored in history while singing, acting, dancing, and writing for a number of student groups, and studied abroad in London. Michael Arad ’91 Major: Government In 2004, Michael Arad’s vision of the National September 11 Memorial at the World Trade Center site, titled Reflecting Absence, was selected from 5,200 submissions, and the memorial was opened on September 11, 2011. A native of Israel, Michael studied government at Dartmouth before going on to architecture school. Brian Kelly ’83 Major: Government After honing his reasoning skills as a government major at Dartmouth, Brian Kelly went on to become a renowned federal prosecutor, best known for his work sending notorious Boston mobster James “Whitey” Bulger to prison. He is now a partner and litigator at Boston law firm Nixon Peabody LLP. Kyle Hendricks ’12 Major: Economics During his senior year of high school, the Los Angeles Angels offered Kyle Hendricks a spot in the organization. Instead, Kyle chose to go to Dartmouth, determined to get a top-tier education without sacrificing his Major League dreams. Kyle fulfilled both goals – he graduated with a major in economics and is now a pitcher for the Chicago Cubs. In 2016, he helped to lead the team to its first World Series victory since 1945. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Study the Social Sciences Off Campus Select a Map Click to Open Study the Social Sciences Off Campus Basecamp to the World At Dartmouth, we have taken the traditional study abroad model, erased its boundaries, and expanded its parameters. Study abroad here is not an isolated semester in another country. Arranged through Dartmouth's Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education, these powerful learning experiences are enhanced through faculty mentorship. The curriculum and structure of the school year allow students to follow their research around the world. Dartmouth's Global Impact Click to stop viewing map. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog A Glimpse into a Sophomore's Spring Courses Ever wonder what a typical Dartmouth student's classes look like? Every student's schedule is different, but here's a peek into the four courses I'm taking this term! Read More Sydney Wuu 2024 Interviewing A Dartmouth Professor As Dartmouth prepares to welcome the incoming Class of 2026 this fall, I was inspired to interview Professor Doyle and understand what makes Dartmouth such a unique and exciting community from a professor's perspective. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Teacher Appreciation! As part of the Teacher Appreciation Week, I want to thank all the teachers who helped me transition to college and the exceptional professors who welcomed me into their classrooms at Dartmouth. Read More Eda Naz Gokdemir 2025 How I Chose My Double Major! Compared to my high school, Dartmouth offered so many new subjects I'd never even studied before. Here's how I found my double major! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 When You Know, You Know Here are the academic opportunities that made me realize Dartmouth was the right fit for me after all. Read More Eda Naz Gokdemir 2025 Taking A Gap Year Before College Taking a gap year before college can be a transformative learning experience. If you're wondering what you could do during a gap year, I'd love to share my gap year experience with you! Read More Chidera Duru 2025 My Language Documentation Class in Hilo, Hawaiʻi! During my junior winter, I took LING 54: Language Documentation while abroad in Hilo, Hawaiʻi, where we worked with the Satawalese language! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Library Hopping: My Favorite Spots As finals week was slowly coming closer, I found myself spending a lot of time in the library. Here's my breakdown of some of my favorite places I went library hopping. Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 What is my Favorite Class this Term? I wanted to discuss which class I regard as my favorite as well as my supporting rationale! Read More Daniel Kang 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Jump To: Major Click to Open Anthropology Economics Education Geography Government History Psychological and Brain Sciences Neuroscience Sociology Back to top chevrons up Anthropology Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Jeremy DeSilva Learns Secrets From Human Ancestors' Fossils What does it mean to be human? A multidimensional study of humankind integrating many perspectives on human diversity into a single discipline, anthropology examines this question in social scientific, biocultural, and humanistic terms. By studying how people adapt to environments, create complex cultural systems, and weather political-economic transitions in the past and present, we explore the human condition. Dartmouth's Department of Anthropology offers a four-field program of study in archaeology, biological anthropology, cultural anthropology, and linguistic anthropology to contribute to a global picture of the human experience. Crossing boundaries that have separated the humanities and sciences, anthropology students at Dartmouth examine both the organic evolution of our biological family and the variety and unity of peoples, societies, and cultures worldwide and across millennia. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Economics Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Immersion Experience in Poland Brings Economic Policy to Life Economics studies how societies use scarce resources to produce valuable commodities for distribution among different people, how people use resources and respond to incentives, and how individuals and groups of people make decisions. Economics helps us understand historical trends, interpret contemporary issues, and make predictions about the future. At Dartmouth, economics students take courses in finance, international economics, macroeconomics, competition and strategy, labor economics, development economics, and public economics. Faculty and students work together to use the tools and discipline of economics to understand pressing social issues. Students who take courses in Dartmouth’s Economics Department are introduced to a unique way of asking questions and examining problems; thus, they develop their analytical thinking skills in the best tradition of the liberal arts. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Education Minor in Education Featured Program News Undergraduates Design Science Kits for Middle Schoolers The study of education explores the complex connections between human development, learning, and teaching. It impacts the lives of children and adults, as well as any professional or personal pursuit that involves learning and teaching. One of the main goals of the Department of Education at Dartmouth is to begin bridging the gaps among developmental and educational research, practice, and policy. The six-course education minor is designed to help students build and use an integrated, multilevel understanding of learning and development based on critical analysis of theory, policy, and empirical data from education, neuroscience, and psychology. Students taking courses in education at Dartmouth explore how children grow, acquire language, think, reason, learn a variety of skills and knowledge, and how they conceptualize their social, emotional, and moral worlds. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Minor Requirements Geography Bachelor of Arts Geographers study the material and symbolic transformation of the earth in relationship to both human and natural processes. In keeping with contemporary global shifts in culture, the environment, politics and economics, the boundaries of the geographic discipline are dynamic. Dartmouth College houses the only Geography Department in the Ivy League, and students at Dartmouth study Geography as both a natural science and a social science. Human geography (a social science) is concerned especially with the political, economic, social, and cultural processes and resource practices that give definition to particular places and that are affected by them. Physical geography (a natural science) focuses on the earth systems that create the natural environment, such as weather, soils, biogeography, and earth sculpting processes. Geography courses at Dartmouth address a range of these key issues. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Government Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Students Get an Inside View of U.S. Military Command Centers Aristotle described political science as the overarching science, arguing that it helps us understand who we are as human beings and how we can live happy and productive lives in communities. Dartmouth’s Department of Government maintains the ancient Greek fascination with the nature of governance at every level of social interaction. Courses in Government direct students’ attention to communal failures and to the divisions, conflicts, and wars that result. Students and faculty explore these issues from diverse perspectives. They analyze texts, conduct surveys, experiments, interviews, and case studies, and collect and analyze quantitative data to understand the political world. The Department’s commitment to the idea that outstanding scholarship and teaching are complementary and mutually reinforcing sees students learning from faculty who are prominent researchers in their field. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements History Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Student Tells the Story of Dartmouth’s First Female Tenured Professor History helps students appreciate their place within the world, and teaches them about who they are and what makes them tick. Not surprisingly, History achieves special relevance during periods of global uncertainty, as young people grapple with the confusing and troubling events of the day. History traditionally has stood at the heart of Dartmouth's emphasis on the liberal arts. The curriculum of the Dartmouth History Department—international in its reach and deep in its chronological perspective—prepares future citizens and leaders with a deep understanding of the world in which they live. Some history department alumni have pursued advanced degrees and taught at the world’s most prestigious universities, but more pursue careers in other occupations. Wherever they end up, our graduates find value in what they learned here. We know this because they stay in touch and tell us so. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Psychological and Brain Sciences Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Analysis Links Violent Video Games to Increased Aggression Psychological science is traditionally defined as the study of behavior, neuroscience as the study of the nervous system. Psychology studies observable behavior and develops models of underlying cognitive, affective, and physiological processes, while neuroscience examines questions on how the brain gives rise to the mind, how and where are memories stored, and other topics involving the brain and nervous system. Dartmouth’s Department of Psychological and Brain Science offers majors and minors in both psychology and neuroscience. Psychology coursework includes classes in social interaction, sensation and perception, the physiological basis of behavior, cognition, learning, and behavioral disorders. Students in Neuroscience gain experience with ever-changing neuroscience research methods through laboratory work, and they also have the opportunity to engage in independent research with faculty. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Neuroscience Bachelor of Arts Featured Program News Video: Studying Face Blindness to Better Understand the Brain How does the brain give rise to the mind? How and where are memories stored? What is the biological basis of consciousness? What is the neural basis of decision making? How are mental illnesses related to changes in brain function? These are just a few of the intriguing and unresolved questions in the field of neuroscience. Neuroscience is a broad and interdisciplinary subject, drawing from psychology and biology, as well as computer science, chemistry, engineering, medicine, and other fields. Thus, the neuroscience curriculum at Dartmouth provides breadth and depth in the core areas of neuroscience. Neuroscience is a rapidly changing field, and those changes are driven by intensive research. Dartmouth students in neuroscience gain experience in research methods through laboratory work and have the opportunity to engage in independent research in conjunction with a faculty mentor. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Sociology Bachelor of Arts The world is constantly confronted with public policy issues that are essentially social in character. Sociological analyses provide a coherent yet diverse framework for examining these issues and for understanding the many perspectives involved in attempting to solve social problems. Students who take courses in Dartmouth’s Sociology Department are introduced to a unique way of asking questions, examining problems, and viewing the world. Sociological questions explore interpersonal interaction and conflict and study the behavior of groups, organizations, institutions, industries, social movements, and nation states. It is about learning analytical thinking in the best tradition of the liberal arts, providing Dartmouth students with a perspective that helps them better understand their day-to-day lives. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback