Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Admissions Fast Facts As high school seniors and college transfer students prepare for admission to NC State, they may find it helpful to see how they compare to the current student body and previous first-year and transfer classes. The following resources provide fast facts for students as they transition their studies to NC State. 36,000+ students undergraduate and graduate 100+ majors offered to undergraduate students 35 students average class size There’s a community spirit – we’re all moving forward, and we’re all getting to our goals together. Laura Cooper Fashion Textile Management, 2024 Application Numbers Meet the Pack Hear stories from some of the newest first-year and transfer students for the fall class of 2020. Get to know them With another record-breaking year of applications received, we continue to be impressed by the many successes and accomplishments of the new students pursuing our Wolfpack from across the globe. Download a PDF of this information here. Fall 2021 Applications 32,907 first-year applications received 47.4% acceptance rate 4,118 transfer applications received 47.4% acceptance rate 6,418 total incoming students 5,011 incoming first-year students 1,388 incoming transfer students 15.6% incoming out-of-state first-year students Take a Closer Look First-year data Transfer data First-Year Students We’ve provided the middle 50% ranges for weighted and unweighted GPA’s for first-year enrolled students. 4.17 – 4.48 weighted GPA 3.75 – 3.97 unweighted GPA 52% first-year students applied without submitting test scores Major Opportunities While NC State is known for its STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) programs, 44% of our incoming students are pursuing a non-STEM program. Explore all majors A CNR student works in a greenhouse. Photo by Marc Hall College of Natural Resources student Jarami Bond works in the field and in the greenhouse. Photo by Marc Hall NC State has great people, a great environment and a great education. Anthony Carter Art Studies, 2024 Our Students Come From Far and Wide Incoming students are typically representative of all 100 North Carolina counties, 50 states and more than 35 countries. Students like Anna Owens from Tennessee found her community among other female coders in the College of Engineering. Read Anna’s story Access and Inclusion Finding Your Community NC State’s Symposium for Multicultural Scholars helps students from underrepresented backgrounds learn about resources to support their student experience. Find out more NC State is enriched through the varied knowledge and backgrounds of our students and we expect everyone to give of their talents, skills, time and effort to make NC State an environment of inclusive excellence for all. NC State’s community centers, committees and affinity groups help incoming students find a welcoming home on campus. 40% of incoming first-year students are from rural NC counties 17% of students are first in their family to attend college 28% of our first-year class identify as a race other than white Transfer Students About 20% of our students start their college career at another college or university. Below you will find stats for the incoming fall 2021 transfer class. 58 average number of credits transferred 3.21 – 3.82 transfer GPA middle 50% 54% students from NC Community Colleges Ready to join us? Get started on your application today. Apply now Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.