Jump to content Apply Visit Give Navigation Admissions Search form Search Main menu Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Family and human services Undergraduate degrees: BA or BS About the major Students in the family and human services (FHS) program are committed to helping individuals improve their quality of life. Reflecting the diversity of the community and social service sector, FHS is interdisciplinary, drawing on the fields of psychology and counseling, social work, prevention science, public health, human development, and sociology. Alongside like-minded peers, you’ll analyze and create systems of community care for children and families. You’ll learn how to help children and families develop effective ways to succeed in today’s complex world, and you’ll gain an understanding of evidenced-based interventions, prevention, and agency policy and practices. A little more info Through coursework and field experiences, FHS students build a foundation in individual, group, and community prevention and intervention, professional ethics, communication, and collaboration. Students in the FHS program are admitted as a group (a cohort) and proceed through the major in a prescribed sequence. This means that the cohort takes the same coursework together at the same time. The cohort is typically diverse on a number of dimensions including race, ethnicity, gender, national origin, age, religion, relationship status, disability, veteran status, and sexual orientation. Career opportunities FHS graduates are prepared to enter the community and social service workforce, which, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics is “projected to grow 14 percent from 2016 to 2026, faster than the average for all occupations, adding about 371,900 jobs. Most projected new jobs in this occupational group are in counselor and social worker occupations.” Many students enter the community and social service workforce immediately following graduation in a variety of fields including child protection services, juvenile justice, corrections, mental health, drug and alcohol rehabilitation and treatment, and education. Graduates also choose to pursue advanced degrees in special education, social work, counseling psychology, and family therapy. Learn More Resources Find Your Counselor UO Facts Campus Safety Residency En Español RESOURCES Campus Safety En Español Find Your Counselor Forms Regional Accreditation Request Info Status Portal Admissions 1217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Oregon Hall P: 800-BE-A-DUCK F: 541-346-5815 P: 541-346-3201 - Text Contact Us admissions@uoregon.edu Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Visit us on Instagram Accessibility Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination. Site Navigation Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Take Action Apply Visit Give