Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Undergraduate Admissions Admissions right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) right arrow down arrow Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow In-Person Campus Tour right arrow down arrow Visitor Guidelines Campus Parking and Walking Directions Group Visit Self-Guided Visit Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First NEXT Innovation Scholarship Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media Admissions » Information for... » High School Counselors » FAQs Info for... High School Students Application Information Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) SRAR FAQ Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Test-Optional FAQ Test Plan Choice Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students Application Requirements First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition Scholarships Global Scholarship Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Frequently Asked Questions - High School Counselors We appreciate your dedication to your students! As you navigate this process with them, please use the information below as a resource. If you have further questions, do not hesitate to reach out to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions or your admissions representative. What is the best way to send transcripts to the University of Cincinnati? What are you looking for in a letter of recommendation? Does the University of Cincinnati offer an application fee waiver? How does Cincinnati's review process work? When will my students receive an admission decision? If my student wants to change their preferred major after they've submitted their application, how can they do that? Can I bring a group of students to campus? How can I and/or a group of counselors schedule a visit to the University of Cincinnati? Students must submit official copies of their high school transcripts in order to complete their application. A transcript is considered official if it is: A hard copy, printed, signed, and sealed by a high school guidance counselor and either mailed or hand-delivered by the counselor or student to the Undergraduate Office of Admissions Sent electronically via Naviance, SCRIP-SAFE, or a similar document organization system Transcripts should not be sent via PDF, email, or fax. If mailing a transcript, please mail it to: University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0091 Back to Top What are you looking for in a letter of recommendation? As part of the first-year application process, we encourage a letter of recommendation or a counselor report. These should be submitted by mail or through the Common Application and come directly from the recommender. We encourage students to reach out to recommenders who can share a unique perspective about their strengths, interests, and potential fit at the University of Cincinnati. We are excited to read letters that tell us something new about the student that they may be shy about sharing somewhere else in their application. We are also happy to speak over the phone or in person about any recommendation you feel needs further explanation. Back to Top Does the University of Cincinnati offer an application fee waiver? There is a $50 application fee (non-refundable) to apply to the University of Cincinnati. Students who are eligible for a fee waiver may submit the NACAC Fee Waiver. Guidance counselors must complete and submit the form directly to Cincinnati's Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Back to Top How does Cincinnati's review process work? When will my students receive an admission decision? Please review our information about the Admission Decision Process and Timeline. Back to Top If my student wants to change their preferred major after they've submitted their application, how can they do that? If your student has already submitted their application but has yet to enroll in classes, the Office of Admissions can help them change their major preferences. Students should contact an admissions counselor and they will walk them through the steps necessary to change their preferred major. Back to Top Can I bring a group of students to campus? We greatly appreciate the opportunity to host groups of high school students. If you are interested in bringing a class or other group of students to campus, please look into scheduling a Group Tour. Back to Top How can I and/or a group of counselors schedule a visit to the University of Cincinnati? If you have 10 or more counselors interested in visiting campus together, we encourage you to request a Group Tour. However, if a smaller group of counselors from your office or department would like to visit campus, please reach out to your admissions representative. We will work to help you schedule a visit. Back to Top Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top