Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search First-year Students You are here Home Apply First-year Students About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Let us make the application process as easy as possible for you. Find out what the application process is like for first-year students and what the most important deadlines are, because having a plan and applying early has its perks. Who is a first-year student? If you plan to attend Temple from high school or secondary school, or have completed your GED, you should apply as a first-year student. Learn more about applying as an international student. Application Deadlines for First-year Students Application Opens: Aug. 1 Early Action: Nov. 1 (for fall start) Regular Decision: Feb. 1 (for fall start) FAFSA priority filing deadline: Feb. 1 Decision deadline for admitted students: May 1 Contents How to ApplyWhen to ApplyTemple Rome Entry Year ProgramVerto International Education PartnershipCosts, Aid and ScholarshipsAdmitted Students How to Apply Temple is home to a talented and diverse student community. When you apply here, you’re on your way to becoming part of a network of inquisitive, innovative and creative individuals. Here’s how to get started. 1. Make an application plan. You’ll first want to pick a decision plan and decide if you’d like to apply Early Action (Nov. 1) or Regular Decision. Early Action: Nov. 1 Apply earlier to get an admissions decision earlier. If you apply by Nov. 1, you’ll receive an admissions decision by Jan. 10, though using Early Action is not binding. Why apply early? We generally admit students at a higher rate who apply Early Action. On-campus housing is guaranteed if you commit to Temple by May 1, though the selection is first come, first served. So, the sooner you get your decision, the sooner you can plan your housing. You’ll be able to sign up for Orientation sooner, which is when you register for classes. Regular Decision: Feb. 1 Apply by Feb. 1 and you’ll receive an admissions decision in four to eight weeks after completing your application. NOTE: Early Action candidates receive priority review and can delay our review of Regular Decision candidates. During peak admissions (October through March), it might take more than eight weeks for a decision to be made on your application. Honors Program There is no separate application required to be considered for the Honors Program. All students will automatically be considered with their regular application. 2. Consider your standardized test scores. Temple offers first-year students two ways to apply. You can choose to submit your test scores. Or you can not submit test scores. We are a test-optional school, and choosing to not submit your scores does not negatively impact your application. If you feel that your test scores are not an accurate reflection of your academic ability, or you were not able to take SAT or ACT tests due to circumstances outside of your control, you do not have to apply with scores. If you choose not to submit your scores, you will apply test-optional. If you believe an SAT or ACT score would complement your application, you should submit your scores. Standardized test scores are otherwise entirely optional and in no way required for admission. Learn more about applying test-optional and if it’s the right choice for you. 3. Apply using the Common Application. Temple exclusively uses the Common Application. When completing your application for Temple, be sure to indicate whether you’re applying Early Action or Regular Decision. Even if you apply before or by the Early Action deadline, you still must indicate Early Action on your application to ensure you will receive an admissions decision early. There’s an application fee of $55, which you will submit at the same time as the Common Application unless you qualify for a waiver through a federal or state program. After submitting the Common Application, you’ll need to submit additional information through TUportal, which is a communication platform we use to keep you up-to-date with the admissions process. What We Consider We take a holistic approach when reviewing applications, which takes into consideration several factors to fully capture each student’s experiences, interests and academic coursework. Get an idea of what we are looking for by reviewing the following items. Your High School Performance We’re looking for students who are serious about academics, with at least a B average in high school classes and in the GPA 3.0 range for college-prep courses. The average high school GPA for the fall 2021 incoming class was 3.46. We also look for a well-rounded academic background, with the following academic subject distribution. English: 4 units Mathematics (college preparatory): 4 units Foreign language (same language and culture): 2 units History/social studies: 3 units Science (two years of lab): 3 units The arts: 1 unit Other college preparatory courses: 3 units Students are required to provide a copy of their high school diploma, high school equivalency certificate (GED), or proof that the student has completed secondary school through homeschooling as defined by state law. Also acceptable as equivalent to a high school diploma; an associate degree, successful completion of at least 60 semester or trimester credit hours or 72 quarter credit hours that does not result in the awarding of an associate degree, but that is acceptable for full credit toward a bachelor’s degree at any institution. Temple also awards college credits for students who in high school participated in the Advanced Placement program. Check out our equivalencies. Standardized Test Scores These give us another indication of your academic performance. We accept both the SAT and the ACT. The average SAT score was a 1247 and the average ACT scores was 29 for the fall 2021 incoming class. We suggest you take either test in the spring of your junior year, as well as in the fall of your senior year. Official results should be forwarded directly to Temple’s Office of Undergraduate Admissions from the testing agencies. SAT or ACT scores are recommended but not required of applicants 22 years of age or older. Test Optional Temple is a test-optional school. First-year candidates can apply without submitting standardized test scores by selecting test-optional, which means that you are choosing not to submit your scores. If you believe an SAT or ACT score would complement your application, you should submit your scores. Standardized test scores are otherwise entirely optional and in no way required for admission. Learn more about our test-optional application path. Application Essay It’s key to your application and is part of the Common Application. It tells us something about you beyond your grades and standardized test scores. It's also an opportunity to stand out from other applicants. Please provide a minimum of 250 words. Extracurricular Activities Tell us about what you do outside the classroom. Your outside interests help paint the full picture of who you are and can factor into the review process. Optional Letter of Recommendation Letters of recommendation are optional but will be reviewed if you choose to send them. Please do not send more than two letters. Your letters should be submitted by individuals who can speak to your academic abilities and personal accomplishments, such as a high school advisor or teacher. Additional materials for Boyer College of Music and Dance, Tyler School of Art and Architecture and School of Theater, Film and Media Arts Some majors in the Boyer College of Music and Dance, the Tyler School of Art and Architecture and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts may require additional supporting information such as an audition, interview or portfolio. Please check your intended major’s specific requirements with the school or college below. Boyer College of Music and Dance Tyler School of Art and Architecture School of Theater, Film and Media Arts For schools and colleges with such requirements, you may schedule your audition and submit your portfolio for review prior to completing the submission of your application. Get started. Applying Made Simple Complete the Common Application and start the application process today. Get started. Link to Common Application 4. Complete your application on TUportal. Shortly after you submit your Common Application, you’ll receive an email to activate your TUportal account where you’ll need to take the following steps to complete your application. Submit your self-reported high school transcript. Confirm your SAT or ACT scores have been received, if you chose to submit them. Provide any additional information or materials you may be asked to submit. Your application will be complete and ready for our admissions team to review as soon as all of the above information is received. Have questions about how to self-report your high school transcript? Learn more about how the self-report process works. 5. Check the status of your application with TUportal. All decisions made regarding your application will be available to you via TUportal. After submitting your application, you can track its status and learn important next steps in TUportal. It’s the gateway to the rest of the application process, so make sure to keep your username and password handy. Return to top When to Apply Important Dates for First-Year Students Fall Semester Start Spring Semester Start Application Opens: Aug. 1 Early Action: Nov. 1 Regular Decision: Feb. 1 FAFSA priority filing deadline: Feb. 1 Decision deadline for admitted students: May 1 Application Deadline: Nov. 1 Decision deadline for admitted students: two weeks after receiving offer of admission Return to top Temple Rome Entry Year Program Another option to consider when applying to Temple is starting your degree at our campus in Rome, Italy. Through the Temple University Rome Entry Year program, you can spend your first year at Temple University Rome and then complete your studies at Main Campus in Philadelphia. The Temple Rome Entry Year program offers an American university education with a global foundation. Housed in the Villa Caproni near the historic city center for 50 years, Temple Rome offers a creative and nurturing environment with small classes, numerous internship opportunities and renowned professors. over 40 degree programs that start in Rome, with topics ranging from business to social sciences to visual arts. the opportunity to explore Italian life and history through activities and excursions with your classmates. Beatrix Delcarmen ’22 College of Liberal Arts | Major: Political Science “The Temple Rome Entry Year Program is set up for you to explore and experience new things—to take classes, to have a place to live, to meet other people doing the same thing as you, to have that community.” Learn more. Start your degree in Rome, Italy. Here’s everything you need to know about the Temple Rome Entry Year program and if it’s the right choice for you. Learn more. Link to Temple Rome web page. Return to top Verto International Education Partnership Temple has partnered with Verto Education to offer students an opportunity to earn credits through an international gap year experience studying abroad. In this program, students who complete a semester or two abroad through Verto Education and have above a 2.5 GPA will be guaranteed transfer admission to Temple. Please thoroughly review Verto Education’s offerings and guidelines before making any decisions. Costs, Aid and Scholarships Our goal is to make it financially possible for every qualified applicant to enroll here at Temple and stay enrolled. More details. Explore Your Options Learn about our tuition rates, how to be considered for financial aid and our scholarship offerings. More details. Link to Cost, Aid and Scholarships page. Talk to Our Admissions Staff You can now schedule a virtual appointment with an undergraduate admissions representative. We’re here to help you with any questions you may have about Temple and navigating the admissions process. First-year Staff Appointments Transfer Staff Appointments Next Steps Next Steps for Admitted Students Have you officially been admitted to Temple? Congratulations! Learn more about your next steps as an admitted student. Next Steps Find the information you need to secure your place at Temple, including accepting your offer of admission and submitting your enrollment deposit. Visit Us Visit Temple Join us for an on-campus or virtual tour, connect with an admissions representative or register for a live information session. Visit Us Join us for an on-campus or virtual tour, connect with an admissions representative or register for a live information session. Back to Apply Go back to ApplyMore in First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info