Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Transfer / Transfer Students custom css-js - global Transfer Students Transferring Credit Financial Aid for Transfers Transfer Ambassadors Admitted Transfer Students Guide Each year approximately 175 transfer students join the Tulane community in the spring or fall semester. The transfer process works differently than the initial college admission process, and we hope this section will guide you through it. Interested in transferring to Tulane? Let us know! Loading... Application Requirements Common Application or Tulane Application In order to complete the transfer application process (fall or spring), you must submit the following materials: High school transcript(s) College transcript(s) Optional: ACT or SAT test score* International transfer students only: TOEFL/IELTS score** Certification of Finances form WES Evaluation if studying at a non-American university When reviewing transfer applications, we look for strong transfer applicants with at least a 3.0 cumulative GPA or higher with coursework in English Composition or College Writing, higher level Mathematics (such as Calculus or Statistics), and ideally foreign language. To be eligible for admission to Tulane, all transfer applicants must have attended a regionally accredited college or university and be in good standing at their most recent education institution. After you apply, please be sure to check your Green Wave Portal to confirm that we have received all your required materials on your application checklist. It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that we have received all materials in a timely fashion. If you have questions about your application checklist after logging into your Green Wave portal, please email transfer@tulane.edu. *Tulane is test-optional for the 2021-2022 application year. Learn more. **International students can send either the SAT or the ACT in place of the TOEFL or IELTS. International students must submit at least one standardized test. Please contact transfer@tulane.edu if you have taken the Duolingo test and are interested in using that for your application. Important Deadlines Fall (Early, Non-Binding) February 1 - Transfer Application & Supporting Materials March 15 - Admission Decision Notification May 15 - FAFSA & CSS Profile due June 15 - Enrollment Deposits Due Fall (Regular) April 15 - Transfer Application & Supporting Materials May 15 - FAFSA & CSS Profile due June 15 - Enrollment Deposits Due Rolling - Admission Decision Notification Students are encouraged to submit their application and materials as soon as complete, as there is a limited number of transfer slots available for each term, and applications are reviewed in the order they are received. Spring October 15 - Transfer Application & Supporting Materials November 1 - FAFSA & CSS Profile due December 1 - Enrollment Deposits Due Rolling - Admission Decision Notification Students are encouraged to submit their application and materials as soon as complete, as there is a limited number of transfer slots available for each term, and applications are reviewed in the order they are received. *On-campus housing is not guaranteed for transfer students. If students do not receive on-campus housing, their housing deposit will be refunded Scholarships and Financial Aid We understand that financial aid is an important consideration in the transfer decision. Tulane awards merit scholarships and need-based financial aid to make Tulane affordable and a great value. Transfer students may be offered a merit scholarship, need-based financial aid, or a combination of both after being admitted and submitting the necessary forms. For more information, please visit our financial aid for transfer students page. International Transfer Students If you have taken university courses at a non-American, international university, your university courses must be evaluated by World Educational Services (WES). This ensures a fair and accurate evaluation of all international transcripts sent to Tulane. Please note that this evaluation may be used by any other university to which you have applied and, ultimately, to any graduate program you may pursue in the future. For more information on life as an international student at Tulane, visit our International Admission page. School of Professional Advancement If you are looking to attend Tulane’s School of Professional Advancement either as a part-time student or full-time student, you will need to contact the school directly. Transfer Student Campus Life We know that adjusting to a new campus can be daunting. Tulane Transfer students are supported in multiple ways as they transition to our campus. Transfer students participate in our full Orientation schedule, which takes place the five days before the start of each semester, are assigned an academic advisor who is versed with the transfer credit evaluation process, and are encouraged to join clubs and activities on campus through our Student Activities Expo held at the beginning of each semester. Because on-campus housing is not guaranteed for transfer students, our Department of Housing and Residence Life has an entire section devoted to Off Campus Housing options. Additionally, admitted Transfer students are encouraged to join the Transfer Student Facebook group to make connections with other students transferring to Tulane. Visiting Campus The best way to find out what awaits you at Tulane is to visit campus. On our visit page, you can sign up for a campus tour or other special visit programs. We offer transfer specific programming over the course of the year and we will communicate those dates and events to transfer students on our mailing list by email. If you have not already joined our mailing list, please do so above! If you want to meet with a transfer ambassador while you are on campus, please email transfer@tulane.edu. Please provide at least two weeks’ notice of your visit and we will do our best to accommodate you. Still have questions? Help is on the way! Simply email your additional questions to transfer@tulane.edu or call 800.873.WAVE. Transferring Credit Financial Aid for Transfers Transfer Ambassadors Admitted Transfer Students Guide Meet a Transfer Ambassador Rebecca Sargent Meet other Transfer Ambassadors Did You Know? In 2014, Tulane produced 6 Fulbright Scholars. Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University