Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us Academics How to Apply Tuition & Aid Student Life Connect About Us Search Admission Process Transfer Applicants International Applicants Financial Aid Academics Student Life Athletics and Recreation Veterans Campus Visit Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Admission Process Transfer Applicants International Applicants Financial Aid Academics Student Life Athletics and Recreation Veterans Campus Visit About Us Academics How to Apply Financial Aid Student Life Visit University of Miami Undergraduate Admission About Us FAQs Student Life FAQs AAA Student Life FAQs Admission Process Transfer Applicants International Applicants Financial Aid Academics Student Life Athletics and Recreation Veterans Campus Visit GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Open All Tabs What is it like to live in Miami? From historic to contemporary, there’s something to enjoy for everyone. With its extraordinary blend of colors, cultures, and opportunities, you’d be hard-pressed to find a city elsewhere as diverse as Miami. ’Canes benefit from real-world experiences in government, nonprofit organizations, multinational corporations, and everything in between. How easy will it be to get around campus or Miami if I don’t have a car? While first-years are not allowed to have cars on campus, the University offers numerous transportation options including car-sharing, carpooling, bicycling, and on-campus shuttles, which are integrated with public transit and other modes of transportation. Visit our Campus Transportation page for more information. What is campus life like? Set one foot on the UM campus and you’ll feel it—a vibe that celebrates life, learning, and daily activities that are anything but routine. With exceptional dining options and residential halls, a bounty of social, cultural, and academic activities, and sporting venues, UM is a home away from home, a place where students who live on or commute to campus can stretch their comfort zones and expand their horizons. Visit our Student Life page for more information. How do I get involved in student life on campus? Our student organizations empower you to participate in a diverse and broad spectrum of backgrounds and interests while helping to shape the UM experience for yourself and your fellow students. Student groups coordinate campus-wide events, including Homecoming, intellectual symposiums, and the annual 'Canes Film Festival, which features films written and directed by UM film students. Other events, such as International Week, give students the opportunity to experience music, traditions, and cuisine from around the world. Visit our Student Life and the Student Activities & Student Organizations pages to learn more about getting involved. What student organizations are available? The Department of Student Activities and Student Organizations staff serves as a resource for student leaders, programming boards, and more than 300-registered student organizations through advising, leadership development, and organizational support services. Whether you attend an on-campus play, participate in a community service project, or plan Homecoming festivities as a member of the committee, you are helping to shape the UM experience for yourself and your fellow students. Is there Greek life at your school? UM currently boasts more than 2,500 students in our 26 fraternities and sororities. Visit our Greek Life page for more information. Can I join the band? Membership in UM's Frost Band of the Hour is open to all UM students regardless of their major. Visit our Band of the Hour page for more information. Do you have ROTC programs? Yes, UM has an Army and Air Force program. What are some of the UM traditions? Visit our Traditions page to learn more about our Hurricane traditions. What are UM points of pride? For a snapshot of our most recent notable achievements that took place at UM, visit at our Points of Pride page. What opportunities do UM students have to experience art and culture? Located in one of the most artistic and adventurous cities in the world, UM celebrates creativity and originality through 50 internationally acclaimed degree programs in art and art history, cinema, interactive media, music, arts presenting, theater, and more. Our ambitious art students have unparalleled opportunities to study and showcase their brilliance in gleaming galleries, including the Lowe Art Museum on campus, beautiful performance venues, flexible theatrical spaces, technologically advanced labs, lecture halls, and libraries. Visit our Arts and Culture page for more information. What programs or services are available for students with disabilities? The Office of Disability Services (ODS) is the primary University office responsible for the coordination of auxiliary aids and services for students with disabilities. ODS provides academic accommodations and support to ensure that students with disabilities are able to access and participate in the opportunities available at UM. Visit our Camner Center for Academic Resources for more information. Does UM have a counseling center? Yes, the Counseling Center is the primary provider of mental health services for UM students. The Counseling Center provides short-term individual, couples, and group therapy as well as psychoeducational outreach programming and consultation. Urgent care and limited career and psychological assessment are also available. Psychiatric services are available to those under the care of a Counseling Center therapist. Is there a health center on campus? Yes, the Student Health Service provides primary care, specialty care, and pharmacy services to eligible UM students. You are not required to have the health center-sponsored insurance plan to utilize our services. Appointments for all types of visits are available at mystudenthealth.miami.edu. Services are also available on a drop-in basis. What services are offered for international students? The Department of International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) provides information, services, acclimation, and culturally relevant activities to support international students and scholars and ensure their success. What housing options are available at UM? UM offers undergraduate on-campus housing in five residential colleges and the University Village, which is our on-campus apartment complex for upperclassmen. What do the layouts look like for various residential college rooms? To see the different room layouts we provide at the residential colleges, visit our Room Layouts page for more information. How many students live on campus? 4,199 students live on campus, including 90% of first-year students and 39% of all degree-seeking undergraduates. What are the benefits of living on campus? Living on campus is a chance to live and interact with culturally diverse students and receive support and enhanced learning opportunities through live-in faculty and student affairs staff. Each residential college has live-in faculty members, an area director/assistant area director, and student staff who support and promote student well-being, safety, academic achievement, student learning, and development. Numerous social, educational, cultural, and recreational programs are offered throughout the academic year. Visit our Department of Housing and Residential Life page for more information. Is living on campus mandatory? Nonlocal first-year students are required to live in University housing (primarily in Stanford or Hecht Residential College) for two academic semesters. After the first year, students have the option to live on campus or off. Visit our Department of Housing and Residential Life page for more information. What dining options are available for students? UM Dining Services offers a variety of food options conveniently located throughout campus and open during hours that work with your busy schedule. What meal plans are available? Our Dining Services program offers a variety of services that meet the individual student’s schedule of classes and dietary needs. Visit our Meal Plans page for more information. Are students required to have a meal plan? UM requires all undergraduate students living in its residential colleges during the fall and/or spring semesters to purchase a meal plan. What programs are there for students living in Miami-Dade or Broward counties? The Department of Orientation and Commuter Student Involvement offers a variety of services and programs for students commuting to UM from home in Miami-Dade or Broward counties. Visit our Department of Orientation and Commuter Student Involvement page for more information. Where can I get information on campus safety? The University of Miami Police Department (UMPD) is dedicated to providing a safe and secure environment for all members of the University community. Visit the UM Police page for more information. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Undergraduate Admission 1306 Stanford Drive, Suite 1210 Coral Gables, FL 33146 TEL: 305-284-6000 TEL: 305-284-6000 FAX: 305-284-2507 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search myUM Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram tiktok Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback