Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Supplementary Materials Applicants are neither required nor expected to provide additional materials as part of the admission process, but the opportunity to do so is available to any candidate. Breadcrumb Home First-Year Applicants Sub Navigation In This Section Early Decision Regular Decision Application Checklist Standardized Tests School Forms Selecting Academic Interests Supplementary Materials Music Submission Visual Art Submission Video Introduction / Alumni Interview Supplementary Materials Applicants are neither required nor expected to provide additional materials as part of the admission process, but the opportunity to do so is available to any candidate. Music or Visual Art Submissions If you are accomplished in music or visual art, you may include additional supplements with your application in the Common Application through SlideRoom. You do not need to wait for access to your Brown Applicant Portal to upload music or visual art materials to SlideRoom. When submitting through SlideRoom, you must create your SlideRoom account and begin your application on or before November 1 for Early Decision and January 5 for Regular Decision. The Early Decision material submission deadline is November 4 and the Regular Decision material submission deadline is January 10. QuestBridge applicants submitting a music and/or visual arts portfolio(s) should use the QuestBridge program(s) in SlideRoom. Music Submission Details Visual Art Submission Details Academic Paper/Research Abstract If you have completed an advanced academic paper or significant research project that you want to include as part of your application, you may upload that document or an abstract to your Brown Applicant Portal under the category of Academic Paper/Research. Please include a brief note to provide us with context for your submission, for example: approximate date(s) you were involved, whether you worked on this independently or as part of a team, what external recognition you may have received and anything else you want us to know. Dance, Theatre Arts and Performance Studies While many Brown students are accomplished in the performing arts and pursue dance and theater in and out of the classroom, auditions and portfolios are neither required nor reviewed for students interested in Dance and Theatre Arts and Performance Studies. All Other Supplementary Materials We prefer that you upload all other supplementary materials to your file after you receive access to your Brown Applicant Portal. We recommend that you do not send a collection of award certificates or similar materials. If you have a YouTube video you'd like to share, or maintain an online presence that showcases your background, talents or creativity, please include that link in the Brown University Questions (Activities) section of the Common Application. One optional letter of recommendation may be requested and submitted through the Common Application. Any additional supplementary recommendations should be sent directly by your recommender, either as a PDF emailed to documents@brown.edu or by fax to 401-863-9300. Be sure to ask your recommender to include your full name, date of birth and high school in their letter so that we can match the letter to your application. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Supplementary Materials Open details for Supplementary Materials Bookmark this Page