Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Military Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Apply Home Apply Admission to majors Dates and deadlines Freshman How to apply Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Parents & Families Preparing for college Running Start Transfer How to apply Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Transfer GPA Transfer credit policies WA CC Equivalency Guide Transfer planning resources Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Postbaccalaureate How to apply Military Thank you for your service to our country. At the UW we recognize that veterans and military personnel bring unique qualities to campus, and we welcome your interest in joining our diverse community. Admission consideration for veterans and other persons eligible to receive VA education benefits is the same as those for other students. However, military service is a valuable community service and work experience, both of which are considered in the holistic review. Not sure if you’re a freshman or transfer student? Let us help. Admission to the UW is competitive. To enroll at the UW, prospective students must: Apply for admission by the appropriate application deadline. If you miss the deadline, you may contact the Office of Admissions directly to request a late application review. Satisfy minimum College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Be competitive through holistic review Receive and accept an offer of admission Veterans education benefits As a veteran, active duty member or a military dependent, you may be entitled to VA benefits, tuition reductions or tuition assistance programs while enrolled at the UW. The VA’s website is also a great starting point and resource for determining what VA educational benefit is best for you. Questions about the admission process and being a strong applicant? Contact Carlos Williams, Assistant Director of Admissions, at clwilli@uw.edu. Home Apply Admission to majors Dates and deadlines Freshman How to apply Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Parents & Families Preparing for college Running Start Transfer How to apply Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Transfer GPA Transfer credit policies WA CC Equivalency Guide Transfer planning resources Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Postbaccalaureate How to apply Military Resources What is my application type WA CC Equivalency Guide Disability resources Freshman viewbook – interactive version Freshman viewbook – pdf Transfer viewbook University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA