Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Early Decision Frequently asked questions about Early Decision Breadcrumb Home Frequently Asked Questions If I want to include test scores as a part of my application, when is the deadline to submit my scores? Since Brown is test optional for first year applicants in the 2022-23 admission cycle, test scores are not a required component of the first-year application this year. If you would like to include test scores for review in your application and are applying Early Decision, testing must be completed by the last October test date to ensure receipt of scores. What are the possible Early Decision outcomes? A portion of our Early Decision applicants will receive an offer of admission, which means that their college application process is complete and they will enroll at Brown. In the interest of offering a final decision where possible, we also turn down Early Decision applicants who, based on our experience, would not be competitive in our Regular Decision process. For other early applicants, we defer the final decision until spring to be able to reconsider this group along with Regular Decision candidates. What does a "deferral" to the Regular Decision process really mean? Students whose Early Decision applications are deferred are well-qualified for study at Brown. A deferral should not be seen as an indication of shortcomings. Deferred applicants will be considered anew among the Regular Decision applicants. Our goal is to admit the most capable and diverse group of students with respect to their interests, backgrounds, and potential to contribute to the Brown community and beyond. What if I am admitted Early Decision, but the financial package is insufficient? You and your family should make use of our Financial Aid Calculator before you apply Early Decision. Brown’s Financial Aid Calculator is designed to assist prospective undergraduate students and their parents in estimating a family contribution and need-based award if the student were to attend Brown. If your financial aid package is insufficient, you should contact the Office of Financial Aid directly to ensure that your application was not missing any information which might have affected your package. The Office of Financial Aid will work with you to re-evaluate your package. If the package, after reconsideration, is truly unaffordable for your family, then you will be permitted to withdraw from your obligation to Brown. Are my chances for admission increased if I apply Early Decision? Our pool of early applicants tends to include a very high proportion of exceptionally talented students and a higher rate of admission for Early Decision applicants reflects that phenomenon. However, it does not imply an automatic advantage for all early candidates. We admit Early Decision applicants only when we are confident that we would offer them admission as a Regular Decision applicant. If I apply and am admitted using the Early Decision option, am I committed to attending Brown? Students who are admitted under the Early Decision plan are committed to attending Brown. Because this admission round is binding, it is important to carefully consider your choice before applying Early Decision. If I apply Early Decision to Brown, may I also apply to other colleges? Early Decision is intended for students who consider Brown their top choice. The program allows first-year applicants to apply for admission to Brown in the fall of their senior year and receive an admission decision in mid-December. Applicants and their families should be aware that admission via our Early Decision program is a binding agreement to attend Brown. Applicants who choose to apply to Brown under Early Decision may not submit an application to another institution under another early decision plan or a single-choice or restrictive early action plan. Students admitted under our Early Decision plan are expected to enroll at Brown and withdraw all pending applications—including those already submitted to regular, rolling, or (open) early action programs. What if another college offers me admission and requires a commitment before I have heard from Brown? You should contact our office if you are presented with an unusual dilemma, but colleges are almost always willing to allow students the opportunity to receive notification from other schools before requiring a commitment. Our Early Decision notification occurs by mid-December and Regular Decision applicants are notified by early April. We are not able to give any decisions in advance of our release dates because we are fully engaged in piecing together an entire group of admitted students rather than simply determining whether to admit an individual applicant. May I submit additional or updated information if I am deferred? You may certainly let us know if there is a significant accomplishment or a noteworthy change in your circumstances, but it is not necessary to amend your application as a matter of course. Remember that a deferral does not mean that an applicant has fallen short in terms of qualification for admission. Make sure that your counselor has the Mid-Year Report form so we can receive your fall term grades and any updates your school would like to provide. You are also welcome to submit a letter of continued interest during the Regular Decision admission process if Brown remains your college of choice. You may upload your letter through the Brown applicant portal. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Early Decision Open details for Early Decision Bookmark this Page