Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Engineering, Computer and Information Systems Engineering, Computer and Information Systems Bring Imagination to Life Related Majors Download Brochure Apply Now Request Information It could be the solution to an especially vexing problem. A building that’s more earthquake resilient. A dazzling display for your phone or gaming console. An agile, two-legged robot for search and rescue missions. Engineers make such innovations possible. Engineers from Oregon State University. You can be one of them. Get hands-on, real-world experience, work with world-renowned faculty and make real contributions to groundbreaking research. Our graduates are in high demand. Companies are looking for people who combine technical capabilities with communication, collaboration and leadership skills — all of which are part of the curriculum at Oregon State. Imagine all the possibilities to improve how we work, live and play. The path from possibility to reality starts here. Oregon State engineering students consistently score well above the national average on the Fundamentals of Engineering exam required for the profession. Each year, the passing rate for Oregon State students is above 90 percent, compared to the national passing rate of about 75 percent. Earn your degree from an accredited engineering school. All Oregon State engineering programs are fully accredited and offer a Bachelor of Science degree through a basic four-year curriculum. In the College of Engineering, you’ll spend your first two years building the foundations for your major with a focus on engineering principles, math, sciences or programming languages. For those who are dual-enrolled in a degree partnership program or transferring to OSU, our engineering programs allow for the first two years to be taken at a community college. Give Your Career a Head Start Learning by doing is one of the best ways to prepare for a career, and internships are increasingly important for landing a great job after college. Oregon State is a founding member of MECOP, a statewide university/industry partnership that offers two paid six-month internships during the third and fourth years of a five-year program of study. OSU offers a resource-rich environment that encourages you to combine your studies in engineering with opportunities like the Honors College and study abroad programs. You’ll find challenging, unique experiences that support your academic, professional and personal growth — and have fun, too. Connect with us and we'll send you more information Loading... 2col-robots-900x507.jpg Multiple scholarships are available. Be sure to apply. Get some help paying for college with a variety of university-wide and departmental scholarships. Most scholarships are awarded based on information in the Oregon State application, but others require separate applications, such as our OSU ScholarDollars portal. The deadline to apply for university scholarships is Feb. 1. Be sure to check with your college and department on the deadlines for other scholarships. Apply Now. Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram