Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Undergraduate Admissions Admissions right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) right arrow down arrow Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow In-Person Campus Tour right arrow down arrow Visitor Guidelines Campus Parking and Walking Directions Group Visit Self-Guided Visit Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First NEXT Innovation Scholarship Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media Admissions » Information for... » High School Students » Application Information » Test-Optional Admission » Test-Optional FAQ Info for... High School Students Application Information Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) SRAR FAQ Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Test-Optional FAQ Test Plan Choice Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students Application Requirements First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition Scholarships Global Scholarship Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Test-Optional FAQ We have prepared this page to address many common questions regarding test-optional. However, if you have additional questions, we encourage you to reach out to your admissions counselor or contact the Office of Admissions at admissions@uc.edu. 1. Why does UC make standardized test scores optional? right arrow down arrow We recognize that changes to test availability and testing environments due to the COVID-19 pandemic left many students with inequitable access to standardized tests. UC was proud to offer test-optional admission to students applying for the fall 2021 term and will continue the two-year pilot for applicants for fall 2022 to ensure equitable opportunity for admission. 2. How will UC evaluate students who do not choose to have their test scores considered as part of their application? right arrow down arrow We have always taken a holistic approach to evaluating students for admission. Standardized test scores have historically only made up a small part of our decision process. In the absence of a test score, we will continue to look at all factors on your application holistically including the completion of a core curriculum that includes English, math, science, social studies, and various electives, grades earned, a student’s decision to take rigorous coursework such as AP, honors, or dual credit where it is offered, application essays, extracurricular activities, and other achievements. A complete list of required application materials can be found on our application information web page. View a full list of application requirements >> 3. How do I decide if applying test-optional is right for me? right arrow down arrow Our goal when reviewing an application is to more fully understand who the applicant is, how likely they are to be academically successful in an Uptown campus program, and what attributes the student will bring to our campus community. Therefore, we do not have a formula for whether or not you should choose to have your test scores considered as part of the admissions process. Ultimately, it is up to you to decide if the test score is an accurate and relevant representation of your academic strength and ability. Please Note: Some academic programs still require submission of a test score. See question #4 for a complete list. 4. Is every academic program test-optional at UC? right arrow down arrow Most programs at University of Cincinnati will consider students for admission with or without a standardized test score as part of their application. A test score is still required for the following programs: College of Nursing Direct-Admit BSN program Early Childhood Education Program (offered through the College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services) 5. Are there any students that must still submit a test score? right arrow down arrow International students will be required to provide proof of English ability, as outlined on the international admissions web page. Students hoping to be considered for the following academic programs are required to submit a test score: College of Nursing Direct-Admit BSN program Early Childhood Education Program (offered through the College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services) 6. If I apply without test scores, can I still be considered for merit-based scholarships? right arrow down arrow Students who apply test-optional by our Dec. 1 Early Action Deadline will be considered for scholarships. Similar to the admission review process, scholarship decisions will also be based on a holistic review of all application materials. 7. How do I indicate that I’d like to apply as a test-optional applicant? right arrow down arrow Students will be able to tell us in their application whether they want their test score to be included or excluded from the admission review process. This can be found in the “General” section of UC’s Common Application questions. 8. What if I would like to apply test-optional but my scores have already been sent from a testing agency or included on my transcripts? right arrow down arrow If you indicate on your application that you do not want your test scores considered, your test scores will not be included as part of your admission review regardless of whether you send them to us from a testing agency. We are not able to review self-reported test scores for admission. 9. If I choose to have my test scores considered as part of the admission review process, how do I report my scores to UC? right arrow down arrow Test scores that will be considered for admission must be received on an official score report sent by either the ACT or College Board. Self-reported scores and scores from a student’s transcript will not be considered for admission. 10. What will help my application stand out without a test score? right arrow down arrow We’ve never thought a test score makes one applicant unique from another – after all, many students receive the same score. Ultimately we want to review your application and learn about who you are. Write an essay that shows your personality, demonstrate your hobbies and interests in your list of activities, and request letters from recommenders that can speak to your unique strengths. 11. If I don’t send my test score, will the reviewer assume it’s a low score? right arrow down arrow No. Students have various reasons for not sending their test score, from not believing it is an accurate reflection of their academic ability to not having a chance to take the test at all. Applications without a test score will be reviewed in the same way as those with a test score. Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top