Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site Multicultural Open House Celebrate diversity and inclusion at Yale. The 2021 Yale Multicultural Open House featured live online events featuring Yale’s cultural centers, student groups, academic opportunities, and resource centers, through panels, performances, and showcases. View the full schedule and watch recordings of events you missed below. Recordings from the 2020 Virtual Open House are also available. Schedule of Events Sunday, October 3: 3:00pm – 4:00pm EDT Multicultural Open House Kickoff - Jeremiah Quinlan, Dean of Undergraduate Admissions and Financial Aid, welcomes prospective students and their families to Yale’s first virtual Multicultural Open House. Yale leaders will join Dean Quinlan to provide an introduction to Yale's vibrant diverse community and a preview of future events. Monday, October 4: 6:00pm – 7:00pm EDT Native American Cultural Center Open House - The Native American Cultural Center supports a prominent and thriving Indigenous presence at Yale College. The Center fosters a sense of community for students, one that involves encouragement, mentoring, and service. NACC cultivates student identity and leadership through such shared values as accountability, transparency, assertiveness, and honesty, and pride in culture. Meet students and staff who are active at the center and learn more about the center's communities, activities, and support programs. Monday, October 4: 7:30 – 8:30pm EDT Diversity of Experience: Research, Resources, and More at Yale - The transition to college from high school can seem daunting. At Yale, a constellation of programs and resources help students transition and thrive. This panel will highlight three of Yale's most longstanding and valuable transition programs: First-Year Scholars at Yale (FSY), Science, Technology, & Research Scholars (STARS), and Cultural Connections (CC). Tuesday, October 5: 6:00 – 7:00pm EDT Asian American Cultural Center Open House - The Asian American Cultural Center supports the thriving Asian and Asian American presence at Yale. The AACC honors the vibrant and complex cultures, histories, and experiences of the Asian and Asian American community at Yale. Meet students and staff who are active at the center and learn more about the center's communities, activities, and support programs. Tuesday, October 5: 7:30pm – 8:30pm EDT 'Who is Taking Care of My Student?' Panel - The transition to college involves the whole family. Learn about the academic, social, and emotional support Yale students receive from their residential colleges and many campus resource centers. Hear from dedicated Yale staff about how their offices help students thrive after they arrive. Wednesday, October 6: 6:00pm – 7:00pm EDT La Casa Cultural: the Latinx Cultural Center Open House - La Casa Cultural de Julia de Burgos, the Latinx Cultural Center at Yale, offers Yale students and community members a rich variety of social, academic, and cultural resources in a vibrant and welcoming environment. La Casa promotes a sense of unity among Latinx people at Yale, and supports Yale students in matters of scholarship, identity exploration, leadership, and social awareness. Meet students and staff who are active at the center and learn more about the center's communities, activities, and support programs. Wednesday, October 6: 7:30pm – 8:30pm EDT First-Generation Low-Income Community Initiative Open House - The Community Initiative supports Yale's first-generation, low-income (FGLI) students financially, academically, and socially. It also empowers FGLI student leaders to enact cultural change on campus. Meet students and staff who are active with the Community Initiative and hear real talk about the FGLI experience at Yale. Thursday, October 7: 6:00pm – 7:00pm EDT Life at Yale: Current Student Panel - What is student life like this year at Yale? What’s there to do on campus and how do students get involved? Student panelists with diverse interests and backgrounds will share a candid look at Yale's undergraduate life. Thursday, October 7: 7:30pm – 8:30pm EDT Living & Learning: Residential College Student Panel - The residential college system is at the heart of the Yale undergraduate experience. Hear more about the residential college experience from the students who live within their walls. Learn more about the spaces, events, and traditions that make the colleges integral to student life. Friday, October 8: 5:30pm – 6:30pm EDT Afro-American Cultural Center Open House - The Afro-American Cultural Center is a community of African American scholar-leaders committed to preserving and promoting the historical, cultural, intellectual and social movement traditions of the African Diaspora. The House supports students in their development as scholars, leaders, people of service. Meet students and staff who are active at the center and learn more about the center's communities, activities, and support programs. Video Coming Soon! Saturday, October 9: 2:00pm – 3:00pm EDT This Has Been the MOHst Fun: Admissions and Financial Aid Closing Event - Wrap up the Multicultural Open House experience with representatives from Yale's Office of Undergraduate Financial Aid and Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Learn about affordability and get advice on navigating the college application process. Afro American Cultural Center Asian-American Cultural Center La Casa Cultural NACC Powwow 1st Gen Yale Recordings from MOH 2020 Multicultural Open House Kickoff Diversity of Experience: Research, Resources, and More at Yale Asian American Cultural Center Open House 'Who is Taking Care of My Student?' Panel La Casa Cultural: the Latinx Cultural Center Open House Life at Yale: Current Student Panel Student Performance Group Showcase Afro-American Cultural Center Open House Residential College Life Panel First-Generation Low-Income Community Initiative Open House Native American Cultural Center Open House This Has Been the MOHst Fun: Closing Ceremony with Admissions and Financial Aid REGISTER FOR THE MULTICULTURAL OPEN HOUSE Celebrate diversity and inclusion at Yale October 3-9. Register for up to 11 virtual events with one form. VIRTUAL TOUR Explore Yale’s campus online. View Residential Colleges, science labs, athletics facilities, libraries, classrooms, and more. QUICK COST ESTIMATOR Estimate your Yale cost in three minutes with the MyinTuition Quick Cost Estimator. EXPLORE VIRTUAL EVENTS Join a virtual information session, student forum, or virtual event featuring Yale and other colleges. In This Section Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Related Links Affordability QuestBridge & Yale Email the Admissions Office Advice for First-Generation College Applicants First-Generation Low-Income Community Initiative Afro-American Cultural Center Asian American Cultural Center La Casa Cultural: Latinx Cultural Center Native American Cultural Center Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved