Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Intern & Study Abroad A rewarding way to enrich and broaden a Princeton education can mean going beyond its gates. Princeton’s study abroad programs give students the opportunity to expand and deepen their undergraduate education by studying or working overseas. By absorbing and adapting to a different culture, learning its language and befriending its people, students learn a great deal about themselves and gain a more sophisticated view of the world. A World of Possibilities Princeton accepts credit from more than 100 programs and universities in 43 countries. Students can pursue a wide range of studies internationally. For instance, they might study public policy at the University of Cape Town in South Africa, engineering at the University of Oxford in England or neuroscience at the Karolinska Institutet in Sweden. Paying for Study Abroad Princeton’s full-coverage financial aid program ensures that every student has an equal opportunity to study abroad. Students who receive financial aid continue to receive it when participating in approved programs during the semester or year. Even those who don’t normally receive financial aid have access to external and internal grants, fellowships and special funds to help them meet some of the costs of overseas activities, including summer language study, international service programs and thesis research. Internships Abroad Princeton also partners with governments and private industries around the globe to arrange summer jobs and internships. Princeton students have taken jobs and internships as bank tellers in Paris, law clerks in Germany and television production assistants in Thailand. If a Princeton student is offered an unpaid internship that lasts more than eight weeks in the summer, University funding often helps pay his or her expenses. Learn more about Princeton's International Internship Program. LABs: Learning Across Borders Play Video: LABs: Learning Across Borders Video of Learning Across Borders shares student experiences Undergraduate Blog Let’s Talk About the Money: France and Finances By Fedjine Mitchelle Victor Learn More Full content of /blogs/let%E2%80%99s-talk-about-money-france-and-finances Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746