Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > University Resources Resources Take some time to check out the following university resources and services; they can help smooth your transition to life as a Longhorn. Majors, Degree Plans and Courses Looking for information about degrees, majors, program options, course schedules and related issues? The Office of the Registrar has you covered: Undergraduate Catalog The Undergraduate Catalog offers information on undergraduate degrees, degree requirements, majors, program options, preparation for law and health professional studies, and courses. Course Schedule The Course Schedule contains information you will need to register for classes—including instructions, academic advising requirements and locations, building and course abbreviations, course offerings for the semester and other general information. General Information The General Information catalog is intended to be used in conjunction with the Undergraduate Catalog. It contains a variety of useful information about the university, including freshman admission standards, general academic policy, tuition and required fee schedules, student affairs and services, and information about libraries and other academic facilities. Campus Safety Campus safety is everyone’s business. Read about Safety and Security on the Forty Acres—everything from crime statistics to emergency preparedness procedures to contact information for the university’s Counseling and Mental Health Center Crisis Line. Computer Services and Security For information about technology-related matters ranging from setting up a university email account to printing on campus, check out Information Technology Services’ student resources. Student Activities, Organizations, Support and Assistance The Office of the Dean of Students and Division of Diversity and Community Engagement support Longhorns with many on-campus services and activities: Gender and Sexuality Center Leadership and Ethics Institute Legal Services for Students Legislative Student Organizations Multicultural Engagement Center New Student Services Research Institute Services for Students with Disabilities Sorority and Fraternity Life Student Activities Student Emergency Services Student Veteran Services Health Services Students have access to many free and low-cost medical services on campus—including immunizations, a general medical care clinic, sports medicine and an urgent care clinic—through University Health Services (UHS). UHS has medical professionals on staff to treat students, including a 24-hour-a-day Nurse Advice Line. Paying Bills Looking for information and help with your bills and related issues? Student Accounts Receivable processes payments and serves as an information resource for your university bills. It can help with questions about tuition and fee rates, payment due dates, how to pay, payment plans, online tuition bills, refunds, official fee receipts, tuition and cash loans, exemptions/waivers (like the Texas Tomorrow Funds or valedictorian scholarship) and higher education tax credits. Getting Things Done UT Direct is the secure portal that you’ll use to get things done online. Use it to: Register for classes Develop degree plans Check your grades Access library services Pay your bills Complete other secure tasks admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022