Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Admissions Search Menu Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour Search Admissions Providence Breadcrumb Home Why Brown? Sub Navigation In This Section By The Numbers Providence Providence Known as “The Creative Capital,” Providence is the biggest city in the smallest state. We're located in Rhode Island’s vibrant capital—known for its innovative arts scene, exceptional culinary offerings, and unpretentious vibe. Statewide bus fare is free with your Brown ID, and the School is a 10-minute walk to Providence Station and 15-minute drive to the airport (PVD). School of Public Health Walk Score: 90 Providence Visitor’s Guide City of Providence https://www.youtube.com/embed/Y2tQM2PRcY0 Public Health in PVD Providence is a great place to live, study, and practice public health. Providence in the Press Boston Herald CNN Travel Condé Nast Traveler Forbes Vogue Washington Post Rhode Island isn’t just a great place to live Comprising 1,000 square miles and 1 million people, the smallest state in the union is manageable in scope while being economically and ethnically diverse. Which makes it the ideal place not only to collect data, but also to evaluate interventions and understand why they work. Rhode Island's small size means that no one is ever out of reach. Our students have access to organizations and government agencies—from the insurance commissioner's office to the lieutenant governor's office, from the Department of Health to the seven local hospitals affiliated with Brown's Alpert Medical School—that are key to improving population health. Brown University Brown is an internationally-renowned Ivy League university known for innovative education, multidisciplinary research, and community service. Overlooking the Providence River, the Brown University School of Public Health links Downtown Providence and College Hill. Campus Tour Options Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Providence Open details for Providence Bookmark this Page