Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Undergraduate Admissions Admissions right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) right arrow down arrow Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow In-Person Campus Tour right arrow down arrow Visitor Guidelines Campus Parking and Walking Directions Group Visit Self-Guided Visit Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First NEXT Innovation Scholarship Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media Admissions » Information for... » Parents & Families » FAQs Info for... High School Students Application Information Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) SRAR FAQ Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Test-Optional FAQ Test Plan Choice Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students Application Requirements First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition Scholarships Global Scholarship Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Frequently Asked Questions - Parents and Families Whether this is your first or your fifteenth student to go to college, the process can be intimidating. There are a lot of applications, deadlines, and options to keep track of. We are here to help. These are questions we frequently receive from parents and family members of students as they apply to college. What are my responsibilities as a parent or family member during my student's application and admission process? What are Cincinnati's admission requirements? What classes should my student take in high school to prepare for success in college? How will my student's AP courses or advanced credit apply to their degree? What is the difference between an "early action" deadline, "early decision" deadline, and a "rolling" deadline? What does "direct admit" mean? Does the University of Cincinnati "super score?" Is there an application fee? Can it be waived? Can my student change their major preference after they have already applied? If my student is being home schooled, what do they need to do differently? During this time of transition, we want to help you support your student and their growth into young adults. As students move from high school and into a college environment or from one college to another, we encourage them to take ownership of that process. We hope that parents and family members will support their students in taking on the responsibility of managing their own application, asking good questions, reaching out to admissions counselors, and meeting important deadlines. Most conversations about an application must be had with the applicant themselves even if they are under the age of 18 because that record is legally theirs. However, we encourage parents to be involved in many ways including accompanying their students on campus visits, helping students proof-read their personal statement or emails they intend to send to admissions staff, and reminding students of important application steps and deadlines. Our admissions staff is happy to answer any questions you or your student have about the admissions process or the University itself. We look forward to working with you to ensure your student has a successful transition to the University of Cincinnati! Back to Top What are Cincinnati's admission requirements? First-Year Students The University of Cincinnati requires that students applying for their first year of college at the main campus have completed the following minimum requirements in a college preparatory curriculum: 4 units of english 4 units of math* 3 units of science 3 units of social studies 5 units of electives** *Mathematics units must include 1 unit of algebra II or the equivalent of algebra II. **Electives can include any combination of foreign language, fine arts, business, career-technical education, family and consumer sciences, technology, agricultural education or additional core courses not otherwise required. Preference may be given for completion of foreign language (2 units of the same language) or additional core courses (English, math, science, social studies) not otherwise required for graduation. Please Note: 1 unit is defined as the equivalent to one full year of course instruction. Required Application Materials The Common Application $50 non-refundable application fee (or fee waiver) Official High School Transcript Official ACT or SAT test scores (optional)* Letter of Recommendation (optional) *A test score is still required for the following programs: College of Nursing Direct-Admit BSN program Early Childhood Education Program (offered through the College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services) Transfer Students The University of Cincinnati offers more than 300 undergraduate programs with admission requirements varying by college and program. Required Application Materials The University of Cincinnati Online Application $50 application fee All college or university transcripts from previous institutions - Must be requested by the student High School Transcripts - This requirement applies if you have completed fewer than 30 college credits Back to Top What classes should my student take in high school to prepare for success in college? The University of Cincinnati requires that students applying for their first year of college at the main campus have completed the following minimum requirements in a college preparatory curriculum: 4 units of english 4 units of math* 3 units of science 3 units of social studies 5 units of electives** *Mathematics units must include 1 unit of algebra II or the equivalent of algebra II. **Electives can include any combination of foreign language, fine arts, business, career-technical education, family and consumer sciences, technology, agricultural education or additional core courses not otherwise required. Choosing to take advanced credit courses such as AP, IB, CCP, or dual-admission is a good way for students to become accustomed to college-level coursework. We encourage students who feel they will be successful in these types of courses to take advantage of what their high school has to offer. However, please keep in mind that although you may earn college-credit for some of these courses, the University of Cincinnati does not view this as a replacement for college and in some cases, academic advisors may recommend that a student enroll in a beginning level course instead of bypassing a course to ensure the student fully understands the material. We hope students will work with their guidance counselors while in high school to choose the appropriate classes. Back to Top How will my student's AP courses or advanced credit apply to their degree? Credit for Advanced Placement examinations (AP) is granted, in most cases, for scores of 3 or higher. To find AP equivalencies, consult the AP Key. Send your original AP scores to the University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions. AP credit cannot be granted based on another college's transcripts. There are many different types of advanced credit that a student may bring with them into their first year of college. The Credit Evaluation Center can provide more information about each type of credit and how it may apply to a degree. The first opportunity you will have to speak with an academic advisor will be at Bearcats Bound Orientation during the summer before your first year on campus. This advisor will be able to tell you how your advanced credits may affect your path to your degree. If you have questions in the meantime, please contact the Office of Admissions at 513-556-1100. Back to Top What is the difference between an "early action" deadline, "early decision" deadline, and a "rolling" deadline? The "Application Deadline" is the date by which we need to receive all your student's application materials. The University of Cincinnati follows two types of admission plans, Early Action and Rolling. Early Action is a non-binding plan that gives applicants priority consideration to our more competitive programs. Additionally, students need to apply by the Early Action deadline to be considered for the University Honors Program and merit-based scholarships. There is not a separate application for either of these. The fact that this deadline is non-binding is what differentiates an "early action" deadline from an "early decision" deadline. If a student applies "early decision" they have made an agreement with that school to confirm admission there if offered. The University of Cincinnati does not have this kind of binding agreement with students. Rolling means that we accept applications on a space available basis. The "Confirmation Deadline" is the date by which we need to receive a response from your student regarding their admission decision. They will not be able to enroll in classes until they confirm their admission. Back to Top What does "direct admit" mean? "Direct admit" means that when your student is reviewed for admission, they can be reviewed for a specific major within one of the academic colleges on campus. When your student applies to the University of Cincinnati, they can preference up to three majors on the application. They will be reviewed for these programs in the order they listed them on their application. If they are eligible for admission to one of their preferences, they will begin classes in this major during their first semester of freshman year. If they do not know what they would like to study, they can also preference Exploratory Studies which is the University of Cincinnati's version of "undecided." This gives your student the opportunity to explore their interests before committing to a specific major. Back to Top Does the University of Cincinnati "super score?" The University of Cincinnati does not "super score" a student's ACT or SAT scores. To "super score" means to combine each of a student's highest sub-scores from multiple instances of the same standardized test and create a new (higher) composite score. We do not do this. However, it is often in a student's best interest to send us multiple test scores because we are able to view individual sub-scores from multiple standardized tests. If your student has a math sub-score that is the highest across all their standardized tests, we may use that in our admissions review process even if that score is not part of the highest composite test score. Back to Top Is there an application fee? Can it be waived? There is a $50 fee (non-refundable) to apply to the University of Cincinnati. First-year student applicants eligible for a fee waiver, may submit the NACAC Fee Waiver. Their guidance counselor must complete and submit the form directly to Cincinnati's Office of Admissions. Transfer student applicants will complete steps within their application to request a fee waiver. The Office of Admissions will review requests and grant waivers on a case-by-case basis. Back to Top Can my student change their major preference after they have already applied? If your student has already submitted their application but has yet to enroll in classes, the Office of Admissions can help them change their major preferences. Students should contact their admissions counselor and they will walk you through the steps necessary to change your preferred major. Back to Top If my student is being home schooled, what do they need to do differently? Students who were home schooled follow the same application process as all other first-year applicants. Home schooled students who meet their state requirements for high school graduation and have taken the SAT or ACT test will be considered for admission based on the same criteria as all high school graduates. To be considered, home schooled students must submit with their application materials: a detailed curriculum, including course content descriptions a copy of the superintendent release form authorizing the home schooling (Ohio students only, as required by the State of Ohio) other documentation upon request Back to Top Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top