Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Applicants The Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Program is a small, highly competitive program ideal for students who interrupted or delayed their formal education due to family commitments, financial concerns, health issues, employment opportunities or simply a compelling need to explore other paths. U.S. military veterans are highly encouraged to apply using Brown's specialized Veterans Application, available in mid-October. Sub Navigation In This Section Eligibility Application Requirements Application Process Financial Aid Housing, Meals & Child Care Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Applicants The Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Program is a small, highly competitive program ideal for students who interrupted or delayed their formal education due to family commitments, financial concerns, health issues, employment opportunities or simply a compelling need to explore other paths. U.S. military veterans are highly encouraged to apply using Brown's specialized Veterans Application, available in mid-October. Academic opportunities and course load RUE students take the same rigorous courses, earn the same bachelor’s degree (A.B. or Sc.B.) and have access to the full range of opportunities as other Brown undergraduates. They also take advantage of the flexibility of Brown’s Open Curriculum and may pursue any academic concentration. The RUE program is ideal for students who wish to have a full undergraduate experience, the opportunity to be involved in campus life and extracurricular opportunities, and a flexible timeline to pursue their academic goals. Unlike conventional transfer students, RUE students are not required to enter with advanced semester standing. All RUE students, including RUE transfers, even with an associates degree already, enter Brown initially with a semester level of 1, offering them up to 8 full-time semesters of enrollment, maximum choice in charting their Brown education and time to consider whether to accelerate their timeline to degree completion. Students may seek transfer credits and advance their semester standing later. Most decide during their first or second semester at Brown, once they have had a chance to take courses, speak with advisors and become more familiar with curricular options and more certain about their academic plans. And although they typically pursue a full course load of 3 or 4 four courses per semester, RUE students also may enroll in fewer courses with permission from a RUE dean. Support and advising RUE students participate in a specialized orientation program and have dedicated advising through The College. In the process of declaring a concentration, each RUE student works with a faculty member who provides concentration-specific advising. RUE students take advantage of the full range of other advising at Brown, including the CareerLAB and pre-professional advising for those interested in careers in medicine, law and business. RUE students are members of RUSA, a student organization that fosters engagement and community amongst RUE and other students with non-traditional pathways at Brown. Start Your Application RUE applicants complete the RUE application, not the Common Application. The application is available October 1 for prospective entrance in the fall of the following year. The application deadline is March 1. Apply for the RUE Program Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Applicants Open details for Resumed Undergraduate Education (RUE) Applicants Bookmark this Page