Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us Academics How to Apply Tuition & Aid Student Life Connect About Us Search Admission Process Post Application Submission Waitlist Transfer Applicants International Applicants Financial Aid Academics Student Life Veterans Campus Visit Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Admission Process Post Application Submission Waitlist Transfer Applicants International Applicants Financial Aid Academics Student Life Veterans Campus Visit About Us Academics How to Apply Financial Aid Student Life Visit University of Miami Undergraduate Admission About Us FAQs Admission Process FAQs AAA Admission Process FAQs Admission Process Post Application Submission Waitlist Transfer Applicants International Applicants Financial Aid Academics Student Life Veterans Campus Visit GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Open All Tabs Am I considered a first-year applicant? You are considered a first-year applicant if any of the following apply: You are still in high school/home school and have not yet received your high school diploma or the equivalent. You have not yet received your high school diploma or the equivalent and are enrolled in an early college program or dual enrollment program. You have received a high school diploma or the equivalent but have not enrolled full time at a post-secondary institution or have entered a college or university as a degree-seeking student. If you fall in any of these categories, please submit a first-year Common Application. What is the average first-year student enrollment? Each fall first-year class is made up of approximately 2,100 students. What is needed to complete the first-year application? The following materials are needed to complete the first-year application: Common Application Official high school transcripts (must come directly from the school) School Report from your school counselor One letter of recommendation (must be from a teacher OR a school counselor) ACT and/or SAT scores (optional for Spring and Fall 2023 applicants) International Financial Certification Form (international applicants only) TOEFL or IELTS scores (non-native English speakers only) Additional requirements for special programs, if applicable Which programs require supplemental materials? We do not encourage the submission of supplemental materials outside of those required by the programs below: Bachelor of Architecture - Portfolio Required, if not submitting ACT/SAT scores Theatre Arts B.F.A. - Supplemental Application and Audition Required Frost School of Music - Supplemental Application and Audition Required Health Professions Mentoring Program (HPM) - Supplemental Application Required Supplemental applications are available in the applicant portal. Access to the portal will be granted once your admission application is received. Does UM accept the Coalition Application? No, we require all applicants to submit the Common Application. How much is UM’s application fee? UM’s nonrefundable application fee is $70, payable online via the Common Application. The fee applies to all applicants, regardless of state of residency or citizenship status. How do I qualify for an application fee waiver? We do not provide application fee waivers. Students for whom the nonrefundable application fee presents a financial hardship should consult with their school counselor about obtaining a fee waiver from NACAC, College Board, or ACT. How do I submit my application fee waiver? Should you obtain a fee waiver, you can fax a copy to 305-284-2507 or email mydocuments@miami.edu with the subject line "Application Fee Waiver." Be sure to include your full name and date of birth on all correspondence. What are UM’s admission deadlines? To view a complete list, visit our Options & Deadlines page. Students must submit their completed application (with all supporting documents) by 11:59 p.m. local time on the stated deadline. Does UM accept late applications? Applications submitted after the stated deadlines will be considered late and may be considered on a space available basis. What is Early Decision? Early Decision (ED) is a binding admission plan intended for incoming first-year students who, at the conclusion of a thoughtful college search, determine that UM is their first-choice school. Students admitted through ED are expected to withdraw their applications to other colleges and universities and commit to enroll at UM in the fall. Check out our blog post Early Decision Demystified. What is the difference between Early Decision I and Early Decision II? UM offers two ED plans, ED I and ED II. Both are binding admission plans, but they have different application deadlines and decision notification dates. Visit our Options & Deadlines page for more information. What are the advantages of applying Early Decision? The admission committee looks favorably upon this specific population because students applying ED demonstrate their commitment to UM. This is not to say that an inadmissible student will become admissible, but rather it is another component of an individual’s application that we will consider during our holistic review process. Aside from learning of your admission decision earlier, ED I applicants are considered for our Premier Scholarships. >>Top 5 reasons to apply for early admission What is Early Action? Early Action (EA) is a nonbinding admission plan available to incoming first-year students. Students receive an early response to their application but do not have to commit to UM if admitted. What are the advantages of applying Early Action? The chief advantage of EA is that it provides students with advanced notice of an admission decision and automatic consideration for our Premier Scholarships. For many students, this enables better planning. It is a great option if UM is one of your top choices. Which standardized test does the University of Miami prefer, ACT or SAT? There is no preference between the two exams. Do you superscore? Yes, we superscore both the ACT and SAT. Can I self-report my standardized test scores on the Common Application? Yes, you may self-report your scores on the Common Application. You will not need to superscore your own results or recalculate your scores. Simply enter your scores exactly as you receive them. Students who self-report test scores will be required to submit official score reports only if they are admitted and choose to enroll at UM. What is the latest date I can submit my ACT and/or SAT in order for them to be considered? We cannot guarantee that test scores received more than two weeks after an application deadline will be considered. What is the mailing address for application materials? UM encourages students to submit all application materials online through the Common Application, including required school documents. However, official transcripts/supporting documents may also be submitted electronically to mydocuments@miami.edu or mailed to: University of Miami Office of Undergraduate Admission P.O. Box 249117 Coral Gables, FL 33124-9117 If sending via FedEx, DHL, UPS, or courier: University of Miami Office of Undergraduate Admission 1320 S. Dixie Highway Gables One Tower, Suite 945 Coral Gables, FL 33146 Be sure to include your full name and date of birth on all correspondence. I have more than one letter of recommendation. Will they be accepted? The Office of Undergraduate Admission only requires one letter of recommendation from a teacher or a school counselor. Most applicants find this sufficient; and, therefore, we encourage you to only submit one. What if I submit my application on time but my letter of recommendation is not in by the deadline? While we understand that some documents will not arrive by the deadline, we ask that they arrive as close to the deadline as possible. What are my chances of being admitted? It is important to note the evaluation of applications by the Admission Committee is a comprehensive and holistic process that requires the applicant's candidacy to be evaluated on the basis of all the information provided in the application and within the context of that year's applicant pool. We are especially interested in those students we believe will contribute to, as well as benefit from, our community. While there is no minimum standardized test score or grade point average to be considered for admission, you can see the First-Year Class Profile for an overview of the typical academic achievement of recently admitted students for a sense of our selectivity. Are legacy relationships tracked in the admission review process? In the admission review process, legacy relationships are defined as applicants whose grandparents and/or parents graduated from UM. Siblings with ties to UM will be considered but do not constitute legacy status. The admission staff reviews data maintained in the Common Application to document legacy relationships as defined above. Does UM accept applications from home-schooled students? Yes, we do. In addition to meeting all the first-year admission requirements, we also encourage home-schooled students to submit a comprehensive explanation of their curriculum. Does UM accept applications from students with a GED? Yes; when applying with the GED, applicants must submit official high school transcripts up to the time of withdrawal as well as the official GED score report and diploma. Are interviews required for prospective students? We do not require admission interviews. Is demonstrated engagement a factor in the admission selection process? The decision whether or not to admit an applicant is based on a thorough review of the application and supporting documents within the context of that year’s applicant pool. The Admission Committee reserves the right to consider demonstrated engagement when evaluating applicants who have been deferred from Early Action to Regular Decision and applicants who have been waitlisted following the Regular Decision process. Although there isn’t the need to formally consider demonstrated engagement in Early Decision, the Admission Committee recognizes that applicants who apply under the Early Decision plan are arguably demonstrating the highest form of engagement. The admit rate in Early Decision is higher than in other admission plans. >>Demonstrated Interest at the U, Explained What constitutes demonstrated engagement? It could be attending a virtual high school visit or a LIVE admission information session. It also could be anything that constitutes a meaningful level of engagement with University ambassadors, such as admission counselors or current students employed by the Office of Undergraduate Admission. The Admission Committee does not favor one method of engagement over another. Providing information to prospective students and their families about the University of Miami campus community is important to us. Please let us know how we can help you learn more about UM and our unique value proposition. If you are unable to engage with us on campus, at your high school, or at a local college fair, we encourage you to take our virtual campus tour. How important are extracurricular activities? Extracurricular activities help us understand what is important to you, what you value, and how you might contribute to the campus community. The most effective applications are those that clearly and concisely communicate which activities have had the most meaning to a student. Please note that extracurricular activities can also include those outside school, such as personal commitments. What matters most is not the number of extracurricular activities presented, but rather the commitment level to a handful of meaningful activities beyond your required academic coursework. We do take particular note of significant local, regional, and national achievements. May I send a resume? Applicants should not submit additional resumes. Although the Common Application limits the number of activities you may report, this is typically more than enough space for most competitive applicants to communicate their most important and relevant commitments. You should only report your most relevant extracurricular activities, generally from grades 9-12, and those that have meant the most to you personally. What courses are needed in order to be admitted? The University of Miami does not require a set plan of secondary school coursework in order to be admitted as an undergraduate applicant; however, the Office of Undergraduate Admission recommends that applicants complete 20 units of secondary school coursework in the following five academic areas: English, mathematics, science, social science, and foreign language. Competitive applicants for admission meet the recommended units of secondary school coursework and typically have taken four units in a combination of all five academic areas at the highest levels available in their school settings. What is the minimum GPA required for admission? We understand that every school and grading system is different, which is why we do not set a minimum GPA. Admission counselors evaluate a student’s course rigor and academic achievement in the context of the school the applicant attends. Do you recalculate GPAs? If so, how? We recognize that high school GPAs are calculated in many different ways, which is why we will convert every applicants' GPA to an unweighted 4.0 scale. We separately evaluate the rigor of each applicant's chosen curriculum within the context of their high school environment. Do you consider rank in class? Class rank can be an instructive measure of an applicant’s academic performance relative to their peers and is considered thoughtfully in conjunction with other data the admission office gathers about any given high school. What if my high school does not rank its students? When evaluating a student attending a high school that does not rank its students, we rely on data provided by the school to gain a sense of the student’s performance relative to his or her peers. GPA and range distributions provide contextual information when the school does not release an exact rank in class. What if I did not take any AP/honors courses? How will it affect my admission chances? A student's curriculum plays a large role in the application review process. The Admission Committee will consider the rigor of your curriculum within the context of your high school environment. We like to see students challenging themselves with AP, honors, AICE, Dual Enrollment and/or IB courses (if they are available) as such courses will make your application more competitive. How do the grades I earn during my senior year of high school factor in my admission decision? We review an applicant’s rigor of curriculum and academic performance in grades 9-11. We also take into account the coursework an applicant will take in his or her senior year. For incoming first-year students, the Admission Committee reviews final high school transcripts to ensure that admitted students have maintained the level of academic achievement upon which the offer of admission was based. How can I receive credit for advanced courses? The University allows students to receive college credit hour toward graduation from the following programs: Advanced Placement International Baccalaureate Dual Enrollment Cambridge CAPE College Level Examination Program To have Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, or College Level Examination Program credit hours evaluated, the student must submit an official test result report to the Office of Undergraduate Admission. The University of Miami does not give credit hours for CLEP Foreign Language and General Examinations. Students taking dual enrollment courses (college courses taken while still in high school) must submit an official college transcript for review of potential transfer credit hours. A student must submit official transcripts or results no later than the end of the first semester of enrollment at the University of Miami for review. The University will accept no more than 60 credit hours from these programs to count toward the 120 credit hours required for graduation. Visit our Credit Information page for a full list of qualifying coursework and scores. If I attended the Summer Scholars Program at UM, do I have to send in my transcripts? You don’t need to worry about sending them with your application. If you are admitted and plan to enroll, then we will need them. At that time, contact the Summer Scholars Program and have them forward your transcripts to the Office of Undergraduate Admission. You can email the program at ssp@miami.edu. Be sure to include your full name and date of birth on all correspondence. I am not sure what I should declare as a major. If you are unsure or have not yet decided what you would like to study, you can choose “Undecided” on the Common Application. Undecided first-year students will have the opportunity to meet with their academic advisor to discuss interests and explore options during the school year. If I indicate “Undecided” on my application, will my application be at a disadvantage? We fully understand that many students have yet to determine their academic path. Your application will not be at a disadvantage if you select “Undecided” as your major. Are a certain number of students accepted into each major? Besides performance-based majors in the Frost School of Music and the Bachelor of Fine Arts program, your intended major does not factor into our decision. Can I switch my major after submitting my application? If you would like to change your intended major prior to you receiving your admission decision, login to your applicant portal to submit a “Major Change” form. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Undergraduate Admission 1306 Stanford Drive, Suite 1210 Coral Gables, FL 33146 TEL: 305-284-6000 TEL: 305-284-6000 FAX: 305-284-2507 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search myUM Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram tiktok Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback