Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Study Around the World Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Pursuing Knowledge Around the Globe Erasing boundaries leads to transformational learning, and Dartmouth students are forever changed by their study off campus and abroad. Just like their professors, undergraduates here are frequently on the move—traveling to wherever in the world they need to go to deepen their understanding of a topic and expand their cultural fluency. Video of Dartmouth in the World A Curriculum Designed for Explorers Our 10-week terms give you the flexibility to go abroad or study off campus whenever the need arises without interrupting your academic plan. Our language and foreign study programs provide the tools and the network. And our funding resources ensure that finances are not a barrier to participation. Study abroad and transfer aid Your financial aid travels with you if you study abroad through a Dartmouth program. Off-Campus programs More than half of Dartmouth undergraduates take advantage of at least one off-campus study experience before graduation. Programs are carefully integrated into the on-campus curriculum thanks to the direct involvement of Dartmouth professors and academic departments. Language Study Abroad (LSA) Dartmouth's LSA and Advanced Language Study Abroad (LSA+) programs take you and your Dartmouth classmates and professors deep into the culture of the language you are learning. Foreign Study Programs (FSPs) Explore the home and heart of a particular field of study—theater in London, environmental studies in South Africa, biology in Costa Rica—while immersing yourself in another culture. Exchange Spend a term enrolled at one of dozens of Dartmouth partner institutions from Seoul to San Diego, Milan to Atlanta. Transfer Term Although financial aid is not available for programs not run by Dartmouth, you can transfer up to four credits for a term of study at another approved institution. Internships and fellowships Whether you are seeking to land an internship abroad, promote international understanding, or build your language skills, Dartmouth supports you with a dozen on-campus programs, centers, and initiatives. Dartmouth In Video Play Button Internship in Costa Rica Alex Cotnoir '19 traveled to Costa Rica for his internship with the John Sloan Dickey Center for International Understanding. BACK Internship in Costa Rica Alex Cotnoir '19 traveled to Costa Rica for his internship with the John Sloan Dickey Center for International Understanding. Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Video of Alex Contour &amp;#039;19: Foreign-Study Program in Costa Rica https://www.youtube.com/embed/pqBYN4ynVf8?wmode=opaque&controls=&origin=http://admissions.dartmouth.edu&autoplay=1&mute=0 Play Button Foreign-Study Program in Costa Rica Angela Ortlieb ’19 embarked on a six-week biology research Foreign-Study Program in Costa Rica BACK Foreign-Study Program in Costa Rica Angela Ortlieb ’19 embarked on a six-week biology research Foreign-Study Program in Costa Rica Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Video of Angela Ortlieb &amp;#039;19: Foreign-Study Program in Costa Rica https://www.youtube.com/embed/LKirHg2dtVk?wmode=opaque&controls=&origin=http://admissions.dartmouth.edu&autoplay=1&mute=0 Play Button Foreign-Study Program in Italy Noah Sofio ’20, an economics and government major, spent a term in Rome as part of the Foreign-Study Program in Italy BACK Foreign-Study Program in Italy Noah Sofio ’20, an economics and government major, spent a term in Rome as part of the Foreign-Study Program in Italy Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Video of Noah Sofio ’20: Foreign-Study Program in Italy https://www.youtube.com/embed/wsHLwB0Cljg?wmode=opaque&controls=&origin=http://admissions.dartmouth.edu&autoplay=1&mute=0 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Big Green News Feed All News Stories On the Road with the Stretch Students spend a term learning how the Earth works. Students Get a Firsthand View of Foreign Policy Work in Qatar The Dickey Center’s War and Peace Fellows meet with policy leaders in the Gulf state. Student Travelers Help Younger Children ‘Reach the World’ Foreign Study Programs are partnering with a nonprofit to link to local schools. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog Rockefeller Global Leadership Program's Trip to Boston This weekend, I took a bus down to Boston for an excursion sponsored by The Nelson A. Rockefeller Center for Public Policy and the Social Sciences, commonly referred to by students as "Rocky." Read More Sydney Wuu 2024 My Language Documentation Class in Hilo, Hawaiʻi! During my junior winter, I took LING 54: Language Documentation while abroad in Hilo, Hawaiʻi, where we worked with the Satawalese language! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Triathlon Training: An Amazing Spring Break! What better way to spend Spring Break than training with the Triathlon team in Florida? Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 Winter in Hawaiʻi: Linguistics DSP 2022 Highlights! As I return to campus to start my junior spring, I can't help scrolling through my photos and seeing all of the amazing experiences our Linguistics DSP had in Hawaiʻi. Here are some highlights. Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Why You Should Study Abroad at Dartmouth Learning doesn't have to just happen in a classroom on campus. It can happen away from campus when you study abroad, where yes, you'll learn differently, but you'll also live differently in the best way. Everyone should study abroad: here's why. Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 A Beginner's Guide to Studying Abroad Read for a quick summary of Dartmouth's study abroad opportunities! Read More Robin Martinez 2023 Breaking the Bubble—My First Time out of the Country! Dartmouth has the reputation of being a small school tucked away in the woods. Far from being isolated, however, travel is easily accessible, if you so desire. Read More Emily Hemelt 2025 Study Abroad Programming! The English and Creative Writing FSP in London provided several opportunities for my peers and I to visit famous landmarks. These trips were highlights of the study abroad and allowed me to see places I might not otherwise have visited! Read More Estelle Stedman 2023 4 Winterims, In (and Mostly Out of) the Woods Dartmouth's 6-week winter break is strange to get used to at first, but it can be a wonderful time to relax and reflect. I'll be doing just that in this post, by remembering some notable moments from my four Dartmouth winterims. Read More Angie Janumala 2022 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback