Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Undergraduate Admissions Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy First-Year ApplicantsIt all starts here Transfer ApplicantsEasy transition Check Application Status Costs & Aid Apply for Aid Financial Aid Eligibility Costs to Attend Financial Aid Calculator Value of a Cornell Education Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Facts Frequently Asked Questions Cornell A-Z Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections You are here Home » Learn » Veterans at Cornell print share Facebook Twitter Veterans at Cornell Cornell has a proud military history dating back to 1862 and the Morrill Land Grant Act requiring every land grant institution to include military training in its curriculum. As the land grant university of New York State, Cornell has offered instruction in military science from the university’s inception. We are proud of our students who have graduated from Cornell and gone on to serve in the military and we are proud of our veterans who have made the choice to attend Cornell after they have served our country. Today, Cornell is home to about 90 undergraduate student veterans/current servicemembers and over 400 veterans that work or study at Cornell. Veteran Admissions and Enrollment Support Cornell’s Military/Veteran Admissions and Enrollment Services team works to support veterans and current members of the military from the prospective student phase through the applications for admissions, financial aid, veterans education benefits, and the enrollment process. Please reach out to us at veteranadmissionsandenrollment@cornell.edu. We look forward to working with you! Apply to Cornell Cornell offers two options for students when they apply. You can apply as a first-year student or as a transfer student. To be considered a first-year student you must have graduated high school but earned fewer than 12 credits at a college or university. To be considered a transfer student, you must have graduated high school and earned 12 or more credits at another college or university since graduation. Also, if you’ve enrolled as a full-time student at another institution, you’re considered a transfer applicant. Admissions committees will select a cohort of applicants with U.S. military service to participate in the Veterans Summer Bridge Program. For questions about admissions, please contact veteranadmissions@cornell.edu. Financial Aid for Veterans The undergraduate degree-granting colleges of Cornell University participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program, the supplement to the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill® education benefit. For more information about veteran education benefits, please visit the University Registrar website. For more information about financial aid, please contact the Office of Financial Aid and Student Employment at finaid@cornell.edu. Veteran Spotlight Meet some of our current undergraduate student veterans and recent graduates. Key Partnerships VetLink Cornell is proud to be a partner of VetLink. In 2015, Service to School (S2S) launched VetLink, which partners with some of the best colleges and universities in the U.S. As part of that special relationship, VetLink schools work closely with S2S to identify competitive applicants and have also agreed to accept an addendum to the admission application specifically for VetLink applicants. We encourage veterans and current members of the military to utilize the VetLink service. Warrior-Scholar Project Cornell is a proud host campus for the Warrior-Scholar Project. The Warrior-Scholar Project offers immersive one and two-week academic workshops or "boot camps." These workshops are offered free of charge to enlisted veterans at some of America’s top colleges and universities. Recent News Highlights For those who dream, Cornell is your place, says Farid Ferdows ’21 New Program House Opens, Creating Community Among Student Veterans Boots in the books: Veterans succeed at academic prep camp Marine Sniper Turned Cornell Men's Lacrosse Faceoff Specialist Recounts Journey Warrior-Scholar Project helps veterans adapt to demands of the classroom OPINION: ‘Far too few veterans are enrolled in our elite undergraduate institutions’ Cornell Creates New Veterans Summer Bridge Program Rawlings engages veterans through ancient texts on war Other Resoources Cornell Undergraduate Veterans Association Student Veterans Advisor Cornell ROTC Cornell Military Science Program Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans with Disabilities Frequently Asked Questions Does Cornell accept the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill®? What costs aren’t covered by the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill®? How do I apply for VA benefits? How do I use my educational benefit at Cornell? Where do I submit my VA educational benefit and/or Yellow Ribbon paperwork? When should I submit my COE and Yellow Ribbon Application? If I’m eligible for Yellow Ribbon, should I also apply for financial aid? Who are the on-campus contacts for questions regarding education benefits? Is there housing for veterans and their families? Does Cornell offer credits for military training? How is my military training and experience considered during the admission process? Does Cornell accept the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill®? Yes, Cornell welcomes applications from veterans and dependents who are eligible for education benefits offered by the Department of Veterans Affairs, including the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program. What costs aren’t covered by the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill®? The undergraduate degree-granting colleges of Cornell University participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program, the supplement to the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill® education benefit. Under the program, Cornell and the VA will combine to provide the difference between the student's Cornell tuition and the national cap on the benefit. For more information about veterans education benefits, please visit the University Registrar website. How do I apply for VA benefits? You may qualify for more than one type of VA education benefit. Because applying for a certain education benefit could affect your eligibility for others, you should consider your options before selecting a benefit program. The VA provides resources to help you choose the best benefits for you and your family: Comparison of education-benefit programs Benefit estimate calculator If you still have questions after reviewing these resources, please reach out to our Student Veterans Advisor, Mary Fisk, at sva@cornell.edu. How do I use my educational benefit at Cornell? The first step for using your educational benefits at Cornell is to provide us with the Certificate of Eligibility (COE) you received from your VA benefits administrator. See the VA website for instructions on how to apply for this certificate. For assistance, contact your regional VA office. Where do I submit my VA educational benefit and/or Yellow Ribbon paperwork? Submit a copy of your Certificate of Eligibility from the VA to the Office of the University Registrar. When should I submit my COE and Yellow Ribbon Application? It’s recommended that you submit them as soon as you're admitted to Cornell. If I’m eligible for Yellow Ribbon, should I also apply for financial aid? Students who are eligible for 9/11 and Yellow Ribbon benefits generally do not qualify for financial aid from Cornell. However, if you’re undecided about whether or not you want to use your VA benefits or if you have multiple students who will be sharing benefits, you may still want to complete the full financial aid application so we can determine your eligibility for financial aid. All students who receive veteran’s education benefits are still eligible for federal aid – loans and Pell Grants. Students who wish to be considered for these aid sources are required to complete the FAFSA application. Who are the on-campus contacts for questions regarding education benefits? Student Veterans Advisor sva@cornell.edu Cornell VA Representative vaedben@cornell.edu Financial Aid (Yellow Ribbon Program) finaid@cornell.edu Is there housing for veterans and their families? The University and the surrounding Ithaca community invite veterans to live and learn on Cornell’s historic campus, “Far above Cayuga’s waters.” Visit Cornell Maps to navigate your way around campus and Tompkins County. On-campus, Cornell offers a wide variety of residence halls, program houses, and townhouses which foster communities of first-year, upper-level undergraduate, and graduate and professional students. Visit the Living @ Cornell website for details. The University provides extensive off-campus living and housing assistance, education, resources, and referral services; contact offcampusliving@cornell.edu for assistance and information. Families are essential allies in encouraging the academic success and well-being of all students. Cornell’s Students with Families website provides a gateway to resources available for students, spouses and partners, and children. The University provides a wide variety of services designed to assist spouses and partners with their own ambitions and goals, along with essential support for families with child(ren). Does Cornell offer credits for military training? While all potential transfer credits are independently evaluated by the undergraduate college/school that offers a student admission, we are not typically able to award credits for military training experiences. How is my military training and experience considered during the admission process? Military training and experience are among the many factors that we consider in our holistic admission review process. With this noted, candidates with appropriate academic preparation (either in high school or college) and the ability to articulate their intellectual interests as part of the application essay, are often the most successful candidates. Connect with Cornell Undergraduate Admissions on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, and our admissions blog! GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Web site at www.benefits.va.gov/gibill. Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Tweets by @CornellVets Contact Us From your first questions about Cornell to the completion of your application, the Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you find the information you need. Website Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. University Privacy Statement Undergraduate Admissions Office Cornell University 410 Thurston Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 admissions@cornell.edu Tel: 607.255.5241 Fax: 607.255.0659 © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment Admitted Students