Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Missing Application Materials Frequently asked questions about missing application materials Breadcrumb Home Frequently Asked Questions How do I track my materials? To check whether items have been received and processed, please review the Application Checklist through your online Brown Applicant Portal. As we receive and process thousands of documents throughout the admission cycle, we are unable to provide updates on the status of individual items or confirm the receipt of materials that are not formally required. Please do not call or email the Office of College Admission regarding the status of your application materials; the Applicant Portal will indicate the most up-to-date information. What if my Brown Applicant Portal indicates that my application is incomplete, yet I am certain that the missing document(s) have been submitted? In the case of paper documents, you should immediately arrange to have a duplicate document sent to the Office of College Admission. It may be that an item was delayed or lost in the mail or even that your name was smudged on a form and we were unable to match the document with your application. If your school and teachers have submitted documents online using the Common Application or Naviance, please log into your Common Application account to verify that documents have been submitted to Brown. Please remember to allow ample time around our deadlines for documents to be received and processed by our office. Once all materials received have been processed, we will reach out to applicants still missing required documents to request that these materials be sent again. We appreciate your patience as we process the many documents received throughout the admission process Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Missing Application Materials Open details for Missing Application Materials Bookmark this Page