Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Academics / Earning College Credit / Earning College Credit in High School custom css-js - global Earning College Credit in High School AP, IB & A Level Exams First-time freshmen who have taken college courses, dual enrollment courses, and Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate exams may be awarded credit for courses at Tulane. Please read the below guidelines on each type of college credit awarded to incoming first-time freshmen. If you are a transfer applicant, please click here for information on transferring credit specifically for transfer students. Dual Enrollment Course Credit Students may have up to 15 credits of dual enrollment coursework considered for transfer credit if it meets the following qualifications (this does not guarantee the approval of your credit transfer*): You earned a grade of C or better Course was listed in the official catalog of the regionally accredited college or university from which you earned credit (Please note that some credits may be denied for applicability to a professional school's major/minor degree requirement due to professional accreditation standards.) Course was taught by faculty of the college/university (this includes faculty who also teach at your high school) College Course Credit Students may have college coursework considered for transfer credit without a predetermined credit limit if it meets the following qualifications (this does not guarantee the approval of your credit transfer*): You earned a grade of C or better Course was listed in the official catalog of the regionally accredited college or university from which you earned credit. Please note that some credits may be denied for applicability to a professional school's major/minor degree requirement due to professional accreditation standards. Course was composed primarily of degree-seeking college students Course was taught by faculty of the college/university You enrolled, participated, and were evaluated in the same way(s) as college students enrolled in the course. Courses sponsored by a college or university but taught by high school teachers and/or offered primarily to high school students will not be considered for transfer credit to Tulane University, even if a college transcript is issued. *Courses are evaluated after an applicant has been admitted. For more information, please contact Academic Advising. AP and IB Exam Credit Tulane awards credit for scores of 4 or 5 on most AP exams and scores of 5, 6, or 7 on most higher-level IB exams. For more information, visit our page on AP and IB credit. Majors & Minors Degrees & Requirements Core Curriculum Accelerated Degree Programs TIDES Scholars Programs Earning College Credit AP, IB & A Level Exams Facilities & Resources Libraries Technology Advising Career Services Art, Culture, & Research Centers Technology Connection Did You Know? At the 2000 Olympics held in Sydney, Australia, Barry Spanier—director of the Tulane University Marching Band—was the artistic director for the International Olympic Band. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University