Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us Academics How to Apply Tuition & Aid Student Life Connect About Us Search Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Virtual Visit We are bringing our campus to you! Our visit options are available to all and are accessible in a variety of ways to ensure you have every opportunity to get to know the U, get answers to your questions, and connect with us virtually. Virtual Admission Information Sessions Join us virtually to learn more about the academics, hands-on experiences, student life, and culturally rich environment that make a University of Miami education unique. Your admission counselor host will also cover the application process and financial aid, followed by time for your questions. Register All About the U Academics Explore the academic depth and breadth of a University of Miami's education. Join us for virtual information sessions to learn more about the curriculum and opportunities in the school or college home to your major of choice. Representatives and current students from each of our nine undergraduate schools and colleges will provide an overview of their area before opening up for Q&A – so bring your questions! May 17 & 18 at 5:30 p.m. ET Register Financial Aid 101 Learn how financial aid works at the University of Miami during Financial Aid 101 virtual information sessions! An expert financial aid advisor will explain common terms, review the application process, share tips to making smart financial decisions, and discuss how the University of Miami is bringing a top-tier education within reach. After the presentation, they will take your questions. Register International Information Session Sign up to attend a virtual information session designed for prospective international students like you! An admission counselor who specializes in working with international applicants will cover the academics, hands-on experiences, student life, and culturally rich environment that make a University of Miami education unique. They will also walk you through the application process, financial aid, and answer your questions live. Register Transfer Tuesdays Thinking about transferring to the U? Join us virtually for a Transfer Tuesday information session to learn about transferring credits, academics, admission, financial aid, and what it means to be a part of the ’Canes Family! Register Information Session On Demand Have More Questions? Sign-Up to Stay Connected. Campus & School Tours Launch Experience Check out what our students have to say about their favorite spots on campus, and see 360-degree views of the classrooms, rehearsal halls, labs, and student centers that make up our Coral Gables and Virginia Key campuses. We hope you use this tool to get a feel for what it’s like to be a ’Cane! School of Architecture Take a virtual walking tour featuring the award-winning Murphy Studio, and a look inside their labs, studios, and small classroom spaces. Frost School of Music Tour the concert halls, rehearsal spaces, recording studio, and more to see where Frost students grow as musicians. Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Tour the Virginia Key campus to see inside labs, the dock of FG Walton Smith Research vessel, and more. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Undergraduate Admission 1306 Stanford Drive, Suite 1210 Coral Gables, FL 33146 TEL: 305-284-6000 TEL: 305-284-6000 FAX: 305-284-2507 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search myUM Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram tiktok Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback