Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Apply > Honors Applying for Honors Freshman Transfer Interested in an honors program at The University of Texas at Austin? You can start the process to apply for Freshman Honors Programs by indicating interest on the admissions application and responding to the short-answer questions(s) of the program of your choice within the application. Not ready to apply for an honors program right away? You may also apply by using the separate online honors application available after submitting your ApplyTexas or Coalition application for admission and gaining access to MyStatus.or by completing our online honors application.” Honors Application Deadline Extension: Fall 2022 The ApplyTexas or Coalition summer/fall application is due December 1. Students may submit the honors application (via MyStatus/Honors tab) and supporting credentials until Friday, December 10 (11:59 p.m. Central). The honors application To apply for freshman honors indicate interest on the admissions application and respond to the program specific short-answer question(s). If you decide to apply for freshman honors after you have submitted your admissions application complete the online honors application once gaining access to MyStatus. More Information Open Date Fall Admission Required Majors Writing Prompts Application Open Date Like the summer/fall admissions application, the honors application process opens on Aug. 1. After you submit your admissions application, you’ll receive an email from us that includes your UT EID, which you'll use to log in to MyStatus and the Document Upload System. It may take 2–3 days for you to receive your EID. Fall Admission In order to be considered for a freshman honors program, you must apply for fall admission. Spring and summer applicants are not eligible. Required Majors Honors programs are open—and the honors application is available—only to students who apply to certain majors. Based on the majors you select on your admissions application, you may be eligible to apply to one or more honors programs. Canfield Business Honors Unspecified Business (Business must be the first-choice selection.) Electrical and Computer Engineering Honors (ECE) Electrical and Computer Engineering in the Cockrell School of Engineering Engineering Honors Any major in the Cockrell School of Engineering Honors Electrical and Computer Engineering and Business (ECB) Both Electrical and Computer Engineering and Business, one as your first and the other as your second choice. Your first choice major should be the one you are most interested in Liberal Arts Honors Any major in the College of Liberal Arts (First-choice selection of a Liberal Arts major is strongly encouraged.) Moody College Honors Any major in the Moody College of Communication Natural Sciences Honors Any major in the College of Natural Sciences (Applicants to Turing Scholars must select Computer Science.) Plan II Honors Plan II or any major in the College of Liberal Arts Texas Honors Computer Science and Business (Texas CSB) Both Computer Science and Business, one as your first and the other as your second choice. Your first choice major should be the one you are most interested in. If you want to change your first- and/or second-choice major(s) so that you can apply to an honors program, email us. Include your full name, UT EID and updated first- and/or second-choice majors. If your request is approved, you will gain access to the honors application within 3-5 business days. Writing Prompts Program-specific writing prompts or acknowledgements include: Canfield Business Honors Discuss a single piece of business news in the last year that has affected your view on the need for a high-quality business education, and tell us why this has affected or reinforced your desire for a business education. You do not need to go into detail about this piece of business news — a quick reference to the event will suffice. It can be something that occurred in your community, in the U.S., or internationally. Spend the majority of your response on how this event affected your views. Please limit your response to no more than 250 words. Electrical and Computer Engineering Honors (ECE) Describe your significant activities, employment, and achievements, particularly those relevant to the study of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Also describe your educational and career goals. Please limit your response to no more than 500 words. Engineering Honors The Cockrell School of Engineering awards merit scholarships to first-year participants in the Engineering Honors Program. Additionally, participants can be considered for honors housing. Selections are made by reviewing the standard materials required to apply for admission to the university. No additional essays or application materials are required, but submitting an expanded résumé is recommended. If you would like to be considered for the Engineering Honors Program, please acknowledge your interest on your application. Honors Electrical and Computer Engineering and Business (ECB) Honors Electrical and Computer Engineering and Business (ECB) is a powerful dual degree program looking for students who are dedicated to both an electrical and computer engineering and business honors education. Why do you see this as a combination of skills for your career goals? What have you done in high school, in the classroom and outside, to prepare you for honors engineering and business course work? Please limit your response to no more than 500 words. Human Ecology Honors Briefly describe why you have chosen to apply to the School of Human Ecology Honors Program, specifically Nutritional Sciences or Human Development and Family Sciences Honors. Please limit your response to no more than 250 words. Liberal Arts Honors Students in Liberal Arts Honors embrace the opportunity to delve into their academic interests, discover new realms of intellectual inquiry, and chart their own honors path through an interdisciplinary education. Tell us why the depth, breadth, and flexibility of a Liberal Arts education are ideally suited to exploring the areas of study that excite you. Please limit your response to no more than 250 words. Moody College Honors It has been said that knowledge is power, but it could also be said that communication is power. Discuss an example from history, current events, a book or film, or from your own life that supports this perspective. Please limit your response to no more than 250 words. Natural Sciences Honors Each of the three CNS Honors programs has a distinct profile. Why do you want to become part of the Dean's Scholars, Health Science Scholars, or Polymathic Scholars community? Please limit your response to no more than 350 words. Plan II Honors Answer the following prompts: It’s 2070 and a renowned biographer has just published the story of your life. What is the title of the book and what are some of your greatest accomplishments and challenges over the course of the decades? Specifically, how did your experiences in 2020 influence the person you would become? Please limit your response to no more than 250 words. Help us get to know you better. Please write five sentences (numbered 1–5) that give us some insight into you, your life, your interests and your experiences. There are no right answers — feel free to be creative and think outside the box. Texas Honors Computer Science and Business (Texas CSB) Texas CSB is an innovative dual degree program looking for students who are dedicated to both computer science and business. Why do you see this as a powerful combination of skills for your career goals? What have you done in high school to prepare you for computer science and business course work? Please limit your response to no more than 500 words. Turing Scholars Describe your significant activities, employment, and achievements, particularly those relevant to the study of computer science. Also describe your educational and career goals. Please limit your response to no more than 500 words. Program-specific requirements Complete any additional requirements for the programs to which you are applying. Most freshman honors programs also require a separate expanded résumé and some require one letter of recommendation. More Information Additional Materials Item Submission Additional Materials Program-specific application requirements include: Canfield Business Honors Résumé A letter of recommendation from a teacher (not a counselor or principal) Electrical and Engineering Honors (ECE) Résumé A letter of recommendation from a math or science teacher Honors Electrical and Engineering and Business (ECB) Résumé A letter of recommendation from a teacher (not a counselor or principal) Liberal Arts Honors Résumé Natural Sciences Honors (including Turing Scholars and Human Ecology) Résumé A letter of recommendation from a math or science teacher Plan II Honors Résumé Texas Honors Computer Science and Business (Texas CSB) Résumé A letter of recommendation from a teacher (not a counselor or principal) Submitting Your Items Your expanded resume and letters of recommendation may be submitted within MyStatus using the Document Upload System after you submit your admissions application. Within Document Upload you can upload letters of recommendation yourself or you can request for someone to submit on your behalf. Letters of recommendation may also be submitted directly from your school via Naviance/Edocs or the Coalition for College application. Self-report any AP or IB scores you may have taken or plan to take on your résumé. Track Your Status Track the completion of your honors application in MyStatus—see the Honors tab. Note: Additional honors programs exist within many academic departments. These departmental honors programs typically do not accept applications from first-year students. Contact your academic advisor to learn more about programs and their application processes. Deadlines Priority November 1 Notification by February 1 Regular December 1 Notification by March 1 Extended December 10 Supporting materials due by December 10. Honors programs review applications completed by both the priority and regular application deadlines. All programs consider applications completed by Dec. 1. To be considered on time, items must arrive by the deadline. Quick Links Contact Us Admissions FAQ Testing FAQ Holistic Review Decisions Next: Back to Apply Go to Admission Honors Housing admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022