Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Application Checklist Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Academic Preparation During the admission process, our goal is to find students who will thrive in Princeton’s rigorous academic environment. With this in mind, we offer a suggested course of study to help students prepare for Princeton. This is not a list of admission requirements. We understand that not all secondary schools offer the same academic opportunities, and we give full consideration to students who don’t have access to all of these courses. If possible, we expect students will complete the following courses before beginning study at Princeton: Four years of English (including continued practice in writing) Four years of mathematics (including calculus for students interested in engineering) Four years of one language At least two years of laboratory science (including physics and chemistry for students interested in engineering) At least two years of history In addition, most candidates have had some study in the visual or performing arts. Whenever you can, challenge yourself with the most rigorous courses possible, such as honors, Advanced Placement (AP) and dual-enrollment courses. We will evaluate the International Baccalaureate (IB), A-levels or another diploma in the context of the program’s curriculum. Consult your school adviser or counselor to plan a program to help you succeed at whatever college or university you attend. Advanced Placement Policy If you are taking advanced or college-level courses in high school, you might be able to take advantage of Princeton’s Advanced Placement (AP) policy. Through this policy, you may receive recognition for your previous advanced or college-level work. The policy allows you to be placed in courses that match your level of preparation and, in some cases, may allow you to skip introductory courses and proceed to upper-division course work. You can find detailed information about Princeton’s AP policy on the Office of the Dean of the College website, or review our frequently asked questions. Academic Preparation General Education Requirements For A.B. and B.S.E. Degree Candidates Learn More Academic Preparation AP Credit Reference Table Explore Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746