Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Academics At the UW, anything is possible. We break the rules, imagine change — then bring it to life. We’re restless to make the world a better place, and we want to do it together. Our students learn and engage in the classroom, outside the UW and around the world. Scroll downPurple downward facing arrow There’s a job for that Whatever you’re into, there’s a way to turn it into a job. Take a short quiz to learn what UW alumni with similar interests have done since graduating. Take the quiz Explore career pathways Discover your purpose and connect it to college and careers. Gain insights on your interests, values, and personality. Explore majors, career paths, and internships that align with your unique gifts.Go to PathwayU What do Huskies pursue after graduation? See what recent graduates are doing within a few months after degree completion.Go to Student Outcomes Honors Research Pre-law Pre-health Study abroad Experiential learning Rankings #9 Undergraduate Entrepreneurship Program in the West entrepreneur.com, 2022 #1 in Oceanography Center for World University Rankings, 2020 #2 in Nursing US News & World Report, 2021 Majors What ignites your love for learning? World languages, computing, business? So many paths lead from a single interest. With 180+ majors, the UW can help you find the focus that’s right for you. Learn more Join the email list Get tips from our Admissions team on: How to submit the strongest application Important deadlines Majors and academic programs Campus tours and UW events in your area Join The UW offers a breadth of academic programs, many of which are ranked among the best in the country. Academics Home Academics Careers Experiential learning Honors Majors Understanding your assigned major Understanding your assigned major Study Abroad Research Course catalog Pre-Law Pre-Health University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA