Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Programs by Campus You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information We believe education should be accessible. This is why several of our programs can be completed at our different campuses and online, so no matter where you live, you have access to a Temple education. Below is a list of our campuses, and the undergraduate programs available at each location. Temple University Center City, Health Sciences Center and Podiatric Medicine are not included, as they house mainly graduate and professional programs. Undergraduate students can take select courses at our Center City campus. Contents Main CampusAmbler CampusRome CampusJapan Campus Main Campus Located close to the heart of central Philadelphia, Temple’s Main Campus is the home of numerous new building projects and a community of more than 15,000 students living on or around campus. You can pursue the following programs at Main Campus. Art and Architecture The following programs in the Tyler School of Art and Architecture are offered on Main Campus. Architecture Art Education Art History Art Therapy BFA with Teaching Certification Ceramics Community Development Facilities Management Fibers and Materials Studies Glass Graphic and Interactive Design Historic Preservation Horticulture (two- or four-year program)* Landscape Architecture * Metals/Jewelry/CAD-CAM Painting and Drawing Photography Printmaking Sculpture Visual Studies *Major course requirements only available at Ambler Campus. Business The following programs in the Fox School of Business are offered on Main Campus. Accounting (available online) Actuarial Science Business Management (available online) Economics Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Finance Financial Planning Human Resource Management (available online) International Business Legal Studies (available online) Management Information Systems Marketing (available online) Real Estate Risk Management and Insurance Statistical Science and Data Analysis Supply Chain Management (available online) Undeclared Education and Human Development The following programs in the College of Education and Human Development are offered on Main Campus. Adult and Organizational Development Career and Technical Education Early Childhood-Elementary Education Human Development and Community Engagement Middle-Grades Education (4–8) Language Arts Mathematics Mathematics and Language Arts Mathematics and Science Science Science and Language Arts Social Studies Secondary Education English Mathematics Science Social Studies World Languages Engineering The following programs in the College of Engineering are offered on Main Campus. Bioengineering Civil Engineering Construction Engineering Technology Electrical Engineering Engineering Engineering Technology Environmental Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Mechanical Engineering Undeclared Liberal Arts The following programs in the College of Liberal Arts are offered on Main Campus. Africology and African American Studies American Studies Anthropology Asian Studies Chinese Classics Criminal Justice Economics English Environmental Studies French Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies Geography and Urban Studies German Language and Cultural Studies Global Studies History Interdisciplinary German Studies Italian Italian Studies Latin American Studies Mathematical Economics Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity Philosophy Political Science Psychology Religion Sociology Spanish Undeclared Media and Communication The following programs in the Klein College of Media and Communication are offered on Main Campus. Advertising Communication and Social Influence Communication Studies Journalism Media Studies and Production Public Relations Undeclared Music and Dance The following programs in the Boyer College of Music and Dance are offered on Main Campus. Dance Music Jazz Studies/Composition Jazz Studies/Performance (Instrumental, Keyboard or Vocal) Music BS Music Composition Music Education Music Education with Jazz Studies component Music History Music Technology Music Theory Music Therapy Music Therapy with Jazz Studies Performance (Instrumental, Keyboard or Vocal) Public Health The following programs in the College of Public Health are offered on Main Campus. Exercise and Sport Science Health Information Management (fall transfers only) Health Professions Kinesiology Nursing (fall only) Pre-Health Information Management Public Health Recreational Therapy Speech, Language and Hearing Science Social Work The following programs in the School of Social Work are offered on Main Campus. Social Work Science and Technology The following programs in the College of Science and Technology are offered on Main Campus. Applied Mathematics Biochemistry Biology Biology with Teaching (TUteach) Biophysics Chemistry Chemistry with Teaching (TUteach) Computer Science Computer Science and Physics Data Science Earth and Space Science with Teaching (TUteach) Environmental Science General Science with Teaching (TUteach) Geology Information Science and Technology Mathematical Economics Mathematics Mathematics and Computer Science Mathematics and Computer Science with Teaching (TUteach) Mathematics and Physics Mathematics and Technology with Teaching (TUteach) Mathematics with Teaching (TUteach) Natural Sciences Neuroscience: Cellular and Molecular Physics Physics with Teaching (TUteach) Pre-Pharmacy Undeclared Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management The following programs in the School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management are offered on Main Campus. Event and Entertainment Management Sport and Recreation Management Tourism and Hospitality Management Theater, Film and Media Arts The following programs in the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts are offered on Main Campus. Film and Media Arts Musical Theater Theater University Studies Undeclared If you haven’t selected a school or college by the time you apply, you’ll have the guidance of the Division of University Studies and up to two years to decide on a major. Ambler Campus Ambler Campus is located in Montgomery County about 30 minutes outside of Philadelphia. The following majors can be started at Ambler Campus (first-year students only), and completed on Main Campus. Majors that can be taken entirely on Ambler Campus are noted. Art and Architecture The following programs in the Tyler School of Art and Architecture are offered on Ambler Campus. Art History Horticulture (two- or four-year program)* Landscape Architecture** *Horticulture can be completed at Ambler Campus. **Landscape Architecture starts on Main Campus and must be completed at Ambler. Business The following programs in the Fox School of Business are offered on Ambler Campus. Accounting* Business Management* Economics Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Finance Financial Planning Human Resource Management* International Business Legal Studies Management Information Systems Marketing* Real Estate Risk Management and Insurance Supply Chain Management* Undeclared *Accounting, Business Management, Human Resource Management, Marketing and Supply Chain Management are the only majors that can be completed at Ambler Campus. Online courses may be required. Education The following programs in the College of Education and Human Development are offered on Ambler Campus. Adult and Organizational Development Human Development and Community Engagement Liberal Arts The following programs in the College of Liberal Arts are offered on Ambler Campus. Africology and African-American Studies American Studies Anthropology Criminal Justice Economics English Environmental Studies Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies Geography and Urban Studies Global Studies History Latin American Studies Liberal Studies Philosophy Political Science Psychology* Religion Sociology Spanish Undeclared *Psychology is the only major that can be completed entirely at Ambler Campus Temple Rome Temple offers a Rome Entry Year program, in which students have the opportunity to start their undergraduate studies in Rome and finish their degree in Philadelphia at Temple’s Main Campus. Learn more about the program. The following majors can be started at Temple Rome. Art and Architecture The following program in the Tyler School of Art and Architecture is offered at Temple Rome. Art History Business The following programs in the Fox School of Business are offered at Temple Rome. Accounting Business Management Economics Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management Finance Human Resource Management International Business Legal Studies Management Information Systems Marketing Real Estate Risk Management and Insurance Supply Chain Management Education The following programs in the College of Education and Human Development are offered at Temple Rome. Adult and Organizational Development Human Development and Community Engagement Secondary Education English Social Studies World Languages Liberal Arts The following programs in the College of Liberal Arts are offered at Temple Rome. Africology and African-American Studies American Studies Anthropology Criminal Justice Classics Economics English Environmental Studies Global Studies Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies Geography and Urban Studies History Italian Italian Studies Jewish Studies Philosophy Political Science Psychology Religion Sociology Media and Communication The following programs in the Klein College of Media and Communication are offered at Temple Rome. Advertising Communication Studies Journalism Media Studies and Production Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management The following programs in the School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management are offered at Temple Rome. Sport and Recreation Management Tourism and Hospitality Management Theater, Film and Media Arts The following program in the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts are offered at Temple Rome. Film and Media Arts Temple Japan Temple University, Japan Campus is a nationally recognized institution offering undergraduate, graduate and non-degree programs in two of Japan’s most exciting cities, Tokyo and Osaka. The following majors can be pursued at Temple Japan. Art Asian Studies Communication Studies Economics General Studies International Affairs International Business Studies Japanese Political Science Psychological Studies Go back to AcademicsMore in Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info