Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Recorded Information Session You are here Home Visit Information Sessions Recorded Information Session About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Live Virtual Information Sessions Learn more about Temple at one of our live virtual information sessions. If you’re a prospective first-year student, register for the Weekday Information Session or Saturday Information Session. Prospective transfer students are encouraged to register for Transfer Tuesday or the Saturday Information Session. Weekday Information Session Transfer Tuesday Saturday Information Session Recorded Information Session and Tour Get to know Temple from wherever you are. In this information session, Hallie Lupinski, ’17, and Courtney Bradshaw, ’19, guide first-year, transfer and international students through our academic and research opportunities; the application process; and how to navigate cost, aid and scholarships. You can watch the information session in full, which is about 20 minutes, or watch the topics that most interest you first. We broke down the full session into shorter sections for easy navigation. You can also take a virtual tour of Main Campus, and get a closer look at residence halls, dining halls and campus recreation spaces. Contents Full Information Session1. Welcome to Temple University: Fast Facts2. Academic Programs3. Research Opportunities4. International Campuses and Study Abroad5. Internships, Jobs and Alumni Network6. Application Process7. Cost, Aid and Scholarships8. Student Experience View the Entire Information Session This session includes every topic in one video, except for student life and the Main Campus tour, which are presented through a series of student-created videos and a virtual tour experience. Video Transcript Welcome to Temple University Hallie Lupinski Hello and welcome to Temple University. My name is Hallie, and I’m here to tell you all about Temple and what it can offer you. I work in the admissions team and I'm also a proud Temple grad. I’ll be joined by my colleague, Courtney, who you’ll hear from shortly. But before we get into more detail, let’s start with some basics. Temple University is a large public research institution located in the heart of Philadelphia. Here at Temple, we have a diverse and vibrant student body and offer our students many undergraduate programs of study to choose from. We house those programs within 17 schools and colleges, which includes five professional schools. What do I mean when I say schools and colleges? It’s how we organize our academic programs here. For example, the College of Science and Technology houses, you guessed it, science and technology programs. Interdisciplinary work is a big part of your academic experience here at Temple. So expect to learn across several schools and colleges during your time here. Students can also choose from a wide variety of cultural, athletic and social activities. Whether it’s joining a club on campus or going to Lincoln Financial Field to watch the Temple football team, there’s truly something for everyone at Temple. And we offer countless opportunities for students to get connected and get involved. Temple’s presence is strong in Philadelphia, and we have a huge alumni network right here in our region. Temple graduates live and work all around the world. Courtney Bradshaw Hi, I’m Courtney. I’m also on the admissions team and a proud Temple grad. Before we get into some of the details of what Temple can offer you, let's talk about our history. Despite its size and reach today, Temple has humble roots as a university. The school was founded in North Philadelphia in 1884 by Dr. Russell Conwell, a well-known minister in the city. One day after services, a young working man came up to him and said, “Dr. Conwell, I want a higher education, but I don't have the time or the resources to go to school full time. What can I do?” Dr. Conwell quickly offered to tutor the man and it wasn’t long before he was teaching several dozen students, all working people who could only attend class at night and had a strong desire to make something of themselves. What was then called Temple College continued to grow throughout the following decades, adding programs and students to become what we now know as Temple University. We are so proud to continue to meet Russell Conwell’s vision by providing a great education at an affordable price to people from all over the world, from different backgrounds and experiences. During our time together, you’ll learn a little bit about Temple University, academic opportunities, social life, of course how to apply and how to finance a Temple degree. Academic Programs Temple is a big school with a variety of programs of study. You may know exactly what you want to major in or maybe you have no idea, and that’s perfectly fine. One of our most popular majors for incoming students is our University Studies Program, where students can come to Temple without declaring a major and have up to two years to officially choose a major. This is a great option, if you’re not set on a major. You can explore different areas of study and get a feel for your interests. Not to mention, you will have an extra staff support to help you figure out your future course of study. And that’s just one of the benefits of going to a large school like Temple. There’s a lot of academic flexibility to find exactly what's right for you. We have a large student body, which I know may seem intimidating at first, but trust me, we have a small school feel here. Our average student-to-faculty ratio is unique compared to other schools our size. Our smaller class sizes allow students to make one-on-one connections with their professors, advisors and their peers. We work really hard to offer students a personalized experience. So you’ll get one-on-one time with professors and mentorships to help guide you through your time here. We also want to make sure our students are learning inside the classroom and outside of it. The city of Philadelphia has so much rich history and culture that we want our students to experience and explore. Our General Education Program, which all students participate in, allows students to explore courses outside of their major. This means you’ll be taking classes in the arts, sciences, math and maybe even a history class or two. Your assignments in these courses can take you all over the city, whether it be to the Philadelphia Museum of Art or to see a theater performance downtown. Maybe you’ll stop by the Franklin Institute where you can check out interactive science exhibits or learn more about the nation’s history at one of the city's many historical landmarks. So in addition to your work inside the classroom, you’ll learn how to use the city’s public transportation system, which will help you to get around and experience all of Philadelphia’s art, culture, food and history. As one of the largest cities in the U.S., Philadelphia has a lot to explore. We want to make sure that in your time here you can experience all the city has to offer. Research Opportunities At Temple, research is a large part of our identity. We are an R1 research institution, which is the highest level of research activity designated by the Carnegie classification system. This means we recruit world-class researchers, not only to use our facilities for their work, but also to teach. You’ll learn firsthand from the discoveries that our researchers and professors make all while having the opportunity to be inside their laboratories. Of course, you can apply your experience to your future career. Temple scientists are conducting groundbreaking research that can help change people’s lives all over the world. Our researchers recently identified the first genome to transmit the novel coronavirus, which can help epidemiologists better understand the virus, how the virus was first transmitted to humans, and how it has mutated over time. Temple scientists are also working to advance HIV research and have discovered important breakthroughs that could bring us closer to a cure. Our students are driven, dedicated, and passionate individuals who win awards, become Rhodes and Goldwater scholars, compete for prestigious fellowships and more. The university has had a banner few years in terms of undergraduate research and professional student development. You may have heard of Marcus Forst, Temple’s first Goldwater scholar, which is the most prestigious STEM award an undergraduate student can receive. Marcus, who is now a doctorate student at Stanford University, is just one example of student success here at Temple. We also like to tell students that research doesn’t have to be the kind that’s inside a laboratory with test tubes and white coats. You can do research in any one of our academic programs. For example, we’ve had students major in art history and go on to become a diamond research scholar or a major in music, and then study abroad in Rome and conduct research on Italian composition. The faculty and staff at Temple always encourage students to dream big and explore what they love. International Campuses and Study Abroad Opportunities Did you know that Temple is Philadelphia’s only public university? It’s true. It’s a major part of our identity but we’re really a global university. We have a suburban campus in Ambler, Pennsylvania and international locations in Rome, Italy and Tokyo, Japan. No matter which campus you're on, whether here or abroad, you’ll see the same cherry and white flags as on our main campus in Philadelphia. This means all of your classes are Temple classes, all of your faculty members are Temple faculty and your tuition stays the same as do your scholarships and financial aid. But don’t worry, if you're not interested in studying in Rome or Tokyo, we have dozens of other opportunities all over the world for you to explore. If students aren’t as interested in traveling abroad we also have domestic programs where students can study in Washington, D.C., which is a great opportunity for those interested in politics and policy. Or film students can study away in Los Angeles where they can earn firsthand experience working in movie studios along Temple University faculty. No matter where a student is interested in learning, attending Temple means you'll have the opportunity to explore beyond Main Campus and see different places across the country and across the world. Internships, Jobs and Alumni Network Here at Temple, we are committed to the success of our students while they’re here and after graduation. We’ll help you navigate your future in a variety of ways, whether it be by workshopping your resume or helping you apply to one of the thousands of jobs and internships posted on our internal job board. We really try to ensure students have the opportunity and research to identify and apply for positions that most interest them. We are also proud to say that we have a large alumni network that spans across the City of Philadelphia, the U.S., and the globe. This means that when you apply to an internship, go to a job interview, or attend a networking event, there’s a high chance someone there has a Temple University degree. How to Apply: For First-year Students Courtney Applying to college can feel very overwhelming, but don’t worry. Our Admissions team is here to help. We have a detailed step-by-step video explaining everything you need to know about how to apply on our website. But let’s go over the basics here. We have two application deadlines. The first is our early action deadline, which is November 1st. This option is best for students who know they want to apply to Temple and are ready to do so early. Applying early action means you’ll receive an admissions decision earlier. So if you apply by November 1st, you’ll have your decision no later than January 10th. Our second option is our regular decision deadline, which is February 1st. We will get you an admissions decision between four and eight weeks after you complete and submit your application. Now it’s time for Hallie to cover two very important steps, deciding on standardized test scores and submitting your application. Hallie Temple is a test optional school, and we have been for years. This means that if you feel your test scores are not a strong reflection of your academic ability, or you were just unable to take a standardized test, you can apply test-optional. You are not penalized in any way if you decide not to submit test scores. You are reviewed exactly the same way for admission, exactly the same way for our Honors Program and exactly the same way for merit based scholarship. So now that you’ve heard all about our application deadlines and what to do about test scores, you're probably thinking, “So what's the secret formula? How do I apply and get into Temple University?” There are no secrets, really. We want this process to be as simple as possible. For this reason, we exclusively use the Common Application. Once you create a Common App account, you will fill in all of your information for Temple, including a personal statement and telling us as much as you can about all the extracurricular activities you’re involved in. Once your application is submitted, you’ll get an email with instructions on how to access your TUportal account. TUportal is our primary way of communicating with you throughout this process so be sure to set up your login information. After you’ve logged into your account, you can move to your next steps in the admissions process, submitting your self-reported high school transcript. Our self-report tool will allow you to input all of your classes in high school and the grades you received yourself, which means your high school does not need to send an official copy of your high school transcript during the application process. This is a required step for our admissions process, so the sooner it is completed, the sooner we can review your application, review you for a merit scholarship, and review you for our Honors Program. You can also choose to submit letters of recommendation. This is completely optional, but you can submit up to two. If you choose to submit letters, they should be written by individuals who can speak to your academic abilities and personal accomplishments, such as a high school advisor or a teacher. Now that your application is ready to submit, let's go back to Courtney to cover the final steps. Courtney Once you have completed your application and self-reported your high school transcript, our Admissions team will start our review. While we are going to take a look at your GPA and overall academic performance, we will also look at your entire story your transcript tells. This means that we’ll be looking at areas of consistency, as well as areas of growth across your academic coursework. We’ll also take a look at your personal statement and extracurricular activities to help paint a full picture of who you are, both inside and outside of the classroom. How to Apply: For Transfer Students Are you interested in transferring to Temple? Here at Temple, transfer students are considered anyone who has completed high school and then taken a minimum of 12 to 15 college-level credits. When you’re applying for transfer admission, you’re going to need to send us every college transcript that you have. So whether you’ve attended one institution or multiple, you’ll need to send us all of those transcripts, even if the institution is located outside of the United States. If you’ve taken less than 30 college-level credits, then we will also want to see your final high school transcript. Now, let’s cover application deadlines. If you’re thinking about starting in the fall semester, you will need to apply no later than June 1st. For those students interested in applying for the spring semester, that application deadline is November 1st. Once you’ve submitted your application by the deadline, and you've sent us all of your transcripts, we can start to review your application for admission. The transfer process moves pretty quickly. So you should receive a decision from us within two to three weeks from the time your application is completed. For transfer student admission, we are looking at your college body of work. Our average GPA for admission is usually above a 3.0. However, we start to consider transfer students with at least a 2.5 GPA. It’s also really important to know that your most recent college work matters the most. Soon after you are officially admitted to Temple, you will receive a transfer credit evaluation. This is when we will evaluate all of your courses from your previous institutions to see which credits will transfer to Temple. The typical rules are the credit has to come from a regionally-accredited institution, has to be a grade of C or better and has to be a college-level course, so no remedial level courses. Finally, the course has to be something we offer here at Temple. For example, we don’t offer culinary courses, so we would not be able to take culinary course credits. But if you took English composition, that will transfer to Temple. To get the best sense of what credits will transfer, you can use our transfer equivalency tool, a database that we use to showcase what has transferred to Temple in the past. This tool can be found on our website, at admissions.temple.edu. Once you’re on the site, head to the apply section and then navigate to transfer students. That’s where you’ll find the link. Don’t worry if you don’t see your school listed. We will still evaluate your credits for admission. Once you become a Temple student, regardless if you transferred, you become part of the entire Temple University community, with access to the same resources for all Temple students. For specific transfer questions, we have a team dedicated to help you through this process. How to Apply: For International Students Are you an international student? Visit our website to learn more about the application process specifically for international students. There you can find details about applying to Temple and what deadlines to keep in mind as you plan your application. If you have any questions at all, we encourage you to reach out to our admissions team at askanowl@temple.edu or call us at 215-204-7200. You can also schedule a virtual appointment with one of our admissions counselors. Be sure to follow us on our social media @admissionsTU. Cost, Aid and Scholarships Hallie Now that you’ve applied, you’re probably thinking, “how much does it cost to go to Temple?” Here we have something called differential tuition, which means each of those different schools and colleges we mentioned earlier have different tuition rates. These rates will also depend on whether you’re an in-state or out-of-state student, as well as if you decide to live on campus and your meal plan. To help students cover the cost of tuition and stay within Temple’s commitment to affordability, you’re automatically reviewed for our merit-based scholarships. These scholarships start at $1,000 and go up to cover a full cost of tuition. The information you submit as part of your application will help us determine what type of scholarships Temple can offer you. We know financing your education is an important step in the college experience and scholarships are just one component. Courtney is now going to tell you more about financial aid and how Temple is dedicated to helping you graduate on time to save money in the long-run. Courtney As Hallie mentioned, Temple does offer students financial aid. You can start this process by filling out a free application for Federal Student Aid or FAFSA application. This application opens up every year on October 1st, and the information you submit there will then be sent to Temple’s Student Financial Services office for review. Temple will then compile a package of loans and grants that you are eligible for, which will complement any merit-based scholarship you receive. It’s important to keep in mind that our priority filing deadline for FAFSA is February 1st. So try to fill out your application as early as possible. Finally, we want to make sure you're graduating in four years and doing so with as little debt as possible. That’s why we created the Fly in Four program, which is an agreement between Temple University and our students, so you have a clear path to graduate in four years. As part of the voluntary agreement, students agree to meet with their advisor every semester, stay in good academic standing and register for courses on time. In return, we promise to give you the resources that you need to graduate in four years. And if for some reason you don’t, we’re going to pay for any additional costs into your fifth year. Since starting the program in 2014, we have seen a consistent increase in our graduation rate, which speaks to our commitment to providing students with the resources they need to succeed in their time here at Temple. Through our scholarships and financial aid and our Fly in Four program, you can see Temple's true commitment to affordability and accessibility. Return to top 1. Welcome to Temple University Hear fast facts about who we are, what we’re all about and our proud history. Quick Look Philadelphia’s public university, founded in 1884 26,000+ undergraduate students Top 50 public schools among national universities (U.S. News & World Report) Video Transcript Introduction Hallie Lupinski Hello and welcome to Temple University. My name is Hallie, and I'm here to tell you all about Temple and what it can offer you. I work in the admissions team and I'm also a proud Temple grad. I'll be joined by my colleague, Courtney, who you’ll hear from shortly. But before we get into more detail, let’s start with some basics. Temple University is a large public research institution located in the heart of Philadelphia. Here at Temple, we have a diverse and vibrant student body and offer our students many undergraduate programs of study to choose from. We house those programs within 17 schools and colleges, which includes five professional schools. What do I mean when I say schools and colleges? It’s how we organize our academic programs here. For example, the College of Science and Technology houses, you guessed it, science and technology programs. Interdisciplinary work is a big part of your academic experience here at Temple. So expect to learn across several schools and colleges during your time here. Students can also choose from a wide variety of cultural, athletic and social activities. Whether it’s joining a club on campus or going to Lincoln Financial Field to watch the Temple football team, there’s truly something for everyone at Temple. And we offer countless opportunities for students to get connected and get involved. Temple’s presence is strong in Philadelphia, and we have a huge alumni network right here in our region. Temple graduates live and work all around the world. Courtney Bradshaw Hi, I’m Courtney. I’m also on the admissions team and a proud Temple grad. Before we get into some of the details of what Temple can offer you, let's talk about our history. Despite its size and reach today, Temple has humble roots as a university. The school was founded in North Philadelphia in 1884 by Dr. Russell Conwell, a well-known minister in the city. One day after services, a young working man came up to him and said, “Dr. Conwell, I want a higher education, but I don't have the time or the resources to go to school full time. What can I do?” Dr. Conwell quickly offered to tutor the man and it wasn’t long before he was teaching several dozen students, all working people who could only attend class at night and had a strong desire to make something of themselves. What was then called Temple College continued to grow throughout the following decades, adding programs and students to become what we now know as Temple University. We are so proud to continue to meet Russell Conwell’s vision by providing a great education at an affordable price to people from all over the world, from different backgrounds and experiences. During our time together, you’ll learn a little bit about Temple University, academic opportunities, social life, of course how to apply and how to finance a Temple degree. Return to top 2. Academic Programs Learn about the broad range of programs we offer, including accelerated programs that create a clear path to graduate and professional degrees. This section also explores the experiential learning that’s at the core of a Temple education and the professional opportunities unique to Philadelphia. Learn more about our academic programs, and search for your major. Quick Look 150+ undergraduate majors 17 schools and colleges, including five professional schools 13–1 student-faculty ratio Video Transcript Academic Programs Temple is a big school with a variety of programs of study. You may know exactly what you want to major in or maybe you have no idea, and that’s perfectly fine. One of our most popular majors for incoming students is our University Studies Program, where students can come to Temple without declaring a major and have up to two years to officially choose a major. This is a great option, if you’re not set on a major. You can explore different areas of study and get a feel for your interests. Not to mention, you will have an extra staff support to help you figure out your future course of study. And that’s just one of the benefits of going to a large school like Temple. There’s a lot of academic flexibility to find exactly what's right for you. We have a large student body, which I know may seem intimidating at first, but trust me, we have a small school feel here. Our average student-to-faculty ratio is unique compared to other schools our size. Our smaller class sizes allow students to make one-on-one connections with their professors, advisors and their peers. We work really hard to offer students a personalized experience. So you’ll get one-on-one time with professors and mentorships to help guide you through your time here. We also want to make sure our students are learning inside the classroom and outside of it. The city of Philadelphia has so much rich history and culture that we want our students to experience and explore. Our General Education Program, which all students participate in, allows students to explore courses outside of their major. This means you’ll be taking classes in the arts, sciences, math and maybe even a history class or two. Your assignments in these courses can take you all over the city, whether it be to the Philadelphia Museum of Art or to see a theater performance downtown. Maybe you’ll stop by the Franklin Institute where you can check out interactive science exhibits or learn more about the nation’s history at one of the city's many historical landmarks. So in addition to your work inside the classroom, you’ll learn how to use the city’s public transportation system, which will help you to get around and experience all of Philadelphia’s art, culture, food and history. As one of the largest cities in the U.S., Philadelphia has a lot to explore. We want to make sure that in your time here you can experience all the city has to offer. Return to top 3. Research Opportunities Research takes many forms at Temple, and undergraduates have several entry points to conduct research alongside faculty or take on their own projects. Temple is classified by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher education as R1, which means the university has “very high research activity.” Learn more about undergraduate research at Temple. Video Transcript Research Opportunities At Temple, research is a large part of our identity. We are an R1 research institution, which is the highest level of research activity designated by the Carnegie classification system. This means we recruit world-class researchers, not only to use our facilities for their work, but also to teach. You’ll learn firsthand from the discoveries that our researchers and professors make all while having the opportunity to be inside their laboratories. Of course, you can apply your experience to your future career. Temple scientists are conducting groundbreaking research that can help change people’s lives all over the world. Our researchers recently identified the first genome to transmit the novel coronavirus, which can help epidemiologists better understand the virus, how the virus was first transmitted to humans, and how it has mutated over time. Temple scientists are also working to advance HIV research and have discovered important breakthroughs that could bring us closer to a cure. Our students are driven, dedicated, and passionate individuals who win awards, become Rhodes and Goldwater scholars, compete for prestigious fellowships and more. The university has had a banner few years in terms of undergraduate research and professional student development. You may have heard of Marcus Forst, Temple’s first Goldwater scholar, which is the most prestigious STEM award an undergraduate student can receive. Marcus, who is now a doctorate student at Stanford University, is just one example of student success here at Temple. We also like to tell students that research doesn’t have to be the kind that’s inside a laboratory with test tubes and white coats. You can do research in any one of our academic programs. For example, we’ve had students major in art history and go on to become a diamond research scholar or a major in music, and then study abroad in Rome and conduct research on Italian composition. The faculty and staff at Temple always encourage students to dream big and explore what they love. Return to top 4. International Campuses and Study Abroad Temple has seven campuses worldwide, including campuses in Rome, Italy and Tokyo, Japan, as well as many programs in countries across the globe. Many study abroad programs offer an internship component, making our students more competitive in the professional world. Explore Temple’s international campuses and study abroad programs. Video Transcript International Campuses and Study Abroad Did you know that Temple is Philadelphia’s only public university? It’s true. It’s a major part of our identity but we’re really a global university. We have a suburban campus in Ambler, Pennsylvania and international locations in Rome, Italy and Tokyo, Japan. No matter which campus you're on, whether here or abroad, you’ll see the same cherry and white flags as on our main campus in Philadelphia. This means all of your classes are Temple classes, all of your faculty members are Temple faculty and your tuition stays the same as do your scholarships and financial aid. But don’t worry, if you're not interested in studying in Rome or Tokyo, we have dozens of other opportunities all over the world for you to explore. If students aren’t as interested in traveling abroad we also have domestic programs where students can study in Washington, D.C., which is a great opportunity for those interested in politics and policy. Or film students can study away in Los Angeles where they can earn firsthand experience working in movie studios along Temple University faculty. No matter where a student is interested in learning, attending Temple means you'll have the opportunity to explore beyond Main Campus and see different places across the country and across the world. Return to top 5. Internships, Jobs and Alumni Network Our location in Philadelphia allows students to take on internships year-round, and provides access to every industry so students can explore their interests and build professional experience easily. And, our global alumni network is always a resource for connections and guidance. Explore career services at Temple. Quick Look 800+ employers come to campus each year 149,000+ alumni in Philadelphia 358,000 alumni worldwide Video Transcript Internships, Jobs and Alumni Network Here at Temple, we are committed to the success of our students while they’re here and after graduation. We’ll help you navigate your future in a variety of ways, whether it be by workshopping your resume or helping you apply to one of the thousands of jobs and internships posted on our internal job board. We really try to ensure students have the opportunity and research to identify and apply for positions that most interest them. We are also proud to say that we have a large alumni network that spans across the City of Philadelphia, the U.S., and the globe. This means that when you apply to an internship, go to a job interview, or attend a networking event, there’s a high chance someone there has a Temple University degree. Return to top 6. Application Process For First-year Students Find out exactly what you need to know about applying to Temple University, including what we are looking for in a first-year applicant. Dates to remember Aug. 1: Application opens Nov. 1: Early Action deadline Feb. 1: Regular Decision deadline May 1: Decision deadline Video Transcript How to Apply Courtney Applying to college can feel very overwhelming, but don’t worry. Our Admissions team is here to help. We have a detailed step-by-step video explaining everything you need to know about how to apply on our website. But let’s go over the basics here. We have two application deadlines. The first is our early action deadline, which is November 1st. This option is best for students who know they want to apply to Temple and are ready to do so early. Applying early action means you’ll receive an admissions decision earlier. So if you apply by November 1st, you’ll have your decision no later than January 10th. Our second option is our regular decision deadline, which is February 1st. We will get you an admissions decision between four and eight weeks after you complete and submit your application. Now it’s time for Hallie to cover two very important steps, deciding on standardized test scores and submitting your application. Hallie Temple is a test optional school, and we have been for years. This means that if you feel your test scores are not a strong reflection of your academic ability, or you were just unable to take a standardized test, you can apply test-optional. You are not penalized in any way if you decide not to submit test scores. You are reviewed exactly the same way for admission, exactly the same way for our Honors Program and exactly the same way for merit based scholarship. So now that you’ve heard all about our application deadlines and what to do about test scores, you're probably thinking, “So what's the secret formula? How do I apply and get into Temple University?” There are no secrets, really. We want this process to be as simple as possible. For this reason, we exclusively use the Common Application. Once you create a Common App account, you will fill in all of your information for Temple, including a personal statement and telling us as much as you can about all the extracurricular activities you’re involved in. Once your application is submitted, you’ll get an email with instructions on how to access your TUportal account. TUportal is our primary way of communicating with you throughout this process so be sure to set up your login information. After you’ve logged into your account, you can move to your next steps in the admissions process, submitting your self-reported high school transcript. Our self-report tool will allow you to input all of your classes in high school and the grades you received yourself, which means your high school does not need to send an official copy of your high school transcript during the application process. This is a required step for our admissions process, so the sooner it is completed, the sooner we can review your application, review you for a merit scholarship, and review you for our Honors Program. You can also choose to submit letters of recommendation. This is completely optional, but you can submit up to two. If you choose to submit letters, they should be written by individuals who can speak to your academic abilities and personal accomplishments, such as a high school advisor or a teacher. Now that your application is ready to submit, let's go back to Courtney to cover the final steps. Courtney Once you have completed your application and self-reported your high school transcript, our Admissions team will start our review. While we are going to take a look at your GPA and overall academic performance, we will also look at your entire story your transcript tells. This means that we’ll be looking at areas of consistency, as well as areas of growth across your academic coursework. We’ll also take a look at your personal statement and extracurricular activities to help paint a full picture of who you are, both inside and outside of the classroom. For Transfer Students Find out exactly what you need to know about applying to Temple University, including what we are looking for in a transfer applicant. Temple University is currently only accepting official transcripts through an electronic transcript service. Please do not send paper transcripts through the mail at this time. Dates to remember Nov. 1: Application deadline for spring semester start June 1: Application deadline for fall semester start Feb. 1: Application deadline for Nursing and Health Information Management (fall semester only) Video Transcript How to Apply Are you interested in transferring to Temple? Here at Temple, transfer students are considered anyone who has completed high school and then taken a minimum of 12 to 15 college-level credits. When you’re applying for transfer admission, you’re going to need to send us every college transcript that you have. So whether you’ve attended one institution or multiple, you’ll need to send us all of those transcripts, even if the institution is located outside of the United States. If you’ve taken less than 30 college-level credits, then we will also want to see your final high school transcript. Now, let’s cover application deadlines. If you’re thinking about starting in the fall semester, you will need to apply no later than June 1st. For those students interested in applying for the spring semester, that application deadline is November 1st. Once you’ve submitted your application by the deadline, and you've sent us all of your transcripts, we can start to review your application for admission. The transfer process moves pretty quickly. So you should receive a decision from us within two to three weeks from the time your application is completed. For transfer student admission, we are looking at your college body of work. Our average GPA for admission is usually above a 3.0. However, we start to consider transfer students with at least a 2.5 GPA. It’s also really important to know that your most recent college work matters the most. Soon after you are officially admitted to Temple, you will receive a transfer credit evaluation. This is when we will evaluate all of your courses from your previous institutions to see which credits will transfer to Temple. The typical rules are the credit has to come from a regionally accredited institution, has to be a grade of C or better and has to be a college-level course, so no remedial level courses. Finally, the course has to be something we offer here at Temple. For example, we don’t offer culinary courses, so we would not be able to take culinary course credits. But if you took English composition, that will transfer to Temple. To get the best sense of what credits will transfer, you can use our transfer equivalency tool, a database that we use to showcase what has transferred to Temple in the past. This tool can be found on our website, at admissions.temple.edu. Once you’re on the site, head to the apply section and then navigate to transfer students. That’s where you’ll find the link. Don’t worry if you don’t see your school listed. We will still evaluate your credits for admission. Once you become a Temple student, regardless if you transferred, you become part of the entire Temple University community, with access to the same resources for all Temple students. For specific transfer questions, we have a team dedicated to help you through this process. For International Students Find out exactly what you need to know about applying to Temple University, including what we are looking for in an international applicant. DATES TO REMEMBER Nov. 1: Early Action deadline (first-year students only) Feb. 1: Regular Decision deadline (first-year students only) Video Transcript How to Apply Are you an international student? Visit our website to learn more about the application process specifically for international students. There you can find details about applying to Temple and what deadlines to keep in mind as you plan your application. If you have any questions at all, we encourage you to reach out to our admissions team at askanowl@temple.edu or call us at 215-204-7200. You can also schedule a virtual appointment with one of our admissions counselors. Be sure to follow us on our social media @admissionsTU. Return to top 7. Cost, Aid and Scholarships Learn about tuition costs, how to apply for aid and scholarship considerations, as well as Temple’s Fly in 4 program, which helps students stay on track academically to ensure they graduate in four years and avoid possible extra student loan debt. Explore your cost and aid options. Quick Look Top 75 best value schools among national universities (U.S. World News & Report) $100 million+ in scholarships awarded last year 70% of first-year undergraduate students receive need-based financial aid Video Transcript Costs, Financial Aid and Scholarships Hallie Now that you’ve applied, you’re probably thinking, “how much does it cost to go to Temple?” Here we have something called differential tuition, which means each of those different schools and colleges we mentioned earlier have different tuition rates. These rates will also depend on whether you’re an in-state or out-of-state student, as well as if you decide to live on campus and your meal plan. To help students cover the cost of tuition and stay within Temple’s commitment to affordability, you’re automatically reviewed for our merit-based scholarships. These scholarships start at $1,000 and go up to cover a full cost of tuition. The information you submit as part of your application will help us determine what type of scholarships Temple can offer you. We know financing your education is an important step in the college experience and scholarships are just one component. Courtney is now going to tell you more about financial aid and how Temple is dedicated to helping you graduate on time to save money in the long-run. Courtney As Hallie mentioned, Temple does offer students financial aid. You can start this process by filling out a free application for Federal Student Aid or FAFSA application. This application opens up every year on October 1st, and the information you submit there will then be sent to Temple’s Student Financial Services office for review. Temple will then compile a package of loans and grants that you are eligible for, which will complement any merit-based scholarship you receive. It’s important to keep in mind that our priority filing deadline for FAFSA is February 1st. So try to fill out your application as early as possible. Finally, we want to make sure you're graduating in four years and doing so with as little debt as possible. That’s why we created the Fly in Four program, which is an agreement between Temple University and our students, so you have a clear path to graduate in four years. As part of the voluntary agreement, students agree to meet with their advisor every semester, stay in good academic standing and register for courses on time. In return, we promise to give you the resources that you need to graduate in four years. And if for some reason you don’t, we’re going to pay for any additional costs into your fifth year. Since starting the program in 2014, we have seen a consistent increase in our graduation rate, which speaks to our commitment to providing students with the resources they need to succeed in their time here at Temple. Through our scholarships and financial aid and our Fly in Four program, you can see Temple's true commitment to affordability and accessibility. Return to top 8. Student Experience Who better to capture what it’s like to be a Temple student than our students themselves? Watch our student vloggers to get an idea of what their experiences are like, from a day on campus to studying away in Los Angeles. Quick Look 18 varsity sports teams 330+ student organizations and clubs 1,900 international students https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-in9MVMJ1zY https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LY2Qo0mpj0g https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PNZhzZ5QQXc https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3ldGq_66Kxc Return to top /visit/tours/virtual-main-campus-tour Main Campus Tour Want to see more of where you will live and learn? Take a virtual tour to explore Main Campus and see inside our residence halls. Explore Main Campus and see inside our residence halls with a virtual tour. https://apply.temple.edu/UGADMISSIONS/Pages/virtualprospectinquiry.aspx?f=f8a353… Request Information Submit your contact information so we can keep you informed about important admissions deadlines, events and more. https://apply.temple.edu/UGADMISSIONS/Pages/virtualprospectinquiry.aspx?f=f8a353… Submit your contact information so we can keep you informed about important admissions deadlines, events and more. Explore schools and colleges Schools and Colleges Explore our schools and colleges through information sessions, tours and one-on-one meetings. Explore schools and colleges Explore our schools and colleges through information sessions, tours, and one-on one meetings. Visit Ambler Ambler Campus Learn more about our Ambler Campus tours and events. Visit Ambler Ambler Campus Return to top Back to Information Sessions Back to Visit Go back to VisitMore in Recorded Information Session Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Apply Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info