Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Tuition & Costs Tuition & Costs The University of Texas at Austin is annually recognized as one of the best values in higher education by national publications that evaluate academic quality and cost. Forbes named us one of its 2017 Best Value Colleges. So did Kiplinger. The Princeton Review included us on its 2017 list of Colleges That Pay You Back, which examines return on investment, affordability and career prospects. Emerging and Times Higher Education named us to their list of schools producing the world’s most employable grads (2016). Tuition Flat-rate tuition—which includes all academic program costs—is assessed each semester by college or program, resident status and hours enrolled, with summer tuition discounted 15 percent from the fall/spring rate. Calculate tuition rates and learn about payment and exemption options on the university’s tuition site. Current Tuition Rates Undergraduate Traditional Tuition Undergraduate Longhorn Fixed Tuition Graduate Tuition Professional School Tuition, excluding law and medical schools Law School Tuition Dell Medical School Tuition Students may also elect to participate in the Longhorn Fixed Tuition program. Cost of Attendance Cost of attendance, a term defined by Congress, is the average cost to attend a college or university for one academic year—the fall and spring semesters. It includes tuition and an estimate of average costs for books and supplies, room and board, transportation and personal expenses. Quick Links Longhorn Fixed Tuition Cost of Attendance Tuition at UT Austin Texas Residency admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022