Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Admissions Search Menu Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour Search Admissions Why Brown? Sub Navigation In This Section By The Numbers Providence Virtual Tour Overlooking the Providence River, the Brown University School of Public Health links Downtown Providence and College Hill. Start the tour Why Brown? A snapshot of what makes Brown’s graduate programs different. Our students bring their passion, discipline, intelligence, and compassion to bear on the most pressing public health challenges we face. We equip them with the skills they need to translate that passion into meaningful work that impacts population health. Is Brown the right fit for you? From evidence-based teaching and learning support, to gender affirming health insurance, to inclusive campus centers, our student-centered graduate programs will empower you to chart your own course. Not Just Theory ... Impact At the Brown University School of Public Health, faculty aren’t solely academics. They are public health practitioners—health insurance commissioners, department of health directors, analysis directors. They bring experience from the field into the classroom. Their real-life stories make the lessons come alive. Perfect “Collaboratory” at Your Fingertips Brown is all about working together—often across boundaries. Faculty and students move freely among the School’s research centers and departments-and across and beyond the University, too. Rhode Island isn’t just a great place to live. The state has a population of 1,000,000 people and comprises 1,000 square miles. Innovative Research The School of Public Health’s nationally-renowned research centers and institutes focus training and research on key areas including addiction, HIV/AIDS, global health, environmental health, aging, maternal and child health, and health data science. Our Small Size is No Accident We are committed to a low student-to-faculty ratio. It’s how we guarantee our students personal attention from faculty invested in their success. Not only are faculty in the School experts in their fields, they are also teachers and mentors, dedicated to the growth of future public health professionals. Diverse Career Outcomes A Brown education will prepare you to flourish as an independent thinker, an innovative collaborator, and an active global citizen. Our graduates work in academic institutions, consulting, government, healthcare, and nonprofit organizations. Brown Ranks Among World’s Top Universities The University is ranked No. 14 in U.S. News and World Report's 2022 Best National University Rankings and No. 3 on its list of best universities for U.S. military veterans. Brown consistently earns high marks in a range of higher education rankings focused on academic experience, undergraduate research, return on investment and more. Providence Known as “The Creative Capital,” Providence is the biggest city in the smallest state. Visit Page Virtual Tour Overlooking the Providence River, the Brown University School of Public Health links Downtown Providence and College Hill. Start the tour Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Why Brown? Open details for Why Brown? Bookmark this Page