Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Undergraduate Admissions Why ND Visit & Engage Aid & Affordability Apply Contact Home Contact Search Menu Educating the Mind, Body, and Spirit We empower brilliant, energetic thinkers who are motivated to change the world. Why Notre Dame Educating the Mind, Body, and Spirit We empower brilliant, energetic thinkers who are motivated to change the world. Why Notre Dame Class of 2026 Admitted Students Q&A: Four Students on Majoring in Romance Languages and Literatures How Sociology, Spanish, and the Liberal Arts Prepared Mikaela Ramsey for a Career in Education Aid & Affordability Funding Your Future Notre Dame is committed to making a world-class education affordable. We’ll walk you through the financial aid process and help you understand the funding options available to you. Aid & Affordability Student Blogs Real Perspective Want to know what it’s really like to be a Notre Dame student? Get the real deal from current students on everything from choosing a major to study abroad. Our student writers are experts on the Notre Dame experience so you can get a feel for campus life straight from the source. Choosing the Right School Savannah Carr ’24 Get Involved: ND Listens Lulu Romero ’24 Happy Easter! Hailey Oppenlander ’22 More Student Blogs Common Tasks Apply Request Information Schedule a Visit Meet Your Counselors Review Class Profile Check Application Status International Applicants Transfer Applicants Tuition & Aid Explore Academics Dates & Deadlines June 25 - July 9, 2022 Pre-College Summer Scholars July 16 - 27, 2022 Pre-College Leadership Seminars August 1, 2022 Application Opens August 19, 2022 Move-in and Welcome Week August 23, 2022 First Week of Classes Why Notre Dame Take the next step on a journey of passion and purpose. Notre Dame is where creative intellectuals pursue knowledge in service of the greater good. Why Notre Dame Academics & Research Academic inquiry and self-discovery go hand-in-hand. Student Life Discover yourself, your passions, and your community. Global Perspective Notre Dame shapes thinkers ready to engage a shrinking world. Spiritual Identity Faith serves as the foundation of our academic and spiritual lives. Bright Futures You have big dreams and Notre Dame is dedicated to helping you pursue them. Get Connected Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat YouTube Tiktok Spotify Home Why ND Visit & Engage Aid & Affordability Apply Contact Enrollment Division Undergraduate Admissions McKenna Hall University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone 574-631-7505 Fax 574-631-8865 admissions@nd.edu Non-Discrimination Policy Annual Clery & Fire Safety Reports Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat YouTube Tiktok Spotify © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn