Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Special Programs Frequently asked questions about special programs Breadcrumb Home Frequently Asked Questions What is the Brown|RISD Dual Degree Program? Brown University and the Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) offer a five-year Dual Degree Program for students who wish to combine study in the liberal arts with concentrated work in the fine arts. Dual Degree candidates would complete approximately half of their course work at each institution and graduate with the A.B. or Sc.B degree from Brown and the B.F.A. degree from RISD. To be considered for this program, you must apply to Brown and to RISD independently and submit the Brown|RISD Dual Degree Program supplement to each institution. Only students who have been admitted to both Brown and RISD will be considered for the Dual Degree Program. Not all combinations of majors at RISD and concentrations at Brown may be possible because of the rigorous demands of the Dual Degree Program. Brown’s Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME) and RISD's Architecture major are not permitted within the Dual Degree Program. Can I apply early decision to Brown|RISD? Applications for the Dual Degree Program will only be considered during the Regular Decision process. You may apply to Brown Early Decision; however, if you are admitted you must subsequently submit a Regular Decision application to RISD and your application for Brown|RISD will not be considered until the spring. Given that Early Decision to Brown is a binding commitment, you are obligated to attend Brown even if you are not admitted to the Brown|RISD Dual Degree Program. May I be a varsity athlete while I am in the Brown|RISD Program? All athletic opportunities are available to Dual Degree students. Students may participate in intercollegiate varsity athletics at Brown while they are enrolled in the Dual Degree Program. Eligibility is governed by NCAA and Ivy League rules. In cases of conflict with academic scheduling, such as for example RISD Winter session, the academic program will take precedence over joining in the sport. Students interested in participating in intercollegiate varsity athletics should contact the Associate Director for Student Services in Brown’s Department of Athletics and Physical Education for further information. What is the Program in Liberal Medical Education? Brown’s Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME) combines undergraduate education and professional studies in medicine in a single eight-year program. The PLME is the only combined baccalaureate-MD program in the Ivy League, and one of the routes of admission to the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Can PLME candidates apply Early Decision? An early decision applicant who indicates a desire to be considered for entry into the PLME may be admitted in December to both the College and the PLME. However, some students may be selected for admission to the College but not the PLME. The Office of College Admission realizes that these students may not wish to be admitted to the College under a binding early decision program if they are not also admitted to the PLME. Hence, the office asks these PLME applicants to apply regular decision. Those who apply and are admitted to Brown but not to PLME will be considered for the PLME program during the regular decision review and the outcomes will be either admission to the program or still only admission to Brown the College. Can I study abroad as a PLME student? Students in the PLME program may study abroad, so long as they can still fulfill the requirements of the program. Can I be pre-med if I am not in the PLME program? Yes, you can be “pre-med” even if you are not enrolled in PLME. Most Brown graduates who go on to successful careers in medicine were never enrolled in the PLME program. We offer extensive advising to students who are interested in continuing on to medical school after they graduate from Brown. In fact, students who graduate from Brown are admitted to medical school at a rate that is almost twice the national average. What is the RUE program? The Resumed Undergraduate Education (“RUE”) Program is designed for undergraduate applicants who have been out of high school for six years or more, and who have no more than two years of prior college experience. It is a full-time program which leads to a Brown University undergraduate degree. For students applying to Brown through RUE, applications are due on March 1 for the following academic year. For more information please visit the section for RUE Applicants. What are you looking for in a RUE application? Admission to RUE is highly competitive with typically over 100 applicants each year for about 10 spaces in the class. The RUE admission process takes into consideration both applicants' academic records as well as their non-academic accomplishments and life experience. Military veterans, working parents, small business owners, activists, artists, entertainers and professional athletes are among those who have furthered their education and careers via RUE. Uneven or sub-par academic performance in high school or in a previous college experience is not an automatic disqualifier; however, successful applicants demonstrate convincing evidence that they are now prepared for the academic rigor at Brown. The RUE application, including the financial aid application, is separate from the Common Application, and is available in the section for RUE applicants. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Special Programs Open details for Special Programs Bookmark this Page