Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Tour Visit Apply × Close Menu Affordability at TU Apply Apply First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Graduate Applicants Law Applicants Other Students Credit By Exam Financial Aid Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Free Application for Federal Student Aid Visit Campus Visit Campus Academic Webinars Plan Your Individual Visit Preview TU Group Visits University Ambassadors Area Hotels Directions to Campus Maps Explore Tulsa Virtual Tour Special Programs Special Programs Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars Student Life Student Life International Student Services Housing & Dining Student Organizations Campus Recreation Career Services Health Center Student Accessibility New Student Programs Office of Student Affairs Find Your Admission Counselor Request Information Quick Links News Events Calendar Maps Athletics Contact TU Information For... Future Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Veteran Students Undergraduate Students International Students Graduate Students Law Students Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How do I interview for admission? Where is the new student checklist? How do I schedule a visit? What majors are offered? How much does TU cost? How can I transfer to TU? Close Search Link to site home page Office of Admission > International Admission > Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions INTERNATIONAL ADMISSION International Undergraduate Application Checklist Transcript Evaluation English Proficiency Requirement Tuition, Fees and Expenses International Student Scholarships Transfer Credits Frequently Asked Questions Does TU offer scholarships to international students? TU is able to offer merit-based (academic) scholarships to international undergraduate students from $4,000 to $15,000. There is no separate application process for the scholarship. What is the total cost of tuition and fees? As of 2021, the total cost of undergraduate tuition for 1 academic year is currently $45,566 USD. With added living expenses, books, etc. the total estimated cost of attendance for 1 year is $66,502 USD. Can I live off campus to save money? All undergraduate students are required to live on campus for their first and second year at TU. First year freshmen are required to live in our residence halls. Second year students are eligible to live in TU’s on-campus apartments. After completing their second year, students may live off campus if they wish. I went to a high school where the medium of instruction is English. Will you accept a letter from my school instead of English test scores? No. Because we must gauge your ability to succeed as a TU student individually, a letter from your school regarding their medium of instruction will not fulfill our English Language Proficiency requirement. You can read more on how to fulfill this requirement here. I haven’t taken and English Proficiency test before. Can I submit an essay to prove my English language ability? No. You must submit results from one of the exams on this page. Can I work while I am a TU student? International students are eligible to work part time in on-campus positions only. Immigration law prohibits any one on an F or J visa to work outside of their educational institution. International students are not eligible to work in positions labeled ‘Work Study.’ Are there any additional scholarship opportunities after I’ve received my initial scholarship award? Each applicant is evaluated for academic scholarship awards at the time of admission. Academic merit scholarships will be valid for four years (eight semesters). The Office of Admission only awards scholarships to incoming students. Do you offer full tuition scholarships? The University of Tulsa offers one select full tuition scholarship program, the Presidential Scholarship. You can learn more about the application process for that scholarship here. Can international students get financial aid? Financial Aid through FAFSA is only available to U.S. citizens, therefore international students are not eligible for Financial Aid. We do not accept the CSS Profile at this time. I’ve submitted my application materials, but my application portal checklist shows an X mark. What should I do? Some application documents require manual processing. Please allow up to 2 business days for your application material to be approved by our staff. How do I get my I-20? For TU to issue you an I-20 you must first be admitted to The University of Tulsa. Once admitted, you will need to submit the Confirmation of Financial Resources form through your applicant portal. Through this form you will prove your ability to support yourself while at TU by showing a bank statement from your personal bank account or that of your sponsors or family. If the sponsor is not a family member, you will need to include information regarding their relationship to you in that form. What do I do after I receive my I-20? After you receive your I-20 (F-1) or DS-2019 (J-1) from The University of Tulsa, follow the U.S. Embassy/Consulate’s instructions to schedule an interview for your visa. It is important to apply for your visa as far in advance as possible. Many consulates recommend that appointments be made no more than 120 days from the intended date of travel, but some can make earlier arrangements for interviews. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT