Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Welcome to the Wolfpack This page provides information for 2022 applicants who have received an admit decision to NC State. New Student Checklist View deadlines for your next steps as an admitted student including information on applying for scholarships, financial aid, housing and more. Get started Run With Us You’ve done what it takes to be accepted by NC State. Now it’s time for you to accept the invitation. We’re amazed by your accomplishments, talents and potential. We can’t wait to see what you’ll Think and Do at NC State. Log in to your wolfPAW account to respond to your offer of admission by May 1 or within 10 days if you are accepted after May 1. First-year applicants admitted to Spring Connect have until June 1 to confirm their enrollment for spring 2023. #3 Return on Investment Among NC Colleges Payscale #6 Best College City in America WalletHub Top 10 Best Value Among Public Universities Nationally U.S. News & World Report It’s Time to Celebrate Hear from current students and alumni about why they chose NC State. Join the Pack and show us your Wolfpack pride by using #IChoseNCState. Optional Summer Course NC State offers an optional free two-credit hour online course over the summer to incoming first-year and transfer students. The course encourages students to explore multiple disciplines, connect with the Wolfpack community, and to Think and Do with course material. This summer’s course will run for five weeks during Summer Session II (June 27 – July 29) and will focus on the future of food. Learn more about the course Next Steps With Admissions New Student and Family Orientation View dates and requirements for New Student Orientation. Learn more Check your wolfPAW account for upcoming deadlines and missing enrollment items. All enrollment items are due by July 15 for fall admits. Submit final transcripts – You must provide an official final transcript from all institutions you attended prior to enrolling at NC State. Review transfer credits – After your official final transcript has been processed by our office, credit will be awarded for any transferable courses. After being admitted, transfer students can view a transfer summary report on MyPack Portal. View all credit opportunities here. Submit official test scores – If test scores were used in your application review, you must submit official SAT or ACT test scores prior to enrolling. Use SAT college code 5496 or ACT college code 3164. Submit AP or IB exam scores – If you would like to receive credit for AP exams, you must submit official AP scores from College Board. Learn more about sending AP exam scores here, and see how NC State awards credit for AP exams here. VIDEO RESOURCES University Housing Whether you’re looking for the close-knit community of a village or the diverse social opportunity of a traditional residence hall, we have the housing option that’s right for you. Watch now Parent Welcome We recognize the support and value Pack Parents and Families add to our community. View resources available to families to help make the best decision for their student. Watch now #1 Best Public College for Your Money in N.C. Money See what makes us affordable #1 Best Undergrad Entrepreneurship Program in the Southeast Princeton Review #2 Best Place to Live in the U.S. (Raleigh-Durham) U.S. News & World Report Choose NC State Make the Wolfpack your home by confirming your enrollment by May 1. Confirm your enrollment Students attend Convocation 2021 at the Court of North Carolina. Chancellor Woodson spoke and the band played and taught the students NC State songs Explore Our Campus Your next four years will be spent living, learning and experience life at NC State. Whether it’s in the classroom, at the student union or in the residence halls – you’ll find community here. We’ve created virtual tours for you to experience campus for yourself. Explore the main areas of campus and hear from current students about their experiences at NC State. Stake our your favorite spot on campus before you arrive! Virtual campus tourS Main Campus The historic heart of NC State includes North, Central and South campuses, where students live, attend classes and share meals. Take a tour Centennial Campus The hub of innovation, research and partnership at NC State — and home to the College of Engineering and the Wilson College of Textiles. Take a tour Tour Our Residence Halls Walk through the halls of your future home. View 3D videos of each residence hall on campus. Get started Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.