Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Admissions Search Menu Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour Search Admissions Frequently Asked Questions Application Requirements Review our graduate programs' application requirements here. View Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Answers to our most commonly asked admissions questions. How do I apply? Brown participates in SOPHAS, a centralized application portal for schools and programs of public health. Apply via SOPHAS Do you offer application fee assistance? Yes; please read more on our page: Application Fee Assistance When is the application deadline? Application deadlines vary by program. Visit our Admissions Requirements page for a comprehensive list of program deadlines. Admissions Requirements Are standardized test scores like the GRE required? No. Programs at the Brown University School of Public Health do not require standardized test scores. Does Brown have a minimum GPA requirement? Brown does not have a minimum GPA requirement and every application is reviewed holistically by committee. Are there specific prerequisite coursework or degree requirements? Competitive applicants demonstrate strong quantitative, qualitative, and writing skills in the form of coursework, standardized test scores, and research and/or work experience relevant to your intended field of study. All applications are reviewed holistically. Specific program requirements: Biostatistics: Master's Applicants (AM or ScM): Three semesters of calculus, one semester of linear algebra, and at least one semester of probability. The AM and ScM programs require the same coursework, however, the ScM program includes a project or thesis. PhD Applicants: Three semesters of calculus and advanced undergraduate courses in linear algebra and probability. Clinical and Translational Research (Certificate or ScM) Applicants: Must be physicians, doctorally-trained basic scientists, or students in doctoral programs or medical school. Do you have a personal statement length requirement? Admissions committees do not have a minimum/maximum personal statement length requirement. We encourage you to be succinct while ensuring that you provide enough context to demonstrate your motivations for pursuing the program. Are there additional requirements for international students? TOEFL Scores TOEFL scores are required for international applicants, however, the Graduate School at Brown details a list of exceptions. Applicants should submit official TOEFL scores to both code 3094 (Brown University) and 5688 (SOPHAS). IELTS scores are also accepted. International Transcripts SOPHAS requires international transcripts to be evaluated by World Education Services (WES). Please see SOPHAS' instructions for more information. How many applications do you receive and how many students enroll each year? The number of applications received varies by year and program. With holistic application review, we encourage you to apply to the program offering the best path for you, based on your experience, interests, and long-term career goals. Class profiles are detailed on our By The Numbers page: By The Numbers Should I apply to a master's or PhD program? Applicants may apply to only one graduate program per application cycle. Generally speaking, admission to our PhD programs is more competitive due to higher application volume and the competitiveness of the applicant pool. While not required, PhD applicants with related master’s degrees, research/publications, and/or experience are often more successful in gaining admission. Unfortunately, we cannot assess your competitiveness prior to submitting your application, so we encourage you to make an informed decision using all available resources. Do my letters of recommendation have to be written by professors? Your recommenders must be in a position to speak to your academic, research, and/or work-related aptitudes relevant to your intended field of study. Of your three required recommendation letters, we strongly encourage you to submit at least two from faculty. Is it possible to pursue a part-time program? Part-time enrollment requests for master’s students are welcomed and considered on a case-by-case basis. May admission to a graduate program be deferred? Admitted applicants are encouraged to connect with their Graduate Program Director to discuss deferral requests. How and when will I know if I am admitted? Decision notifications vary by program and department, and all offers are made by the Graduate School. We encourage you to check with your individual program for more information. What does it cost to attend and do you have scholarships? Tuition, fees, and funding opportunities are outlined on the Tuition and Funding page: Tuition and Funding May I schedule a visit to learn more about your program? We offer many opportunities to connect throughout the year in-person and virtually, on and off campus. Applicants are encouraged to attend events on our Admissions Events Calendar and to tour the School of Public Health virtually or in-person. Brown University also offers a virtual campus tour. Application Requirements Review our graduate programs' application requirements here. View Requirements Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Frequently Asked Questions Open details for Frequently Asked Questions Bookmark this Page