Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Fun Facts Nassau Hall, home to the Office of the President and other senior administrators, served as the nation’s capital for four months and eight days in 1783, when it played host to meetings of the Continental Congress. The American Whig-Cliosophic Society is the oldest college literary and debating club in the United States. Whig-Clio graduates include two U.S. presidents, two U.S. vice presidents and four U.S. Supreme Court justices. The use of the word “campus” (Latin for “field”), to mean the grounds of a college, originated at Princeton. The Princeton University Chapel is the third largest University chapel in the world. The Carl A. Fields Center for Equality and Cultural Understanding is named after Dr. Carl Fields, the first African American dean at an Ivy League institution. Charles “Pete” Conrad, a 1953 alumnus, NASA astronaut and the commander of the Apollo 12 mission, took a Princeton flag to the moon in November 1969. In 1947, Albert Einstein, Nobel Prize-winning physicist and guest lecturer at Princeton, attended the first official Shabbat program sponsored by Princeton Hillel. On the front lawn of Maclean House, the original president’s house and now home of the University’s alumni office, sit a pair of sycamore trees that were planted to commemorate the repeal of the Stamp Act in 1766. These are the oldest trees on campus and may live for 600 years. The Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library houses more than 60,000 senior theses, including those of Sonia Sotomayor ’76, Ethan Coen '79, David Duchovny '82, Michelle Obama '85, Brooke Shields '87 and Ted Cruz '92. Twenty-six thousand alumni, family and friends attend Reunions every year. At Princeton, every class has a reunion every year. Three members of the U.S. Supreme Court—Justices Samuel Alito '72, Sonia Sotomayor '76 and Elena Kagan '81—are graduates of Princeton. “A Beautiful Mind,” the Academy Award–winning film about the famous Princeton mathematician John Forbes Nash (a Princeton graduate alumnus), was filmed on campus. Some fictitious characters dreamed of or attended Princeton too: Bruce Wayne in the superhero film “Batman Begins”; Carlton Banks in the TV comedy series the “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air”; Sam Seaborn in the political serial drama "The West Wing"; Olivia Pope in the ABC drama “Scandal.” Princeton played in the first-ever intercollegiate football game, against Rutgers, in 1869. In 2016, the Princeton University women’s basketball team earned the Ivy League’s first ever at-large bid to the NCAA tournament. In 2015, the team went through the regular season undefeated, with a record of 30-0. Lake Carnegie, home to the Princeton University men's and women's crew teams, meets Olympics standards and is the training course for Team USA Rowing. Princeton has won more Ivy League titles than any other member of the League. Religious Resources Office of Religious Life A place for all Explore Academics Princetoniana A collection of Princeton history Dig Deeper Diverse Community Carl A. Fields Center For Equality & Cultural Understanding Learn More Full content of http://fieldscenter.princeton.edu/ Academics Princeton University Library More than eight million books Check It Out Full content of http://www.princeton.edu/main/library/ Campus Life The American Whig-Cliosophic Society The oldest collegiate debate and political union in the United States Get Involved Athletics Ashleigh Johnson '17 Olympic Gold Medalist Meet Ashleigh Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746