Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Undergraduate Admissions Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy First-Year ApplicantsIt all starts here Transfer ApplicantsEasy transition Check Application Status Costs & Aid Apply for Aid Financial Aid Eligibility Costs to Attend Financial Aid Calculator Value of a Cornell Education Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Facts Frequently Asked Questions Cornell A-Z Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections You are here Home » Prospective Students print share Facebook Twitter Prospective Students What you need to know about admissions: First-Year Applicants – Learn about the application process. Transfer Applicants – Learn about the transfer process. International Student Applicants – Find additional information and application tips here. Virtual Visit – Watch our online information session, meet our students, and more. Admissions Blog – Read the latest post. First-year Student Requirements – Review the high school preparation that is required for admission. Deadlines – Know the important dates for early decision, regular decision, and financial aid. Financial Aid Calculator – Use this tool to estimate your eligibility for need-based financial aid from Cornell. International Financial Aid – Find additional information on financial aid for international students here. Financial Aid Information for DACA, Undocumented, and Green Card Applicants – Find additional information on financial aid for DACA, Undocumented, and Green Card Applicants. Plan Your Visit – Attend an information session, take a campus tour, observe a class. Cornell in Your Hometown – See if Cornell is visiting your area. Entering Class Profile – This provides a brief summary of the profile of Cornell's most recent incoming class. Areas of Study – Explore the depth and breadth of Cornell in the Academic pages that outline the many ways you can study: Biology Business Pre-Med/Vet Pre-Law Join our mailing list – Sign up for email updates. Contact an Admissions Representative – See our list of regional representatives. Contact a Student – Email a student. Explore Cornell: College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Arts and Sciences Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management College of Engineering College of Human Ecology School of Industrial and Labor Relations Cornell A-Z – From Cornell's American Indian Program to the Women's Resource Center, you'll find it all here. Caring Community – A gateway for all of the support services Cornell has to offer. CornellCast – Check out this interactive look at Cornell. Events Calendar – See a play, attend a concert, support a cause. The Cornell Daily Sun – Read all about it! Academic Programs – Satisfy your intellectual curiosity. Cornell Athletics – Become a fan. The Cornell Commitment – Learn about three programs that recognize, reward, and encourage further development of a select group of students. Undergraduate Admissions Prospective Students Transfer Students Admitted Students International Students Counselors Parents and Families Contact Us From your first questions about Cornell to the completion of your application, the Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you find the information you need. Website Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. University Privacy Statement Undergraduate Admissions Office Cornell University 410 Thurston Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 admissions@cornell.edu Tel: 607.255.5241 Fax: 607.255.0659 © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment Admitted Students