Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Undergraduate Admissions Admissions right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) right arrow down arrow Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow In-Person Campus Tour right arrow down arrow Visitor Guidelines Campus Parking and Walking Directions Group Visit Self-Guided Visit Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First NEXT Innovation Scholarship Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media Virtual Tour Visit Campus Are you an admitted student for Fall 2022? Log in to view your personalized list of Spring 2022 admitted student events! In-Person Visit Options We are always excited to welcome students to the University of Cincinnati (UC). Come see UC through the eyes of a current student on a one-hour, guided walking tour of campus and select to attend a College Close-Up session to hear from the academic college that interests you most before or after your campus tour. Register using the link below. Prior to your visit, please review your visitor guidelines. Review Visitor Guidelines Get Parking Info and Walking Directions In-Person Campus Tour & College Close-Up Session Morning Campus Tours – Offered Monday through Friday 9 AM - 10:30 AM 9 AM - 9:30 AM | Welcome (check-in begins at 8:45 AM) 9:30 AM - 10:30 AM | Guided Walking Tour 11 AM - 12:30 PM (check-in begins at 10:45 AM) 11 AM - 11:30 AM | Welcome 11:30 AM - 12:30 PM | Guided Walking Tour Afternoon Campus Tours – Offered on Monday and Friday 1 PM - 2:30 PM (check-in begins at 12:45 PM) 1 PM - 1:30 PM | Welcome 1:30 PM - 2:30 PM | Guided Walking Tour Register for a campus tour and college close-up (First Year Students) Register for a campus tour and college close-up (Transfer Students) Tour Availability and Pre-Registration We will offer tours on Monday - Friday. Be sure to check for availability and register for a campus tour before confirming your travel plans. Pre-registration is required. We will not be able to accommodate walk-in visitors and guests. Group Visit Bring your group to campus and experience the University of Cincinnati! Learn more about our group visit opportunities and register for a visit on our group visit web page. Self-Guided Visit Explore the University of Cincinnati on your own! Check out our self-guided visit web page for more information. College Fair Throughout the year, representatives from the Undergraduate Office of Admissions travel to various high schools and college fairs throughout the country and the world. Find out when we will be coming to you and learn more about the opportunities available at Cincinnati. Availability of in-person offerings is subject to change based on area health and safety trends. We’ll notify you if your visit is canceled. Read more about in-person guidelines, protocols, and our cancellation policy. >> Virtual Options Explore the University of Cincinnati from the comfort of your own home! Nothing beats an in-person tour of our beautiful campus, but our immersive virtual tour is the next best thing. Our virtual tour provides 360-degree video and virtual reality experiences around campus and into residence halls, classrooms and more. Join representatives from the Office of Admissions for a Virtual Campus Visit or register for a College Close-Up to hear from the academic college that interests you most. Register for a virtual campus visit Register for a Virtual College Close-Up Register for an international virtual event Other Virtual Offerings Explore Our Residence Communities Virtual Event Series Find your major fit by exploring the many academic opportunities here at Cincinnati. Learn about topics such as cooperative education, architecture vs. architectural engineering, choosing the best pre-medicine path for you, and more. Click the link below to register for the sessions that interest you most. register for virtual event series sessions Virtual Campus Tour Take a guided, aerial tour of our world-renowned campus and see where Next lives. The University | Beautiful. Urban. Distinct. View Campus Gallery We think our campus is inspiring, but don't just take our word for it! Continually recognized as one of the Most Beautiful College Campuses (Forbes), Cincinnati is an urban campus with green space to spare. We think you'll agree with the New York Times that the University of Cincinnati has the "most ambitious campus-design program in the country." The true beauty of the campus extends beyond the built environment to our diverse academic settings, cutting edge laboratories, open green spaces, and winding pathways, all of which have been designed to both arouse intellectual curiosity and prompt a healthy social culture. People thrive on our campus because it is a place where they can learn, problem solve, collaborate with one another, or simply have meaningful and memorable college experiences. The City | Big-city adventure, small-town charm. View Cincinnati Gallery In the city of Cincinnati, you'll never be bored! Whether you are looking for professional opportunities, creative inspiration, or simply a great place to make memories with friends, you are in for something special in Cincinnati. It is a city in the midst of an exciting urban revival and a place known for its love of the arts, passion for sports, and its seriously impressive local food. As the center of culture and commerce for a region of more than two million people, the Queen City is an important hub of the Midwest. It's our source for professional opportunities, celebration, and culture. Our backyard is home to nine Fortune 500 companies and lays claim to one of the most vibrant startup ecosystems in the nation. Inhabitants of Cincinnati experience big-city amenities while enjoying a small-town friendliness and collaborative feel that is characteristic of the Midwest. The Students | Making an impact. The typical University of Cincinnati student is, in fact, not typical at all. That is what makes each and every student on campus so special. Our students push boundaries, challenge ideas, and make a way for themselves on campus and beyond. The University of Cincinnati is made up of a large and diverse community where tens of thousands of students, faculty, and staff come together each day to learn and live with one another. We have more than 44,000 undergraduate and graduate students across multiple campuses and our faculty and staff here empower them to challenge and change the world. The Experience | Greatness lies beyond the classroom. Experiencing Cincinnati means more than simply sitting in a classroom. This may be where you start, but the experience you have at the University of Cincinnati will propel you forward to whatever future you can imagine for yourself. Experiential learning drives us here at Cincinnati. From co-ops nearby to service learning overseas, we learn by doing and our students and faculty bring that real-world knowledge back onto campus where it informs our classrooms. It is part of our culture here and that experience is one our students keep with them and build upon forever. To begin your own Cincinnati Experience, apply today and join our Bearcat Community! Connect with Us Loading... Learn more about the UC campus and its students through our Instagram feed, stories, and takeovers. Stay connected with us on social! What are you interested in? The University of Cincinnati offers more than 300 majors and 100 certificate programs. We have everything from Classical Civilization to Classical Guitar. Find your interest: Keywords Search for programs magnifying glass Filter by: Program Award Filter by Program Award {{degree.Name}} College Filter by College {{college.Name}} Interest Filter by Interest {{interestArea.Name}} Location Filter by Location {{location.Name}} Clear All Filters remove close remove close remove close remove close Loading No programs to show. Try Broadening Your Search {{(programs | collegeFilter:colleges | degreesFilter:degrees | interestAreasFilter:interestAreas | locationsFilter:locations | searchString:keyword).length}} Programs Found CLOSE {{program.PlanDescription}} {{(program.SubPlanDescription != 'NONE' ? program.SubPlanDescription : '')}} right arrow down arrow {{program.PlanDescription}} Apply Request Information Program Award: {{program.Degree}} College: {{program.College}} Location: {{program.data.BaseInfo.Location}} Full-time program duration: {{program.data.BaseInfo.Duration}} {{program.data.BaseInfo.DurationUnit}} {{program.SubPlanDescription}} Learn More Compare remove close Compare All Remove All Close close {{cmpProgram.PlanDescription}} {{cmpProgram.Degree}} Full-time program Duration {{cmpProgram.data.BaseInfo.Duration}} {{cmpProgram.data.BaseInfo.DurationUnit}} What you'll learn Location {{cmpProgram.Campus}} Apply Learn More Featured News Regular blueberry consumption may reduce risk of dementia, study... May 10, 2022 Research from the University of Cincinnati shows daily blueberry supplementation for certain middle-aged populations may lower the chances of developing late-life dementia. CPS grad finds ‘UC makes dreams come true’ May 19, 2022 Benya Colleman is one of 10 students who has been awarded the University of Cincinnati’s Marian Spencer Scholarship created to recognize high-achieving students in Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS). How a compound becomes a drug May 9, 2022 Over decades of ups and downs, the hard work of University of Cincinnati alumnus John Drach paid off when the FDA approved a new drug he helped develop to treat cytomegalovirus. Query for this Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top