Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home Student Life Student Life No one benefits from a life of all work and no play. We encourage our students to be active, both inside the classroom and out. At Florida State, you'll find over 700 student organizations, an extensive array of intramurals to keep you active, a wealth of entertainment options, and countless service opportunities to do your part in making the world a better place. Live & Learn A residence hall is more than just a place to lay your head. It's the center of your collegiate life, a hub of social activity where new friendships are forged. Living on-campus is the best way to get involved, meet new people, and give yourself a leg up in the class room. It's a fact that students living on campus earn higher GPAs. With over a dozen residence halls on campus, you're sure to find one that fits your own personal style. Explore FSU Housing When you're ready to spread your wings, FSU's Student Government Association is prepared to help you find the perfect spot off-campus. Off-Campus Housing Listings Chow Down With a variety of meal plan options and 25 locations across campus, Seminole Dining has your food options covered. You can eat all you want at Suwanee Room and Seminole Café or grab a coffee between classes at Einstein's or Starbucks. Be on the lookout for new restaurants opening around campus and the new dining hall, 1851! Seminole Dining Noles Can Hack It At the newly opened Innovation Hub in the heart of campus, students have access to all the latest technologies and staff support. Build a prototype in the Design & Hacking lab, take your creation into reality using the Fablab's laser cutters and 3D printers, and then bring it to life with Raspberry Pi or Arduino boards and a little programming know-how. Leap into virtual and augmented reality with Oculus Rift, HTC Vive, Microsoft HoloLens, and 360° cameras. There's also plenty of hangout and collaboration space where you can get together with other Noles and create "the next big thing." After you've built up your skills in the Innovation Hub, show them off at the annual HackFSU hackathon! Innovation Hub HackFSU Get Involved College is an amazing time to discover more about yourself and what you're really into. FSU students are into a lot of different things, and have formed over 700 recognized student organizations to share their passions. Join a club, honor society, Greek organization, community service group, or start your own brand new student org to meet like minds and make lifelong friends. Nole Central The Center Fraternities & Sororities Gain a Global Perspective Florida State appreciates the importance of international study and cross-cultural activities that contribute to a student's overall educational experience. Some of the opportunities available to FSU undergraduates for engagement with global culture include: Gap Year Admitted freshmen may defer enrollment at FSU for one year to engage in meaningful and structured endeavors to complement their education. Students often participate in international volunteerism, internships, or special activities. Learn More Study Abroad Students can choose to spend a portion of their Florida State University careers studying abroad in over 15 countries, including our four year-round study centers in London, England; Florence, Italy; Panama City, Republic of Panama; Valencia, Spain. Learn More Other Opportunities Florida State offers numerous other opportunities for students to engage with the global community, both on-campus and abroad. This includes programs such as First Year Abroad, Beyond Borders, Global Café, and International Coffee Hour. Learn More Find What Moves You When class is over, it's time to play. At the Leach Recreation Center and Fitness & Movement Clinic, you can get in the zone on an extensive collection of workout equipment, run on the indoor track overlooking our 16-lane pool, and enjoy group fitness and personal training opportunities. Meet some new friends for a game at the Main Campus Fields, Rec SportsPlex, or Westside Courts. Play to win or just for fun by participating in one of over 50 intramural and club sports. Or, relax along the lake at the "Rez", FSU's lakefront property where you can sail, swim, sun, paddleboard, and more. It's all free for FSU students from Campus Rec. If you're looking for the true fan experience, Seminole Athletics are where it's at. Cheer on our 20 NCAA Division I teams as they complete in the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC). Go Noles! Campus Rec Seminole Athletics Are You Not Entertained? With tons of events and activities on campus, there's always something fun to do at the Oglesby Union's facilities. Enjoy music and comedy at Club Downunder. Get in a game of bowling or billiards at Crenshaw Lanes. Create a masterpiece at the Art Center. Marvel at the wonder of the FSU Flying High Circus, one of only two collegiate circuses in the nation. Catch free blockbuster, indie, foreign, or cult classic film at the Student Life Cinema. Battle it out in a tournament or just have fun playing the hottest games with your friends in the Student Life Center's Cyber Café. Oglesby Union Flying High Circus Student Life Cinema Get Around With one of the most compact campuses in the state, it's already easy to get around Florida State. But Transportation & Parking Services has made it even easier with a variety of services. Six multi-level garages, real-time parking availability counts, and valet services mean campus parking has never been easier. Seminole Express shuttle buses will quickly get you to and around campus. During late night hours, services such as S.A.F.E. Connection, Night Nole, and Nole Cab provide transportation around campus so you won't have to walk alone. If you're looking to get off campus, FSU students ride for free on all City of Tallahassee (StarMetro) buses, or you can pick up a Zipcar at one of three campus locations and go your own way. Transportation & Parking Quick Links Seminole Tribe Land Acknowledgement College & Career Planning Tool Career Center FSU Highlights Apply Online Visit Us Publications Check Your Application Status Application Changes Form Residency Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Professional Licensure Transfer Student Services Aspire TCC2FSU Program FSU-Panama City Campus The Graduate School Student Veterans Center Office of Accessibility Services Student Profiles "My extracurricular activities were essential to my undergraduate experience at Florida State - there is more to the collegiate experience than just academics!" Amanda Schell Statistics & International Affairs "Being an NOAA Ernest Hollings F. Scholar gave me the opportunity to travel across the country and meet and work with many respected professionals in our field." Connor Dacey Meteorology "I got to work with first-year students - and introduce them to leadership and getting involved with the community." Brian Menard Psychology Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University.