Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Apply / Getting Into Tulane / Tips for High School Juniors custom css-js - global Tips for High School Juniors Preparing For A Holistic Review As you start thinking about where you want to attend college, you should also be focusing on what you need to do to get into college. Every school has a different set of requirements for admission, so make sure you’re aware of what each school is looking for. At Tulane, we holistically review applicants by reviewing your standardized test scores, high school GPA and course selection, extracurricular activities, application essays, and letters of recommendation. We like to look at all these components so we can get a well-rounded picture of who you are as student and person. Finding Your Voice When it comes time to start your applications, try not to focus on what you think schools want to see or hear. We find that the best applicants are involved in activities in high school that they enjoy and are passionate about. The same goes for your college essays. The strongest applicants are authentically themselves and don’t try to impress by writing what they think admission committees want to hear. On the subject of college essays, Tulane has a required and an optional essay. As you might imagine, it’s always a good idea to submit the optional essay that challenges you to tell us “Why Tulane?” Engaging With Us Once you’ve got your list of colleges, it’s a good idea to start engaging with the schools. When it comes to Tulane, there are many ways to interact with us. We love when you come to campus so you can get a sense of what our students experience, but that’s not the only way to engage. Throughout the spring and fall, our admission counselors travel around the world to visit high schools and host regional events. If we aren’t visiting your area, or you can’t make our high school visit, you can still learn more about us by signing up for our mailing list, connecting with our current students, or following us on social media. Getting Into Tulane Class of 2026 Profile Interview Tips Plan Your Summer Tips for High School Juniors Instructions Curriculum Requirements Standardized Tests Application Status Deadlines & Forms Portfolios & Auditions Home-schooled Students Louisiana Applicants Gap Year Information Prior Criminal Conviction Did You Know? New Orleans is home to the longest bridge in the USA; the Lake Pontchartrain Causeway stretches about 24 miles connecting Metairie, the city’s largest suburb, to the Northshore of Lake Pontchartrain. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University