Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home FSU 25 Accepted Spring Spring Accepted Students Next Steps Residency Declaration Form All students who wish to claim Florida residency for tuition purposes must complete the residency declaration form before attending orientation. If you haven't completed your form already, visit Application Status Check to complete this task. Self-Reported Student Academic Record (SSAR) Update your Self-Reported Student Academic Record (SSAR) with your final, senior-year grades by logging in to the SSAR website. Submit the updates by clicking the Complete button at the bottom of the Review/Submit section. If you do not re-lock your SSAR, FSU will not receive your updated information. Final Review The Office of Admissions requires an official, final high school transcript sent directly from your school to the University. If you have dual enrollment credit, you must also send an official college transcript(s). All official test scores (ACT and/or SAT) must be sent by the respective testing agency to FSU. All official transcripts and test scores must be received by July 14, 2021. In addition to verifying the accuracy of your SSAR with your high school and college transcripts, and your self-reported scores with your official test scores, we will check your senior grades. At the end of the Fall 2021 term, you must send an official, final college transcript to FSU Admissions to show you have met all admission conditions. Performance Standards 15 Hour Requirement You must enroll in 15 semester hours of college credit at another institution in the fall. If you take courses during the summer, you must still take 15 semester hours during the fall. Our 15 hour fall requirement cannot be split between summer and fall. You should follow the Academic Program Guide at academic-guide.fsu.edu for major requirements and recommended college courses to be taken. GPA Requirement You must earn a minimum 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale) college grade point average in your fall classes with no grade below C. If you take classes in the summer, your college GPA for that term must also be 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale) with no grade below C. If you take summer classes, you must have an official transcript sent to FSU Admissions before the start of fall term. English Requirement You must enroll in ENC 1101 (the first English composition class), unless you have earned college credit for English composition through AICE, AP, IB, CLEP, and/or dual enrollment. Refer to Accelerated Credit at admissions.fsu.edu/credit for college credit awarded through acceleration. Math Requirement You must enroll in the required math for your major (MAC 1105, MGF 1106, or MGF 1107), unless you have earned comparable college credit for math through AICE, AP, IB, CLEP, and/or dual enrollment. Refer to Accelerated Credit at admissions.fsu.edu/credit for college credit awarded through acceleration. Refer to the Academic Program Guide at academic-guide.fsu.edu for your major's math requirement. Accelerated Credit Up to 45 semester hours of credit can be awarded by taking AICE, AP, IB, and/or CLEP tests and achieving appropriate scores. Accelerated credit cannot count towards your 15 Hour Performance Standard Requirement for fall, but may cover your English and/or Math Requirement. All official test scores must be sent from the testing agency to the Office of Admissions before the start of the fall term. Learn more about what credit you may be eligible for at admissions.fsu.edu/credit. Activate Your FSUID After accepting your non-binding offer, you will receive an email from FSU Information Technology Services (ITS) with your unique FSUID. To activate your FSUID, log in to the myFSU portal at my.fsu.edu, click Manage FSUID/Password, and follow the on-screen steps to complete the activation process. Please note, if you were previously admitted to the University a unique FSUID was already assigned to you. To gain access to the myFSU portal, please log in using the FSUID you were initially assigned. Orientation After activating your FSUID, you must register for orientation, which is a mandatory, multi-step process. Orientation registration will open in mid-September, and you are encouraged to register as early as possible for a session. Visit our Orientation Overview for additional information. Health Compliance To become health compliant, you must provide immunization information and proof of health insurance before you can register for classes. Visit Student Health Insurance to learn more about these requirements. Housing Review on-campus housing at housing.fsu.edu. The housing contract is available starting in September. Since housing is not guaranteed but determined on a first come, first served basis, it is important for you to submit your housing pre-payment early. Seminole Dining Seminole Dining provides food service on campus, and a variety of economical and flexible meal options are available. You can access detailed information at Seminole Dining. Loans and Financing If you have previously completed the 2021-2022 FAFSA, update it to include FSU's school code of 001489. If you receive Bright Futures, you must let the Florida Department of Education know that you will be changing schools for spring. Do so by logging in to your account at floridastudentfinancialaid.org. You may also call toll-free at 888.827.2004. For additional information, visit the Office of Financial Aid website at financialaid.fsu.edu. Complete AlcoholEdu & Sexual Assault Prevention Required Alcohol EDU and Sexual Assault Prevention Online Trainings for all incoming students. Florida State University invites all incoming students to complete two educational programs focused on serious issues facing students to help ensure a healthy and positive college experience. EverFi provides alcohol use and interpersonal violence (sexual assault, relationship violence, stalking, and sexual harassment) education. For deadlines, registration information, and frequently asked questions visit AlcoholEdu & Sexual Assault Prevention. Questions Please review our Spring FAQ page for answers to frequently asked questions. For additional assistance, please contact Katelyn Chandler at k.chandler@fsu.edu. Quick Links Career Center FSU Highlights Podcast Publications Application Changes Form Residency Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Professional Licensure Transfer Student Services The Graduate School Student Veterans Center Office of Accessibility Services Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University.