Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Advising and Mentoring Advising and Mentoring We want students to thrive at Princeton. The University has a wide range of resources to support you along your academic journey and to help you succeed in our community. The mission of the Office of the Dean of the College is to create the best possible undergraduate academic experience for all of our students. Our message is simple: Study what you love, take advantage of the opportunities around you to challenge yourself intellectually and find help when you need it among our extensive resources for academic support. Our world-class professors mentor and inspire students as teachers in their classrooms and as advisers on junior and senior independent work. Many faculty teach freshman seminars, in which small groups of students discuss reading materials drawn from faculty research that often represents cutting edge ideas across fields. All faculty are eager to see students during their weekly office hours. Our undergraduates often say that working one-on-one with a professor on their senior thesis is one of their most rewarding academic experiences at Princeton. All first-year students are assigned a faculty adviser, who will introduce you to academic life at Princeton, support your exploration of the curriculum, assist with the selection of courses, and eventually help you decide on a concentration. Departmental faculty representatives advise students on the selection of required courses in their chosen disciplines. First-year students also find advising support in their residential college community, which will continue to support you throughout your four years at Princeton. The residential college dean and director of studies help students shape their academic plans, and peer academic advisers in all disciplines offer their perspectives on how to make the most of the educational experiences Princeton offers. Directors of student life and resident college advisers work closely with students to help shape their residential and academic choices. You will always have someone to turn to when you need advice. Many academic support services are available free for students, including the Writing Center, which offers one-on-one tutorials, and the McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning, which provides study halls and peer tutoring in select courses and organizes study skill and time management workshops. Our superb academic program, provided by our world-class faculty and supported by our dedicated, talented and encouraging staff, make Princeton’s intellectual and educational environment for undergraduate students unparalleled anywhere in the world. Learn With Leaders Faculty Advising at Princeton Learn More Full content of https://odoc.princeton.edu/advising Faculty Profile William A. Massey Operations Research and Financial Engineering Learn More Full content of /academics/faculty-profiles/william-massey Undergraduate Blog Why Princeton? #MidwestMeetsNortheast By LaTanya N. Buck Learn More Full content of /blogs/why-princeton-midwestmeetsnortheast Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746