Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Flexible Study Plan Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Sophomore Summer Internships Research Study Around the World Your Dartmouth Plan Whatever your major, nearly half of your academic schedule over the course of four years is totally up to you—enrollment on or off campus, study abroad, internship, research, or employment. The Dartmouth calendar consists of four ten-week academic quarters per year: fall, winter, spring, and summer. There are 15 academic quarters, or terms, between matriculation and graduation; most students will take classes during 12 terms to earn their degrees. Students must take classes on campus for fall, winter, and spring quarters of their first year, for two of the three academic quarters of their final year, and for a summer quarter of their choice. Beyond that, where and when students choose to complete their coursework and take their leave terms is mostly up to them. Want to see some examples? Our bloggers have charted their D-Plans, sharing information about their favorite classes, their internship, research, and study abroad experiences, and even what they did during their non-academic quarters. Visit the profile pages for bloggers Diana, Love, Shuyi, and Robin to read about their D-Plan experiences. Consider the Advantages Dartmouth gives students more autonomy in shaping their ideal learning, research, and work experiences than schools that follow more traditional academic calendars do. Pursue internships during any season of the year—a huge competitive edge over students from schools that funnel internships into summer breaks. Spend in-residence "R" terms enrolled in classes on campus, taking advantage of labs, leadership opportunities, and arts and recreation throughout the region. Use off-campus "O" terms for language study abroad or foreign studies programs. Your financial aid follows you wherever you go. Schedule leave "L" terms to undertake field research, internships, travel, work, or to just take a break. Receive funding and networking support for "L" terms from Dartmouth resources such as the Dartmouth Center for Social Impact, the Dickey Center for International Understanding, the Rockefeller Center for Public Policy, the Dartmouth Career Network, and the Financial Aid Office. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog Instead of taking classes on campus with the new 25s, I will be taking classes at Queen Mary University London! Read More So Long US, Hello UK! Tulio Huggins 2023 Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback