Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Incoming Students and Vaccines You are here Home Apply Incoming Students and Vaccines About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information In accordance with the Philadelphia Department of Public Health, Temple University requires all members of the university community—including students, employees and volunteers—to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. All of our students (including those on our Ambler and Rome campuses) will need to provide proof of their COVID-19 vaccine or an approved medical or religious exemption prior to the beginning of the fall 2022 semester to participate in on-campus, in-person learning and activities. As we welcome new Owls to campus this fall, we want to assure you that this policy will help to safeguard the health and wellness of our community. See how many members of the campus community are currently vaccinated against COVID-19. Temple Vaccination Rates You can find more information below, including details about Temple’s vaccine requirements, guidance on how to upload your vaccine information and additional information about Temple and COVID-19 vaccines. CONTENTS Vaccine RequirementsUploading Your Vaccine InformationAbout the Vaccines Vaccine Requirements Students will be considered fully vaccinated two weeks after receiving either a one-dose or two-dose shot. For students starting this fall, you will be expected to be fully vaccinated and submit vaccine information to Temple before the start of the semester on Monday, Aug. 22. If you are not fully vaccinated by the start of the fall semester, then you risk losing access to your on-campus classes and activities. Please note, first-year students looking to select an in-person Orientation session this summer must be fully vaccinated or have an approved medical or religious exemption prior to the Orientation date. In-person Orientation dates are available June 20–July 29, 2022. You can also seek a vaccination waiver for medical or religious reasons. The forms can be found on the Forms tab of the student health portal. Please note that the medical exemption form must be signed by a licensed healthcare provider. These forms must be submitted by Monday, Aug. 15, so that they can be reviewed in advance of the start of the semester. The submission of a request is not a guarantee of an exemption. Read below responses to questions about the university’s COVID-19 vaccination requirement. You can also learn more about Temple’s vaccine requirements and COVID-19 vaccines on the university’s website. Why is the university mandating vaccines? As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, so too has the university’s response. The university’s decision to implement a vaccine mandate corresponds with rising positivity rates, the emergence of new variants and the city of Philadelphia’s Aug. 13, 2021, mandate requiring vaccination at institutions of higher education. What should I do if I am not vaccinated? Any unvaccinated student who is preparing to enroll at Temple should receive the COVID-19 vaccine as soon as possible. Students living in Philadelphia or the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania can refer to the university’s website for more information on getting vaccinated. If you do not live in Pennsylvania, you can find vaccines in your area at vaccine.gov. If I can’t get vaccinated, what do I do? The vaccine mandate is a requirement at Temple, but exemption requests will be considered if they are filed through our student health portal by Aug. 15, 2022. Submission of a medical or religious exemption waiver request does not automatically exempt someone from the vaccine mandate. You must receive approval from our student health team for an exemption. Members of our community who are ultimately approved for a medical or religious reasons must wear a mask indoors, continue to practice physical distancing when among others and be tested for COVID-19 twice weekly. Learn more about Temple’s testing program. How will Temple accommodate the safety of community members who are exempt from vaccine mandates? Anyone who is exempt from the vaccination mandate must wear a mask, maintain a safe distance from others and be tested twice a week (PCR or antigen test). Testing is available through the university. I’m an international student and am having trouble obtaining one of the accepted COVID-19 vaccines in my home country. What do I do? If you are an international student and not able to obtain a vaccine in your home country, or your vaccine is not one that is currently on the CDC’s list of approved COVID-19 vaccinations, please contact the International Student Affairs office at intl@temple.edu. Uploading Your Vaccine Information Once fully vaccinated, incoming students who have paid their enrollment deposit are required to upload a photo of their vaccination card to Temple’s student health portal to be verified by Student Health Services. This must be done before you come to campus. You will not be considered vaccinated by the university until those records have been received and verified. As previously mentioned, you can also submit a vaccination waiver for medical or religious regions. The forms can be found on the Forms tab of the student health portal and must be submitted by Monday, Aug. 15, so that they can be reviewed in advance of the start of the semester. About the Vaccines For more information about COVID-19 vaccines and how Temple is prioritizing the health and well-being of our community, we encourage you to visit the university’s COVID-19 website. If you have any questions about the university’s vaccine requirement, please reach out to vaxstatus@temple.edu. Visit the Vaccines Page Learn More About Vaccinations Find general information about getting vaccinated, frequently asked questions regarding COVID-19 vaccines and more. Visit the Vaccines Page Learn More About Vaccinations Go back to ApplyMore in Apply First-year Students Transfer Students International Students Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info