Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home First-Year Scholarships First-Year Toggle navigation First-Year Menu Admissions How to Apply Deadlines & Fees What We're Looking For Decisions Cost & Aid Scholarships Renewal Requirements Scholarships FAQ Academics Accelerated Credit Gap Year Info for Parents Info for Counselors SSAR Admissions Scholarships Scholarships offered by the Office of Admissions are typically awarded at the time of your acceptance as a first-year student. All accepted students are automatically considered for a scholarship. The scholarship criteria can vary from year-to-year depending on the academic profile of the incoming class and the funds that are available. Scholarships are very competitive and awarded based on academic merit (combination of academic weighted grade point average AND test scores). Students who are awarded a scholarship have typically earned no grades below B. Scholarship funds are limited, so students are encouraged to apply for admission by November 1. Typically, students will only receive one merit scholarship from the Office of Admissions but may be eligible for additional financial assistance by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). National Merit Finalist / Benacquisto Scholarship Florida Resident This prestigious scholarship is available to National Merit Finalists graduating with a standard high school diploma and who are awarded a National Merit, Corporate National Merit, or College-sponsored National Merit Scholarship. If you are a National Merit Finalist, you must list FSU as your first-choice institution by May 1. The total amount of this award equals the institutional cost of attendance, minus the sum of Bright Futures and the National Merit Scholarship, for a total value of over $66,000. This scholarship also guarantees admission into FSU's distinguished Honors Program. Out-of-State Resident Florida State University's Out-of-State National Merit Award scholarship package has a total value of approximately $71,776 distributed across four years. It includes a 100 percent out-of-state tuition waiver, a $12,000 Vires scholarship, and a $2000 NMSC stipend (if college sponsored). This scholarship also guarantees admission into FSU's distinguished Honors Program. For more information, please visit our renewal requirements page. Presidential Scholars Program and Scholarship The Presidential Scholars program is open to high school seniors who are admitted into the Florida State University Honors Program. The scholarship has a total value of $38,000, plus an out-of-state tuition waiver valued at $57,776 distributed across four years, and the program includes an innovative four-year curriculum. Detailed information about how to apply to the Presidential Scholars program can be found here. Recipients of this award must take a minimum of 15 credit hours per semester and maintain a grade point average of 3.0 or higher at Florida State. For more information on award renewal, please click here. Vires Scholarship Applicants are automatically considered for the Vires Scholarship. A separate application is not required. The Florida State University's Vires Scholarship is a total amount of $12,000, which will be distributed throughout eight semesters in $1,500 increments at the beginning of each fall and spring term. This scholarship would be in addition to the Bright Futures Scholarship awarded to qualifying Florida residents. Enrollment in 15 credit hours each semester Maintenance of a cumulative FSU grade point average of 3.0 or better Consistent, successful degree progress and course completion For more information, please visit our renewal requirements page. Mores Scholarship The Mores Scholarship is an award that recognizes select students who have shown academic excellence while facing significant socioeconomic, cultural, or personal challenges. The award is valued at a total amount of $12,000, which will be distributed throughout eight semesters in $1,500 increments at the beginning of each fall and spring term. This scholarship would be in addition to the Bright Futures Scholarship awarded to qualifying Florida residents. The Mores Scholarship is automatically renewed each semester if the following criteria are met: Enrollment in 15 credit hours each semester Maintenance of a cumulative FSU grade point average of 3.0 or better Consistent, successful degree progress and course completion For more information, please visit our renewal requirements page. Scholarship funds are limited, so students are encouraged to apply for admission by November 1. Partner Promise Scholarship The Florida State University Partner Promise Scholarship is an award for Florida residents graduating from one of our partner schools. The total amount of this award is $12,000, which will be distributed throughout eight semesters in $1,500 increments at the beginning of each fall and spring semester. Partner Promise Scholarships are automatically renewed each semester if the following criteria are met: Enrollment in 15 credit hours each semester Maintenance of a cumulative FSU grade point average of 3.0 or better Consistent, successful degree progress and course completion For more information, please visit our renewal requirements page. Scholarship funds are limited, so students are encouraged to apply for admission by November 1. Partner Schools: Duval County: Andrew Jackson High School, Riverside High School, Jean Ribault High School, William M. Raines High School, Westside High School, and Edward White High School Gadsden County: Gadsden County High School Leon County: Amos P. Godby High School Liberty County: Liberty County High School Orange County: Evans High School and Jones High School QUEST Scholars Program The QUEST Scholars Program of FSU's Center for Academic Retention & Enhancement (CARE) is an award for Florida residents invited to participate in the QUEST Scholars Experience. The total amount of this award is $4,000, which will be distributed throughout eight semesters in $500 increments at the beginning of each fall and spring semester. Selection for the program occurs during review of student's admissions application. QUEST Scholars can expect to have access to transition, academic and developmental services to thrive at Florida State and set the stage for a positive post-graduation experience. Participants in the program benefit from CARE resources such as academic advising, financial aid and financial wellness advising, tutoring, study rooms, wellbeing services, and specialized workshops on experiential learning opportunities. QUEST Scholars also have access to opportunities to attend conferences or explore graduate schools in preparation for life beyond FSU. QUEST Scholars awards are automatically renewed each semester if the following criteria are met: Enrollment in 15 credit hours each semester Maintenance of a cumulative FSU grade point average of 3.0 or better Consistent, successful degree progress and course completion Participation in the QUEST Scholars Experience For more information, please visit the QUEST Scholars Program website. For renewal information please visit our renewal requirements page. Scholarship funds are limited, so students are encouraged to apply for admission by November 1. University Out-of-State Tuition Waiver These tuition waivers are awarded to a limited number of admitted non-Florida first-year students based on academic merit/recognition of special talent in a fine arts program (i.e., Film, Music, Dance, Art, and Theatre). Merit: Admitted first-year students are automatically considered for this scholarship based on academic performance in the classroom and test scores. The scholarship is a 100 percent reduction (waiver) of the out-of-state portion of the tuition cost, valued at approximately $481 per semester hour ($14,444 based on 30 semester hours for the academic year, a total value of $57,776 distributed across four years). Please note that this award is prorated based on your actual enrollment each term. The Out-of-State Tuition Waiver is automatically renewed each semester if the following criteria are met: Enrollment in 15 credit hours each semester Maintenance of a cumulative FSU grade point average of 3.0 or better Consistent, successful degree progress and course completion The waiver amount is only applied toward tuition and does not include other fees, nor does it apply toward study-abroad programs. Talent: Students who are selected for this scholarship must be recommended by their fine arts major program after the completion of an audition, interview, and/or portfolio review. The scholarship is a 50 percent reduction (waiver) of the out-of-state portion of the tuition cost, valued at approximately $240 per semester hour ($7,222 based on 30 semester hours for the academic year, a total value of $28,888 distributed across four years). Please note that this award is prorated based on your actual enrollment each term. The Partial Out-of-State Tuition Waiver is automatically renewed each semester if the following criteria are met: Enrollment in 15 credit hours each semester Maintenance of a cumulative FSU grade point average of 3.0 or better Consistent, successful degree progress and course completion Continued enrollment in your specified major area of study The waiver amount is only applied toward tuition and does not include other fees, nor does it apply toward study-abroad programs. Additional funding may be available from the department. For more information, please visit our renewal requirements page. Scholarship funds are limited, so students are encouraged to apply for admission by November 1. Other Funding Opportunities To ensure the greatest likelihood of receiving financial support to attend Florida State University, you should apply early for admission and financial aid. The Office of Financial Aid awards assistance each year to eligible students in the form of scholarships, grants, work-study, and loans. Additionally, Florida State has resources that can help you find private sources of aid to attend college. In order to apply for need-based financial aid, applicants must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) for the appropriate academic year. To begin researching scholarships, you might start in your own school or community library or with your guidance counselor at your present school. Check out local civic organizations and businesses to see if they currently offer any scholarships. Beyond the local level, you can search through several Internet scholarship search programs. Below are other avenues to consider when researching scholarship opportunities at Florida State University. FS4U-Finding Scholarships for You Florida State University's campus-wide and centralized award management system for FSU Foundation scholarships. Students can view available scholarships for which they are eligible, apply for scholarships, and view and accept scholarship offers. Florida State Service Scholar Program Renewable scholarships for entering first-year and returning students who have a distinguished record of community involvement and a desire to continue to learn through service. Refer to the Center for Leadership and Social Change website for more information. Grandparent Tuition Waiver In 2021, the Florida Legislature amended Section 1009.26, Florida Statutes, to create the Grandparent Waiver. Out-of-state first-year students admitted for the summer or fall semester 2022 whose grandparent(s) currently reside in Florida, may be eligible for a tuition and fee waiver of the out-of-state tuition costs up to 110% of total degree hours. Florida State University has been allocated 31 Grandparent Waivers for the 2022-2023 incoming first-year class. Eligible recipients will be selected on a first-come, first-served basis as determined by the date the student submitted all necessary documentation. The awards are renewable until graduation with continuous full-time enrollment. Eligibility requirements include: The student must have a grandparent who has a legal relationship to the student's parent as the natural parent, adopted parent, or legal guardian of the student's parent. The grandparent must be a legal resident of Florida as defined in Florida Statue Section 1009.21. Apply as a first-year student to be a full-time undergraduate student for the summer or fall term immediately following high school graduation. Have a minimum 1330 total SAT score or 29 ACT composite score (no lower than the 89th national percentile). Upon submitting the Grandparent Waiver Request Form, the following documentation will be requested via your Application Status Check: Complete the Grandparent Waiver Verification Form to show the grandparent is a legal resident of Florida. Documentation evidencing student has met the minimum test score requirement. (Official or self-reported test scores). Your request cannot be processed until everything has been received. Grandparent Waiver Request Form Policies for the Grandparent Waiver are maintained by the Board of Governors of the State University System. Out-of-State Tuition Fee Waiver In accordance with Florida Statute 1009.26(12)(a) and Florida Board of Governors Rule 7.008(3)(m), all undergraduate students may request an out-of-state tuition fee waiver provided they have attended a secondary school in Florida for three consecutive years immediately before graduating from a high school in Florida and have applied for enrollment at a Florida institution of higher education within 24 months after high school graduation. Please submit the required documentation to verify eligibility for this waiver: Completed Out-of-State Tuition Fee Waiver Form Official Florida high school transcript Out-of-State Tuition Fee Waiver Form Southern Scholarship Foundation (SSF) The Southern Scholarship Foundation was established to provide outstanding students needing financial assistance with an opportunity to obtain a college education. The Foundation provides rent-free housing to deserving students in a cooperative living environment. The SSF currently operates 14 scholarship houses at Florida State University. Additional information can be obtained from the SSF, 322 Stadium Drive, Tallahassee, FL 32304, or by calling 850.222.3833. Air Force, Army, and Navy ROTC Scholarships The military offers various scholarship programs for students who are interested in attending college and serving their country through the Armed Forces. For more information, please call the Air Force (850.644.3461), the Army (850.644.1016), or the Navy (850.599.3989) for details. Athletic Scholarships Available to men and women who represent the University in intercollegiate sporting events. It is highly recommended that the student's high school coach contact the Athletic Department at Florida State. Florida's Bright Futures Scholarship Program The Florida Bright Futures Scholarship Program for Florida residents is the umbrella program for all state-funded scholarships based on academic achievement in high school. Applications and information regarding eligibility and renewal criteria for the various programs can be obtained from any Florida high school guidance office or by contacting the Florida Department of Education at 888.827.2004. Frequently Asked Questions What is the process for applying for a merit-based admissions scholarship and what are the criteria? All students who submit a complete application by the priority deadline are automatically considered for our merit scholarships. No additional steps or materials are needed. The minimum criteria for scholarship awards vary each year depending on the academic profile of the applicant pool. How many scholarships are awarded each year? The number of scholarships awarded depends on the funding made available each year. Do you have scholarships for international students? Admitted international freshman are automatically considered for our out-of-state tuition waiver scholarship. International students are also encouraged to review information on other funding resources at the Center for Global Engagement. When are students notified of scholarship offers? Students are notified of a scholarship offer at the time their admission decision is made available on the application status check portal. Are students notified if they are not offered a scholarship? No. FSU does not send notification to students who did not receive one of our merit-based scholarships. If no indication of an award is visible on your application status check portal, then we are not able to offer you an award. Will FSU match other scholarships I have been offered by colleges/universities? FSU typically does not engage in scholarship matching. Can I defer my scholarship? Only students admitted into the FSU Gap Year Program are eligible for scholarship deferral. All other students must reapply, and they will be evaluated for scholarship eligibility the semester they return. How do I accept my scholarship offer? Students do not need to contact the FSU Office of Admissions to accept their scholarship award. After completing next steps to secure a place in our first-year class, students will be able to accept their scholarship award along with the rest of their financial aid award. Please see the FSU Financial Aid Calendar and the Accept/Decline Award Tutorial Video for detailed information. I'm a National Merit Finalist. Am I eligible for a scholarship? National Merit finalist who list FSU as their first-choice institution with the NMSC by May 1 of their senior year are eligible to receive an annual college-sponsored award. National Merit Finalists are also eligible for either the Benacquisto Scholarship or a university-sponsored award. Please visit our scholarships page for more information. How does my admissions scholarships affect my Bright Futures/ Florida Pre-Paid Plan? The Florida Prepaid Plan qualifies a student as a Florida resident for tuition purposes. If you are receiving Florida Prepaid, you are not eligible for an out-of-state tuition waiver. Instead, we update your scholarship to reflect the in-state Vires scholarship. Your records will be updated as soon as you submit your Florida prepaid documentation. You must apply for Bright Futures during your senior year, so please contact your school, visit our Bright Futures webpage, or contact the Office of Student Financial Assistance at the Florida Department of Education if you have any questions. In the event you have Florida Prepaid and Bright Futures, Florida Prepaid will be applied to the tuition cost first. Then, any other funds awarded (scholarship, grants, loans) will be applied to your account balance, followed by the Bright Futures awards. Students can opt to have excess funds refunded to them via direct deposit with FSU Student Business Services. Will the scholarship cover my admissions tuition deposit and orientation registration fees? No. Scholarship funds are not made available until right before the start of the semester. You will need to submit the deposit as well as register and pay for your new student orientation by the published deadlines. Do you have scholarships for transfer students? Information on transfer scholarships can be found on our transfer finances page. We also encourage transfer students to review funding resources provided by the FSU Office of Financial Aid and review the FS4U scholarship database. Quick Links Seminole Tribe Land Acknowledgement College & Career Planning Tool Career Center Academic Program Guide FSU Highlights Apply Online Visit Us Publications Check Your Application Status Application Changes Form Residency Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Aspire TCC2FSU Program FSU-Panama City Campus The Graduate School Student Veterans Center Office of Accessibility Services Professional Licensure Transfer Student Services Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University.