Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home First-Year Decisions First-Year Toggle navigation First-Year Menu Admissions How to Apply Deadlines & Fees What We're Looking For Decisions Decisions FAQ Cost & Aid Scholarships Academics Accelerated Credit Gap Year Info for Parents Info for Counselors SSAR First-Year Admissions Decisions Decision FAQ Students who apply to Florida State University for first-year admission will receive one of the following admission decisions: Summer or Fall Admit If you were admitted for the summer or fall term, you must complete the following steps by May 1st to secure a spot in our first-year class: Claim the FSUID Pay the $200 non-refundable admission deposit Complete the mandatory orientation registration, select a session, and submit payment. Defer Please note a deferral is not a denial. However, we would like some more information before we make a final decision. Deferred students should complete the Deferral Reply Form through their Application Status Check and submit an updated SSAR with first-semester grade. We will also accept new test scores including the February ACT. Updated test scores can be submitted through the Self-Reported ACT and/or SAT Scores Form on the Application Status Check. Deferred students will receive an updated decision in early April. Seminole Pathways Offer Students selected by the Office of Admissions to participate in this program will be able to join us on the Tallahassee campus after completing one of the four pathways outlined. FSU Panama City Pathway Students start their FSU experience in the summer term at the FSU Panama City campus and automatically continue into the fall term. After the spring term, students may choose to continue their education at the FSU Panama City campus or request a transfer to the FSU Tallahassee campus for the summer or fall term. Students will need to complete a Campus Location Change Form at the end of the spring semester if transferring to the Tallahassee campus. More information on this pathway is available on the FSU Panama City website. FSU International Programs First Semester Abroad Pathway Students start their FSU experience in the summer by completing INR3932 Global Foundations, an online course offered through FSU International Programs. Following successful completion of the summer course, students will enroll for the fall term at one of our study abroad centers in London, England; Florence, Italy; Valencia, Spain; or Panama City, Republic of Panama. Students will be eligible to start at the FSU Tallahassee campus in January. More information on this program is available on the International Programs website. (Note: Separate fees apply.) FSU International Programs First Year Abroad Pathway Students start their FSU experience in the summer by completing INR3932 Global Foundations, an online course offered through FSU International Programs. Following successful completion of the summer course, students will enroll for the fall, spring, and following summer terms at one of our study abroad centers in London, England; Florence, Italy; Valencia, Spain; or Panama City, Republic of Panama. Students will be eligible to start at the FSU Tallahassee campus the following August. Non-Florida residents will have the opportunity to earn an FYA out-of-state tuition waiver for the remainder of their first undergraduate degree; Florida residents can earn up to $3,000 in non-recurring scholarship funding for the FYA program. More information on this program is available on the International Programs website. (Note: Separate fees apply.) Spring Transfer Pathway Students who choose this pathway enroll in at least 15 semester hours of college credit at Tallahassee Community College in the fall and must earn a minimum 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale) college grade point average with no grade below C. If students take classes in the summer at TCC, their college GPA for that term must also be 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale) with no grade below C. Our 15-hour fall requirement cannot be split between summer and fall, so if students take courses during the summer, they must still take 15 semester hours during the fall. College credit earned in high school through AP, IB, AICE, CLEP, or dual enrollment cannot reduce the 15-hour fall requirement. Their coursework must include ENC 1101 (English Composition) and either MAC 1105 (College Algebra, preferred math), MGF 1106 (Mathematics for Liberal Arts), or MGF 1107 (Topics in Practical Finite Mathematics) depending on math placement and their major's math requirement, unless they have already earned comparable or higher level course credit through an accelerated mechanism such as AP, IB, AICE, CLEP, or dual enrollment. Students should refer to the Academic Program Guide for their major's math requirement. Students should refer to Accelerated Credit for college credit awarded through acceleration. More information on this pathway is available on the Spring Transfer FAQ. Waitlist Offers to be placed on a waitlist will only be given in the Rolling cohort. Waitlist students can submit the Waitlist Reply form to confirm their placement and will receive notification after May 1 if there is available space in the first-year class. Spring Transfer Admit Students admitted as Spring Transfer must enroll in at least 15 semester hours of college credit at Tallahassee Community College in the fall and must earn a minimum 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale) college grade point average with no grade below C. If students take classes in the summer at TCC, their college GPA for that term must also be 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale) with no grade below C. Our 15-hour fall requirement cannot be split between summer and fall, so if students take courses during the summer, they must still take 15 semester hours during the fall. College credit earned in high school through AP, IB, AICE, CLEP, or dual enrollment cannot reduce the 15-hour fall requirement. Their coursework must include ENC 1101 (English Composition) and either MAC 1105 (College Algebra, preferred math), MGF 1106 (Mathematics for Liberal Arts), or MGF 1107 (Topics in Practical Finite Mathematics) depending on math placement and their major's math requirement, unless they have already earned comparable or higher level course credit through an accelerated mechanism such as AP, IB, AICE, CLEP, or dual enrollment. Students should refer to the Academic Program Guide for their major's math requirement. Students should refer to Accelerated Credit for college credit awarded through acceleration. Our office will periodically follow-up with Spring Transfer students over the summer and fall as we prepare for their enrollment in the spring. More information on this offer is available on the Spring Transfer FAQ. Deny If a student is denied admission and still wishes to attend FSU, they are encouraged to re-apply in the future as a junior level transfer student, preferably with an Associate in Arts degree earned from Tallahassee Community College. Denied students should not reapply for first-year admission. We will consider an appeal only if it reveals new academic or personal information that was not present in your initial admission application. Detailed information about our appeals process may be found here. Appeals will be reviewed at the end of May. Quick Links Seminole Tribe Land Acknowledgement College & Career Planning Tool Career Center Academic Program Guide FSU Highlights Apply Online Visit Us Publications Check Your Application Status Application Changes Form Residency Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Aspire TCC2FSU Program FSU-Panama City Campus The Graduate School Student Veterans Center Office of Accessibility Services Professional Licensure Transfer Student Services Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University.