Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Dartmouth's Global Impact Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Basecamp to the World At Dartmouth, we have taken the traditional study abroad model, erased its boundaries, and expanded its parameters. Study abroad here is not an isolated semester in another country. The curriculum and structure of the school year allow students to follow their research around the world. Our 10-week terms mean they can do so without losing step with the rest of their demanding academic agenda. Bottom line: Dartmouth graduates are equipped with global experience, connections, and opportunities that will serve them for the rest of their lives. Case in point The Earth Sciences roving field program, affectionately known as "The Stretch," is a semester-long geological road trip across the western United States and Canada. Students and faculty pile into a van and make their way from one significant geological site to the next. Dartmouth Professor Eric Osterberg leads students to Greenland, Antarctica, and the Canadian Rockies to study the impacts of climate change. Off-Campus Study From the exploration of Chinese language and culture in Beijing to the study of shrinking glaciers in equatorial Africa, our Off-Campus Programs transform the undergraduate experience. Taught by Dartmouth faculty members, the programs extend and enhance the regular curriculum by allowing students to study a culture or subject in depth in the part of the world where it can be experienced firsthand. Case in point The Astronomy Foreign Studies Program in South Africa gives Dartmouth students the opportunity to observe the southern hemisphere night sky at the national observatory of South Africa where nearby galaxies are visible to the unaided eye. Through first-hand observations and intensive studies, students learn about astrophysics and observational astronomy. One week of the program is spent at the national observatory in Sutherland (four hours north of Cape Town), where Dartmouth students have access to the largest telescope in the southern hemisphere, SALT. Internships & Fellowships Rich, valuable, life-changing global experiences are core to the Dartmouth curriculum. Healthcare, entrepreneurship, public policy, language study, climate change-the range of opportunities is as broad as the curriculum itself. Just about every course of study offers at least one global component. Case in point A native of Haiti, Théry Badin '18 speaks five languages and has had the opportunity to exercise all of them during his time at Dartmouth. He studied the impact of the Olympics on Rio while immersed in the language and culture of Brazil, helped build a community center in the Dominican Republican, and worked with a company providing healthcare services to the underserved of Haiti. Théry's life plan is to channel that experience into a leadership position at a nonprofit dedicated to aiding those living in distressed areas of the globe. The Dickey Center for International Understanding The Dickey Center supports curricular programs, internships, fellowships, co-curricular activities, and engagement with experts in support of research initiatives for undergraduate, post-graduate, graduate students, and faculty. The Center also partners with national and international research institutes, medical facilities, universities, and nonprofits to give the Dartmouth community unparalleled connections to the knowledge and experience they need to advance. Case in point With a double major in Chinese and economics and a minor in human-centered design, Colleen O'Connor '19 is earning the broad enterprise experience she'll need to launch her own global startup. She has spent weeks in China immersed in the language and culture, helped young women entrepreneurs formulate strategy for their Mexico City startup, and worked with a Peruvian nonprofit to enhance that organization's impact. Colleen will graduate with extensive business knowledge earned in the classroom and in marketplaces around the world. The Rassias Center Named in memory of the beloved Dartmouth Professor John Rassias, the center promotes cultural understanding and strengthens communication among people all over the world. A key component of the Rassias Center is a pioneering language training program called The Rassias Method®, which speeds language learning, increases language retention, and has students speaking and understanding in ten days. Originally developed for Peace Corps training, it has been adapted by language teachers worldwide. Dartmouth students and alumni cite it as a seminal experience in their interaction with the world. Case in point As a Spanish major, Drew McLaughlin '20 reaped a twofold benefit from the Rassias method. As a student, she developed her own language skills at an accelerated pace. As a peer-to-peer Rassias instructor for Spanish 1 students, she learned from exchanges with her students and deepened her expertise with the method. Global Village One of Dartmouth's unique living and learning communities, Global Village offers a rich residential experience that holistically equips students to thrive as ethical, engaged, and responsible world citizens. Students from all class years and from a broad range of cultures, nations, and disciplines live together in Global Village, sharing Dartmouth life as they expand their worldviews, hone their intercultural skills, and build lifelong relationships. Case in point Tony DiPadova '19, a resident of the Italian living and learning community in the Global Village, decided to join the living group after returning to Dartmouth from study in Rome. He enjoys exercising his Italian language skills on a casual basis and notes an unanticipated benefit-living with students from different class years and majors that he might not have otherwise met, except for their shared love of Italian language and culture. Learn more about global learning at Dartmouth. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog Rockefeller Global Leadership Program's Trip to Boston This weekend, I took a bus down to Boston for an excursion sponsored by The Nelson A. Rockefeller Center for Public Policy and the Social Sciences, commonly referred to by students as "Rocky." Read More Sydney Wuu 2024 My Language Documentation Class in Hilo, Hawaiʻi! During my junior winter, I took LING 54: Language Documentation while abroad in Hilo, Hawaiʻi, where we worked with the Satawalese language! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Triathlon Training: An Amazing Spring Break! What better way to spend Spring Break than training with the Triathlon team in Florida? Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 Winter in Hawaiʻi: Linguistics DSP 2022 Highlights! As I return to campus to start my junior spring, I can't help scrolling through my photos and seeing all of the amazing experiences our Linguistics DSP had in Hawaiʻi. Here are some highlights. Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Why You Should Study Abroad at Dartmouth Learning doesn't have to just happen in a classroom on campus. It can happen away from campus when you study abroad, where yes, you'll learn differently, but you'll also live differently in the best way. Everyone should study abroad: here's why. Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 A Beginner's Guide to Studying Abroad Read for a quick summary of Dartmouth's study abroad opportunities! Read More Robin Martinez 2023 Breaking the Bubble—My First Time out of the Country! Dartmouth has the reputation of being a small school tucked away in the woods. Far from being isolated, however, travel is easily accessible, if you so desire. Read More Emily Hemelt 2025 Study Abroad Programming! The English and Creative Writing FSP in London provided several opportunities for my peers and I to visit famous landmarks. These trips were highlights of the study abroad and allowed me to see places I might not otherwise have visited! Read More Estelle Stedman 2023 4 Winterims, In (and Mostly Out of) the Woods Dartmouth's 6-week winter break is strange to get used to at first, but it can be a wonderful time to relax and reflect. I'll be doing just that in this post, by remembering some notable moments from my four Dartmouth winterims. Read More Angie Janumala 2022 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback