Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Optional Arts Supplement The optional arts supplement is for students who have devoted a significant amount of time and energy to one or more art forms and who wish to have their work considered as part of their application. If you've excelled in architecture, creative writing, dance, music, theater or visual arts, and would like us to consider your talent as part of your Princeton application, you are welcome to submit an arts supplement via SlideRoom. Details for arts supplement submissions will be found on the SlideRoom website and below. Princeton values the arts in all forms. We cannot, however, evaluate areas outside those in which our faculty have expertise. Please read the descriptions for each area for further guidelines on how to submit your supplementary materials. Deadlines Early Action optional arts supplement is due on or before November 5 at 11:59 p.m. ET. Regular decision optional arts supplement is due on or before January 7 at 11:59 p.m. ET. Transfer optional arts supplement is due on or before March 8 at 11:59 p.m. ET. SlideRoom instructions On the Common or QuestBridge* Application, please indicate your intention to submit an arts supplement in Princeton’s member questions. You will then be provided with a link in the application to begin your optional arts supplement through our SlideRoom portal. Please keep in mind that you need to submit your application to Princeton University before you can submit your optional arts supplement through SlideRoom. You may save the link or return to this page after you have completed your application. Within SlideRoom, select the application through which you are applying to Princeton (Common or QuestBridge Application). Please use the same email address as you used on your Common or QuestBridge Application when setting up your SlideRoom account. *For students who are participating in the QuestBridge College Match, we will be unable to consider the optional Arts Supplement given the timeline of the review process. Fee waivers Each SlideRoom submission incurs a small fee. SlideRoom fee waivers are automatically provided for applicants who receive a Common Application fee waiver and who use the SlideRoom link provided in the Common Application. If you wish to apply using the QuestBridge Application and require a fee waiver for your optional arts supplement, please email uaoffice@princeton.edu directly. Write to us after you have selected your desired SlideRoom program but before you submit your materials. We cannot refund fees once they have been paid. Helpful Tips As one of your media uploads, we encourage you to include a resume if you think that will add to an understanding of your training and experiences. Or, you may include information about your training in the additional notes field on the SlideRoom Optional Arts Supplement. Please keep in mind, information you provide in SlideRoom will only be read by the arts faculty evaluating your supplement unless you submit it as additional information along with your application to Princeton. Changes cannot be made to the optional arts supplement after submission. If you wish to include an arts letter of recommendation, it must be requested prior to submission and arts resume must be included as one of the media uploads or copied and pasted in the additional notes section. SlideRoom only accepts one submission per program. SlideRoom will send you an email confirmation that your submission has been received. Receipt of your submission will also be reflected on your Princeton Applicant Status Portal within 24-48 hours. Documents (for example, additional academic information, research papers, etc.) should not be uploaded through SlideRoom. You may upload those materials through the additional information section of the application or on your Princeton Applicant Status Portal. If you have excelled in an area of the arts not covered by our supplement, we are still interested in seeing how your talent and expertise might enhance our community. You may submit additional materials or links to your work through your application or on your Princeton Applicant Status Portal. Although we cannot guarantee that the Admission Office will have time to review your work, we will include it in your file. If you are having technical issues with SlideRoom, please contact support@slideroom.com. For questions related to the Princeton optional arts supplement, please email uaoffice@princeton.edu. For more information about the optional arts supplement, please review our FAQs. Submission Guidelines Acceptable Formats: SlideRoom can accept any media file type but, the following file formats are optimized for browser-based viewing: Images (up to 5MB each): .jpg, .jpeg, .png, .gif, .tif, .tiff, .bmp, .tga Videos (up to 250MB each): .m4v, .mov, .mp4, .wmv, .flv, .asf, .mpeg, .mpg, .mkv 3D Models (embedded): .blend, .3ds, .dae, .obj, .fbx, .dwf, .osg, .osgt, .osgb, .ive, .lwo, .lws, .ply, .wrl, .iv, .shp, .stl, .bvh, .flt, .ac, .x, .dw, .3dc, .geo, .gta, .kmz, .vpk Audio (30MB each): .mp3, .wma, .ogg, .flac Documents (10MB each): .pdf Supplement Type, Category and Description of Acceptable Submissions: Architecture Submit samples of your work in architecture or design, including blueprints/plans, drawings, renderings, 3D models, photographs or video. $5 submission fee Creative Writing Categories: Fiction, Nonfiction, Poetry, Translations Include a portfolio of your work in any or all of the following media, totaling no more than five pages: poetry, short stories, novel excerpts and translations. Please do not submit journalism samples or complete books. $5 submission fee Dance Categories: Choreography, Performance Include a digital video of one or more solo performances of contrasting styles (modern, improvisation, hip hop, contemporary, ballet) and/or of your choreography (no more than five minutes total). Please do not submit group work unless you have a prominently featured solo or you are the choreographer. Art supplements for Dance should be accompanied by a personal statement related to your interest in the arts, and how you would like to integrate dance into your studies at Princeton (no more than 250 words). Please contact the Dance Program office during business hours at (609) 258-3017 for more information or questions about the program. $5 submission fee Music Categories: Classical Instrument, Classical Voice, Composition, Electronic Music, Jazz, Piano The Princeton musical community is rich in many kinds of music. This includes non-Western classical and popular music of many types. The Department of Music, however, can provide evaluations only of the performance genres for which formal instruction is offered. For further information or questions about the program please direct emails to Greg Smith at gsmith@princeton.edu. Please attach a resume as one of your media uploads that details your music training and accomplishments. Classical Instrument (except piano) — Include a 10- to 15-minute submission of advanced solo work that shows contrasting examples of expression and technique. Do not submit orchestral or ensemble work unless you have a prominently featured solo. Classical Voice — Whether you prefer solo repertoire, small group or large choral settings, Princeton offers countless learning and performing opportunities and we are eager to hear you sing. Your supplement submission should contain at least two songs, totaling no more than 10 minutes, that best demonstrate your level of technical and musical accomplishment. At least one submission should be from western classical art song or operatic repertoire, and at least one submission should be in a language other than English. You may additionally submit small ensemble work if this is an area of interest. Composition — Include a submission of one to three works that demonstrate your interests and abilities in composition. The Department of Music has a broad definition of composition, one that includes concert music, improvisational music, un-notated music, and while they don’t have the expertise to fully evaluate non-Western compositional traditions, these are also welcome. Submissions can consist of .PDF scores or recordings; recordings or MIDI mockups of scored works are welcome if you have them, but not required. Electronic Music — Include a submission of a work that shows your skill in electronic music composition. Jazz Composition and Arranging — Include a 10 to 15-minute submission showcasing arrangements of existing material and/or original compositions for ensembles of any size. Jazz Instrument or Voice — Include a 10 to 15-minute submission featuring contrasting solo work as an improviser with live or virtual accompaniment of your choosing. Standard jazz material is encouraged, but original material is welcome. Please do not submit large ensemble (e.g. big band) work unless you have a prominently featured solo. Please do not submit performances of solo transcriptions. Piano — Include a submission of work that best demonstrates your level of technical and musical accomplishment, preferably including one of each of the following: 1) the 48 preludes and fugues of J.S. Bach; 2) the first movement of a sonata by Mozart, Beethoven or Haydn; 3) any 19th or 20th-century solo work, not concerti. Please send submissions in the form of digital audio files. $5 submission fee Theater / Music Theater Categories: Performance, Writing, Design, Directing Students may submit short videos, writing samples or portfolio images to demonstrate their efforts in acting, singing, writing, designing and/or directing. Arts supplements for theater and music theater should be accompanied by a short personal statement related to your interest in the arts (no more than 250 words). Videos should be no more than five minutes in total length and should begin with a clear introduction of yourself and your role in the project shown. Performer’s videos could be two contrasting monologues, songs or other creative work. Writing samples should be no more than 30 pages long. We are more interested in getting a sense of you as an artist than in video production values. Further information or questions about the program may be directed by email to: jfonseca@princeton.edu. $5 submission fee Visual Arts Categories: Drawing, Film and Digital Video, Graphic Design, Interdisciplinary (including Sound), Painting, Photography, Sculpture We encourage applicants to include works that reflect experimentation and imagination rather than stylistic consistency. We also encourage including exploratory and/or preparatory works (such as sketchbook pages) to show how you think visually. Whether you are self-taught or have attended art classes, please represent the breadth, depth and complexity of your efforts. Test your digital materials to make sure they are viewable in their entirety before submitting them. If your portfolio includes work from more than one category, choose the category that is your predominant one, or submit under Interdisciplinary. Drawing, Graphic Design, Interdisciplinary, Painting, Photography, Sculpture – Your portfolio may include 5-20 images of your most recent work in any medium or across media. For Drawing or Painting submissions, if possible please include some examples that involve drawing from observation. For Interdisciplinary, you may include video in your portfolio as well, using the same submission requirements as Film and Digital Video (see below). Film and Digital Video – Submit up to a maximum of 10 minutes total of video, either from a single work or clips/excerpts from multiple works. Submit only as link(s) to YouTube or Vimeo (without any password protection). Files on Google Drive will not be reviewed. Include a Word document listing the title(s), running time, short description, your role in the production and the category: narrative, documentary, animation, experimental or interdisciplinary. $10 submission fee Undergraduate Blog One of the Best Classes at Princeton: Creative Writing 201 By Richard Ma Learn More Full content of /blogs/one-best-classes-princeton-creative-writing-201 Academics Lewis Center For The Arts Explore Full content of http://arts.princeton.edu/ Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746