Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Apply for Financial Aid back Click to Close Office of Financial Aid 6024 McNutt Hall Dartmouth College Hanover, NH 03755 (800) 443-3605 (603) 646-2451 Fax: (603) 646-1414 financial.aid@dartmouth.edu 100 Percent of students whose demonstrated need is met by Dartmouth - no matter who they are or where they're from. Meet with us! If you'd like to meet face to face to have your financial aid questions answered, contact us to schedule a Zoom. Resources & Information Click to Open Start Your Process US Citizen or Permanent Resident International Undocumented US Veterans Parent Residence: United States International Parent Residence: United States International Parent Residence: United States Jump To Process Step Click to Open Dates, Deadlines, and Forms Supplemental Forms After You've Applied Back to top chevrons up Dates, Deadlines, and Forms Click to Open Dates, Deadlines, and Forms We’re excited to learn about you, your talents, and your potential. Start here to see important dates and deadlines, and to find links to the forms you need to complete. Application Deadlines for Financial Aid Click to see more about: Application Deadlines for Financial Aid November 1st Early Decision February 1st Regular Decision March 1st Transfer Applications US Citizen or Permanent ResidentUnited StatesInternational InternationalUnited StatesInternational UndocumentedUnited States US Veterans FAFSA Click to see more about: FAFSA Dartmouth School Code: 002573 For U.S. citizens or permanent residents, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is the only form required to apply for federal aid, grants and loans. US Citizen or Permanent ResidentUnited StatesInternational US Veterans Income Tax Statements Click to see more about: Income Tax Statements Signed copies of all pages of your Parents' 2020 Income Tax Statement for your country of residence should be submitted to the Financial Aid Office. If your parents file separately, please send a copy of each parent's tax return. Tax returns must be in English. For more details please read "What documents do I need to submit for parental tax returns?" InternationalInternational Institutional Documentation Service (IDOC) Click to see more about: Institutional Documentation Service (IDOC) IDOC securely collects families' federal tax returns and other documents on behalf of participating institutions of higher learning. US Citizen or Permanent ResidentUnited StatesInternational InternationalUnited States UndocumentedUnited States Profile Application Click to see more about: Profile Application Dartmouth School Code: 3351 Nearly 400 colleges, professional schools, and scholarship programs use the College Board's CSS Profile to award their own funds. US Citizen or Permanent ResidentUnited StatesInternational InternationalUnited StatesInternational UndocumentedUnited States US Veterans Supplemental Forms Click to Open Supplemental Forms Perhaps you are having some difficulty completing the typical application. These forms are meant to address the more common extenuating circumstances. They are not required for every applicant. Supplemental Forms Click to see more about: Supplemental Forms Non-custodial PROFILE Waiver Request Form Non-Filing Statement for Parents 2022-2023 US Citizen or Permanent ResidentUnited StatesInternational InternationalUnited StatesInternational UndocumentedUnited States After You've Applied Click to Open After You've Applied As you proceed through your application, you might want to check your financial aid status. Check Your Application Status Click to see more about: Check Your Application Status In late November, applicants will be able to view your full financial aid application status via Dartmouth's Application Management System. If applicable, prospective students can verify that your CSS Profile application has been completed (with Dartmouth College listed as a recipient school) by signing in on the CSS PROFILE Online homepage and selecting "Check Status of Application." US Citizen or Permanent ResidentUnited StatesInternational InternationalUnited StatesInternational UndocumentedUnited States US Veterans Big Green News Feed All News Stories Dartmouth Adopts Need-Blind International Admissions Making Dartmouth Affordable to the Most Talented Students Darija, Tagine, and Starry Nights Dino Koff, Dartmouth's director of financial aid, "gave my parents a whole new perspective on how Dartmouth could be possible through various financial aid options," Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog Choosing Dartmouth! I can name you thousands of reasons why I decided to come to Dartmouth – from the natural landscape to the academic rigour, this is exactly the college I dreamt about as a high school student. Read More Antônio Jorge Medeiros Batista Silva 2025 Why Dartmouth I received my acceptance letter to Dartmouth almost a year ago. Getting accepted has certainly been one of the best things to happen to me, and could also be one of the best things to happen to you too. Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 My fall term in pictures: Because every picture has a story to tell. "The best images are the ones that retain their strength and impact over the years, regardless of the number of times they are viewed." – Anne Geddes Read More Adrian Chimboza 2025 An International Take on Financial Aid As an international student, affordability is often a big concern when picking which institutions to apply to. Let me tell you why that will not be on your mind when considering whether Dartmouth's right for you. Read More Guilherme Marinho 2022 An International Perspective: Financial Support at Dartmouth For a lot of students, myself included, cost and affordability are often the determining factors in our college search. Read More May Oo Khine 2023 First-Gen Friday! Each week in the month of April, student bloggers will be bringing a post to you called "First-Gen Friday" — a series of interviews with current Dartmouth students who are the first in their families to attend college. Read More Robin Martinez 2023 What Does Student Assembly Do? Student Assembly is Dartmouth's student government and represents the interests of all undergraduate students. Aside from fun projects, Student Assembly gets to work with Dartmouth's administration when making policy affecting all of campus. Read More Robin Martinez 2023 Working Part-Time in College A question that we're often asked in the Admissions Office is whether it's possible to work a job while going to school here. The answer is yes! Here are some ways to learn more about employment on campus. Read More Julianna Thomson 2020 I Learned How to Ski at Dartmouth The first time I ever stepped into a pair of skis was last Saturday, at the beginning of my first ski lesson at the Dartmouth Skiway. Read More Jenny Chen 2021 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback