Skip to main content Go to the U of M home page One Stop MyU Search Office of Undergraduate Education Office of Admissions COVID-19 Updates SNEAK PREVIEW: Calling all rising seniors! Explore campus and discover your path as a Golden Gopher this summer at an on-campus Sneak Preview event. Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Freshman Admission Transfer Admission International Admission Admitted Students Contact our Counselors Forms, Publications & Resources Come Work With Us! Academics Academics Overview Majors Colleges at the U of M Special Programs Research Rankings Academics and Support Learning Communities High School Course Requirements Life at Minnesota Location Opportunities Housing Study Abroad Big Ten Diversity Cost & Aid Cost, Aid, & Scholarships Scholarships Financial Aid Reciprocity Visit Visit Us Virtual Tours and Visits Apply How to Apply Application Checklist Missing Information Application Tracker Confirm Confirm Family & Counselor Info Parent & Family Resources School Counselors Breadcrumb Home Visit Visit Us Visit Us Explore the opportunities that await you at the University of Minnesota Twin Cities! We offer many ways to explore campus and learn about the experiences and programs that make the U of M a special place. We are offering our in-person 90- to 120-minute campus tours for prospective students and up to two guests (please call 1-800-752-1000 if you need other options for a larger group). You must sign up for your tour at least one day prior, to ensure our staff and safety plans are ready to go! No walk-in appointments available. In-Person Campus Visits Transfer Visits Campus Driving and Parking Directions Group Visits at the University of Minnesota In-Person Campus Visits Learn more and Schedule Your Visit Now Virtual Tours and Visits Unable to travel to campus at this time? Check out the many ways you can explore campus virtually below! Through online campus tours, weekly information sessions, and individual appointments, we can't wait to tell you about student life as a Golden Gopher. Nothing can replace the magic of seeing our Big Ten campus in person, but we are here to help you continue your college search virtually. Styled Content Online Campus Tours Weekly Information Sessions Individual Appointments Virtual Tours Launch Experience Student-Led Minneapolis Campus Video Walking Tour Student-Led St. Paul Campus Video Walking Tour Info Sessions Discover the benefits and resources that the University of Minnesota Twin Cities has to offer. From our Big Ten campus to endless research and educational opportunities, join one of our sessions to learn more about finding your place and path at the U of M. Freshman Information Session - Choose from our weekly general and college-specific online sessions. Transfer Information Session - Learn about transfer opportunities and college-specific admissions details. Group Visit Sessions - Groups of 10 or more students are welcome to virtually visit. We have several visit options that can be customized to fit your group’s needs. Virtual One-on-One Appointments Ask your specific questions about becoming a #FutureGopher Meet with an Admissions Counselor - Schedule an appointment and choose your platform: Zoom, Google, phone or email Meet with a Current Tour Guide - Depending on your interests or location, hear about the student experience by speaking with current U of M tour guides Contact Our Counselors Our admissions counselors are here to assist you! Find your Freshman Admissions Counselor - Connect with a freshman admissions counselor based on your college of interest, home state, or ethnicity Find your Transfer Specialist - General and college-specific transfer counselors are ready to help your learn more about the U of M Self-Guided Walking Tours Explore campus whenever you like with our handy walking guides Self-Guided East Bank Tour Self-Guided West Bank Tour Self-Guided St. Paul Campus Tour Office of Admissions | Office of Undergraduate Education Contact Us Email: Contact Us General Office: 612-625-2008 or 1-800-752-1000 Visit and Events Office: 612-625-0000 Fax: 612-626-1693 Follow Us Mailing Address 240 Williamson Hall 231 Pillsbury Drive S.E Minneapolis, MN 55455-0213 United States Resources Request Info Parents & Family High School Counselors Admissions Counselor Student Tour Guide Our commitment to improving diversity, equity, inclusion, and social justice. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue | Title IX © 2021 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Ethics Statement The University of Minnesota is a proud member of the National Association for College Admission Counseling (NACAC), which values and is committed to practicing ethical behavior in college admissions. For Students, Faculty, and Staff One Stop MyU © 2022 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement Report Web Disability-Related Issue Admissions Admissions Overview Freshman Admission Transfer Admission International Admission English Proficiency Information International Transfer Credit Evaluation Admitted Students Contact our Counselors Forms, Publications & Resources Come Work With Us! Academics Academics Overview Majors Colleges at the U of M Special Programs Research Rankings Academics and Support Learning Communities High School Course Requirements Life at Minnesota Location Opportunities Housing Study Abroad Big Ten Diversity Cost & Aid Cost, Aid, & Scholarships Scholarships Information for National Merit Semifinalists Financial Aid Reciprocity Visit Visit Us Campus Driving and Parking Directions Virtual Tours and Visits Apply How to Apply Application Checklist Missing Information Application Tracker Confirm Confirm Family & Counselor Info Parent & Family Resources School Counselors