Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home First-Year Academics First-Year Toggle navigation First-Year Menu Admissions How to Apply Deadlines & Fees What We're Looking For Decisions Cost & Aid Scholarships Academics Accelerated Credit Gap Year Info for Parents Info for Counselors SSAR Academics There are many factors to consider when choosing a college, but none is more important than academics. If you haven't decided upon a major, be sure to explore the variety of majors we offer. If you have decided upon a major, check out the types of courses we teach, and the opportunities for study abroad and undergraduate research. Frequently Asked Questions About Majors Choosing a Major at Florida State University Choosing a major is one of the most important decisions you will make and should be given the time and attention it deserves. Once you decide, whether it is at the onset of your college career or after spending a semester or two exploring your options, FSU provides you with an academic map to earn your degree in four years. We believe that opportunities for success are found within every degree program that is offered at Florida State University. As a student here, you will be able to choose and pursue experiences that reflect and define your unique focus. Thorough exploration involves reflection in three distinct areas: self, major, and career. Students wishing to complete studies in more than one field while at Florida State University have multiple degree program options to choose from. Degree in Three: a program designed for students who wish to graduate in three years or fewer. Double Major: Students complete the standard 120 degree hours while studying two majors, for which they receive one bachelor's degree. If the student's primary major requires a minor, their second major instead fulfills this requirement. Dual Degree: Students complete 150 degree hours while studying two majors, for which they receive two bachelor's degrees. Minor requirements are not waived. Combined Degree: Students take some graduate-level courses during their undergraduate career. Their graduate courses are double-counted towards both degrees, thus allowing students to earn both a bachelor's and master's degree in less time than it would normally take to complete both programs back-to-back. For more details, refer to The Graduate School. Major Exploration Before committing to a major, it is important that you understand all of the coursework required to complete the major and ways the degree is structured. Some majors at the University are limited access or limited enrollment which means that you must fulfill necessary prerequisite courses, earn specific grades, and/or complete a specialized application prior to gaining admission into the major. Each major at Florida State has a corresponding academic map listing sample courses and required milestones for every term. To gain a better understanding of the academic majors offered: View the Academic Program Guide to review program descriptions, academic maps, and departmental links for all majors. Access the General Bulletin to read course descriptions within every major. Use the Major Comparison Tool to compare up to three different majors. Self-Exploration This phase involves an understanding of your values, interests, abilities, and personality characteristics. When selecting a major, it is important that you are genuinely interested in the subject matter within your major and that the coursework aligns with your strengths and talents. To clarify your values, interests, and skills, please review the following: The Choosing a Major or Occupation Guide is a workbook, co-created with advisors from the FSU Career Center and Advising First. Contained within the book are reflective activities, lists of majors and careers, and decision-making exercises that assist you with sorting and prioritizing your options. My Majors is an online assessment that matches interests and strengths, and suggests majors that may be a good fit for you. The FSU Career Center offers assistance with exploring majors and careers to help find the right fit for your goals Career Exploration When you finish your four-year degree, you will either be seeking employment, or looking at graduate or professional school and then employment. It naturally follows that you should connect your academic studies at Florida State with career opportunities beyond college. Career exploration involves the exciting process of researching and testing the countless possibilities associated with your field of study and selecting the area that corresponds with your respective goals. Career exploration is an ongoing process and should begin when you enroll at FSU. It involves conducting occupational research, as well as seeking out part-time jobs, internships, volunteer work, and any other experiential learning that will help define your focus. To learn more about career exploration: Visit the Career Center website and investigate the many resources and services available to better understand career options. Review the Occupational Outlook Handbook for the latest career information, including training and educational requirements, earnings, working conditions, and projected job openings for literally hundreds of occupations. View O*NET Online, the nation's primary source of occupational information, providing comprehensive information on key attributes and characteristics of workers and occupations. Additional Resources For more academic information, we invite you to visit the following websites. Academic Program Guide Division of Undergraduate Studies Honors Program Study Abroad Center for Undergraduate Research and Academic Engagement Course Catalog / General Bulletin Quick Links Seminole Tribe Land Acknowledgement College & Career Planning Tool Career Center Academic Program Guide FSU Highlights Apply Online Visit Us Publications Check Your Application Status Application Changes Form Residency Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Aspire TCC2FSU Program FSU-Panama City Campus The Graduate School Student Veterans Center Office of Accessibility Services Professional Licensure Transfer Student Services Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University.