Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Academics You are here Home Academics About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information At Temple, academic programs are designed to shape your perspective through knowledge and experiences. Our interdisciplinary degree programs can be tailored to your specific interests and career goals. And, you have options to customize your course load to fit your needs and preferences, so that you can attend classes in-person, online or a hybrid of the two. Here, you can have a say in when, where and how you receive your education. Opportunity for Everyone At Temple, you’ll work with faculty mentors who invest in your education, and who challenge and inspire you to expand your capabilities. You’ll also find a robust support system to aid you in your study and help steer you toward your future. /academics/degrees-and-programs Degrees & Programs We have more than 150 undergraduate majors for you to explore. No matter which area of study you choose, you’ll be encouraged to participate and contribute meaningfully to the world around you. Links to Majors page /academics/schools-and-colleges Schools & Colleges Learn more about our 17 schools and colleges, how they prepare you for academic success, interdisciplinary opportunities across each, and more. Links to Schools & Colleges page /academics/academic-advising-and-resources Advising Our advising team is available to help you decide your academic career and help guide you throughout your time at Temple. Link to Advising page /academics/research-and-learning-spaces Research Discover our world-renowned research facilities, where you can work alongside peers and faculty on cutting-edge discoveries and innovation that positively impact the world. Link to Research page. /academics/faculty Faculty Get to know our esteemed professors, deans and industry experts. Learn more about how our faculty mentor students and how they are some of the most innovative changemakers, professors and scholars in the country. Link to Faculty page /academics/careers-and-student-spotlights Careers & Opportunities Our Career Services and internship programs help you think beyond college. Get hands-on, real-world experiences and start planning for your future. Link to Careers page Popular Classes Get a firsthand look at some of our most interesting and unique General Education (GenEd) courses offered across Temple’s schools and colleges. Then, explore the full breadth of courses you can take at Temple, all grouped by program or discipline. Black Politics in America Offered by the College of Liberal Arts, this course is an introduction to the fundamental concepts and principles of American government, with a focus on the evolution, nature and role of African-Americans in U.S. politics. Bionic Human In Bionic Human, housed at the College of Engineering, students explore how various injuries can be treated through advancements in bioengineering. Green vs. Grey: Improving & Sustaining Urban Ecosystems In this course, offered at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture, students have opportunities to deepen their understanding of planning, funding and installing sustainable green systems in a city landscape. Backpacking and Camping After spending time in the classroom at the College of Public Health, learning the art of hiking, camping and food preparation in the great outdoors, you and your classmates will spend weekend trips in nature, putting your studies into practice. Latin American Media Examine Latin American film, music and television to gain understanding of the influence it has had on U.S. popular culture. Held at the Klein College of Media and Communication, this is one of many unique media courses you can take. Tupac Shakur and the Hip Hop Revolution Housed at the College of Liberal Arts, this popular course examines Tupac’s legendary stardom as well as his influence on politics, poverty, race and more. Learn more about Charles Library. Charles Library Located at the heart of Main Campus, our new library is a feat of modern architecture and a hub for research and innovation. With 180,000 books in open shelving, flexible study spaces, maker spaces outfitted with 3D printers, a VR studio and more, Charles is a center for ideas and collaboration in the 21st century. Learn more about Charles Library. Links to Facilities page. Photo Gallery View slideshow as list Close 1/21 Architecture professor and student talk during class. 2/21 A group of Temple students are studying together. 3/21 A College of Science and Technology student works in a lab during physics class. 4/21 A student speaks over Zoom during an emotional intelligence class. 5/21 A virtual lesson is underway for a Temple student. 6/21 Klein College of Media and Communications students at work during a TV production class. 7/21 A College of Public Health student writes on a white board during an athletic training class. 8/21 Students are physically distanced during a keyboard class at the Boyer College of Music and Dance 9/21 A student and professor talk during class. 10/21 A Klein College of Media and Communications student plays drums during studio music class. 11/21 A College of Science and Technology student writes on a white board during physics class. 12/21 College of Engineering students meet over Zoom. 13/21 College of Public Health students talk during class. 14/21 A student works at a sewing machine during class. 15/21 A Fox School of Business professor and student in conversation. 16/21 A student examines the 3D needles exhibit at the Charles Library. 17/21 Students collaborate during a meeting of Diamond Edge Communications, Temple’s student-run advertising agency. 18/21 A Klein student works in the studio during a class. 19/21 A student wears a virtual reality headset during a lab. 20/21 Students talk during a class at Temple. 21/21 A Klein student listens to a lecture during an advertising class. Architecture professor and student talk during class. A group of Temple students are studying together. A College of Science and Technology student works in a lab during physics class. A student speaks over Zoom during an emotional intelligence class. A virtual lesson is underway for a Temple student. Klein College of Media and Communications students at work during a TV production class. A College of Public Health student writes on a white board during an athletic training class. Students are physically distanced during a keyboard class at the Boyer College of Music and Dance A student and professor talk during class. A Klein College of Media and Communications student plays drums during studio music class. A College of Science and Technology student writes on a white board during physics class. College of Engineering students meet over Zoom. College of Public Health students talk during class. A student works at a sewing machine during class. A Fox School of Business professor and student in conversation. A student examines the 3D needles exhibit at the Charles Library. Students collaborate during a meeting of Diamond Edge Communications, Temple’s student-run advertising agency. A Klein student works in the studio during a class. A student wears a virtual reality headset during a lab. Students talk during a class at Temple. A Klein student listens to a lecture during an advertising class. Go Back HomeMore in Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Research & Learning Spaces Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Pre-College Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info