Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Admitted Student Events Congratulations on being admitted as a Beaver! We are with you every step of the way as you learn about what your next steps are in the process to joining us as a student on campus. There will continue to be opportunities for you to connect with students, staff, and faculty here at Oregon State. We look forward to meeting you! Welcome to OSU "We all have a story...." Watch this piece to see all that can be your story at OSU. Orange & Black Days Orange & Black Days are our spring programs for admitted first-year and transfer students and their guests. Whether you are a senior in high school or a transfer student, we have sessions and information created especially for you. These programs typically occur in February, March, and April. Visit this spring Destination Beaver Nation Join members of the OSU community as we host events across California, Colorado, Hawai’i, and Washington. Get the answers to your questions about attending Oregon State University. There will also be discussions about the next steps about scholarships & financial aid, housing options, and orientation programs. Destination Beaver Nation (more 2022 dates coming soon!) Visits and Events Visits and Events Main Page In-Person Daily Tours In-Person Vaccination Requirements Virtual Oregon State: Live Events Virtual Oregon State: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Orange and Black Days OSU Nights Counselor Huddles About Corvallis OSU Events Calendar Virtual Tour Options Virtual Tour promo-guidebook-01.jpg Social Media Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram