Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Student Groups & Activities Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Dartmouth offers such an abundance of events and activities that a common complaint is an insufficient time to enjoy them all. The Outdoor Programs Office (OPO) helps create opportunities for members of the Dartmouth community to explore and enjoy the amazing natural landscape of New England throughout their time at Dartmouth and beyond. Within OPO, the Dartmouth Outing Club is the oldest and largest collegiate outing club in the country. Anyone—member or not—may stay at their cabins, go on trips, rent gear, and take classes, and funding and grants are available. Performers and observers alike enjoy Dartmouth's vibrant art scene. Numerous a capella, dance, and orchestral ensembles serenade the student population and the local community on a weekly basis, and theatrical productions—some directed and produced by professionals, many entirely by students—are a highlight of many students' terms. The Hop, short for the Hopkins Center for the Arts, features student instrumental, vocal and dance ensembles, premier visiting performers, films, and free-to-students Metropolitan Opera screenings, while the student coffee shop and lounge One Wheelock offers a weekly open mic night and two Indie music series, Coffeehouse Concerts and Friday Night Rock. Fancy a funny spell? Two student improv comedy groups and regular open-mic stand-up comedy keep the student population laughing. Dartmouth is also a place for creators: The Hop houses workshops in jewelry, ceramics, and woodworking, where students can attend workshops or be personally guided by expert staff in the project of their choice. Magnuson Center for Entrepreneurship connects and guides students inspired to create their own business, and DALI Lab, an experiential team-based working environment that simulates the start-up atmosphere, designs and develops technology tools to help real-world clients. It also hosts "The Pitch," a termly competition modeled on Shark Tank in which teams from across campus compete to gain funding to put their idea into action. Whether you wish to pursue a longtime passion or discover a new one, connect with others or explore potential career options, Dartmouth offers myriad clubs and events to explore. Organizations like Sustainable Dartmouth, Coalition for Global Health, Dartmouth Student Consulting Group, Dartmouth Finance Society, Society of Women Engineers, and Society for Black Engineers provide a forum for advice and experimentation in several of Dartmouth's most popular career choices, while numerous newspapers and literary magazines support students interested in writing. Numerous activist and affiliation groups like Divest Dartmouth, Improve Dartmouth, LALACS (Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies) and Dartmouth South Asian Student Association build communities of like-minded people to navigate and change both campus and the world beyond it. Learn more about student groups and activities. If walking to class isn't enough stretch to your legs for one day, Dartmouth offers a plethora of sports and athletic activities at the varsity, club, and intramural levels, as well as state-of-the-art gym facilities, a bouldering gym, and miles and miles of roads and trails to walk and run. Read more about athletics at Dartmouth. Dartmouth In Video Play Button PRIDE 2020 Dartmouth Pride started about seven years ago, when students in the LGBTQIA+ community decided they wanted visibility for themselves. This year, Pride organizers and other members of the LGBTQIA+ community took some time to talk about the history of the celebration at Dartmouth and its significance today. BACK PRIDE 2020 Dartmouth Pride started about seven years ago, when students in the LGBTQIA+ community decided they wanted visibility for themselves. This year, Pride organizers and other members of the LGBTQIA+ community took some time to talk about the history of the celebration at Dartmouth and its significance today. Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Video of Pride 2021 V.2 https://www.youtube.com/embed/uoxk6Jojlxk?wmode=opaque&controls=&origin=http://admissions.dartmouth.edu&autoplay=1&mute=0 Play Button 2020 Winter Carnival Highlights The 110th Winter Carnival, which opened Feb. 7, 2020, featured one of the tallest and longest snow sculptures in recent years—a sea monster rising from a snowy Green. BACK 2020 Winter Carnival Highlights The 110th Winter Carnival, which opened Feb. 7, 2020, featured one of the tallest and longest snow sculptures in recent years—a sea monster rising from a snowy Green. Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Video of 2020 Winter Carnival Highlights https://www.youtube.com/embed/FROb7xnG96c?wmode=opaque&controls=&origin=http://admissions.dartmouth.edu&autoplay=1&mute=0 Play Button The Sweetest Students on Campus Nothing says New England like spending a crisp spring morning tapping maple trees and boiling syrup. And that’s exactly how students on Dartmouth Sustainability’s sugar crew spent their spring break. BACK The Sweetest Students on Campus Nothing says New England like spending a crisp spring morning tapping maple trees and boiling syrup. And that’s exactly how students on Dartmouth Sustainability’s sugar crew spent their spring break. Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Video of The Sweetest Students on Campus https://www.youtube.com/embed/V6xn1cvZ_j8?wmode=opaque&controls=&origin=http://admissions.dartmouth.edu&autoplay=1&mute=0 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Big Green News Feed All News Stories Debate Team Wins Second Consecutive National Championship Lyricist Wins Kleban Prize for Musical Theatre Mock Trial Society Advances in National Tournament Students say team-building efforts have paid off, both in and out of the courtroom. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog Dartmouth is full of quirks and traditions that make us… unique. A "sunrike" is one of them; come on the journey with me! Read More Journey through a Dartmouth "Sunrike" Gavin Fry 2025 Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback