Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Frequently Asked Questions You are here Home Apply International Students Frequently Asked Questions About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Below are answers to questions that international students frequently ask before, during and after applying to Temple. Contact Us We’re always here to help with the admissions process. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us by calling 215-204-4900 or emailing tuadmint@temple.edu. Prospective International Students Who is considered an international student at Temple University? Apply as an international student if you are not a U.S. citizen or a permanent resident of the United States. How do I schedule a tour of Temple University? You can explore Temple from anywhere. Our virtual tour gives you a chance to navigate around Main Campus and learn more about residence halls, dining halls and recreation spaces. You can also participate in one of our weekday information sessions, live webinars through which you’ll learn important information about the admissions process from an undergraduate admissions counselor and current student. What majors and programs of studies are offered at Temple University? Explore majors at Temple. How can I request additional information about Temple University and materials focused on international students? You can request free informational materials about Temple University online. Are there jobs available to international students on campus? Part-time student jobs can be found through Temple's Human Resources site. International student workers may work up to 20 hours per week during the academic semester. Explore additional employment opportunities available to international students. Is housing available for international students? Temple University offers on-campus housing accommodations to newly admitted students. The deadline for submitting your on-campus housing deposit is May 1. View a full listing and University Housing guide. For students interested in living with peers from other cultures, Temple’s Global Living Learning Community offers options for both first-year and returning students. Can I review more information about Temple in my own language? Yes, Temple provides resources and information about the university in some languages. See what languages are offered. Application Process How do I apply? The easiest way to apply to Temple University is to use the Common Application. Ensure that you include all required documents when submitting your application. Send completed applications and materials to the following address. International Admissions 714 Carnell Hall 1803 N. Broad St. Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA What is the minimum TOEFL iBT or IELTS score I need to be admitted? The minimum test scores for direct admission into Temple University are* TOEFL iBT: 79; IELTS: 6.0; and PTE: 53. The minimum test scores for conditional admission into Temple University are TOEFL iBT : 65-78; IELTS: 5.5; and PTE: 46-52. *NOTE: Certain majors, including those in the Fox School of Business, will require a higher level of proficiency. TOEFL: 84 IELTS: 6.5 PTE: 56 Applicants who submit test scores below the minimums listed above or who submit no test scores at all will receive Provisional Admission if they are academically qualified. Can my credentials be returned to me after I submit them to Temple? Temple retains all credentials submitted to the university and cannot return original documents. If you prefer to retain your official documents, you may submit notarized copies of your originals. I'm experiencing technical problems with TUportal. What should I do? Temple University's Information Technology Services department is available to assist all students with any technical problems they might encounter with TUportal. Students can submit a Help Desk ticket online by visiting the TUhelp website or calling 215-204-8000. Walk-ins are welcome to go to the Help Desk office, which is located in the TECH Center in Room 106. Can I defer my offer of admission to Temple University? Admitted students who have deposited can seek to defer their admission for up to one year for reasons that do not include the completion of college-level credits elsewhere. Typically, students may defer admission to complete religious, volunteer or military service or for unplanned medical circumstances. Admitted students will not be approved to defer their enrollment to attend another college or university or apply to another college or university while holding their space at Temple University. Students interested in deferral must complete our brief deferred enrollment request form via TUportal and provide a final high school or college transcript. Does Temple University accept the Common Application? Temple University does accept the Common Application. When will I find out if I am accepted to Temple? Once you have submitted all the materials necessary for your application, please allow anywhere from two to six weeks to receive an admission decision. You can check the status of your application by logging into the TUportal website. What if I do not meet the English language requirement? Pathway Programs are available for talented students who meet the academic requirements for admission but need to improve their English language skills. Can I be considered for admission into Temple University without a TOEFL iBT or IELTS score? Academically qualified students who submit no language test scores will receive provisional admission to Temple University and will be placed in the Intensive English Language Program. Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid How can I apply for scholarships or financial aid? Temple University offers both merit-based scholarships and two #YouAreWelcomeHere scholarships for international students. Merit-based scholarships range from $1,000 to full tuition and do not require a separate scholarship application. If you are selected for a scholarship, you will be notified at the time of acceptance. Merit scholarships are awarded to international students with strong academic records and standardized test scores. #YouAreWelcomeHere scholarships are annual, renewable scholarships of $20,000 awarded to two first-year international students with a vision for enhancing intercultural understanding. A separate scholarship application is needed in addition to the admissions application. Learn more information about these scholarships. In most cases, need-based aid is not available to international students. Please refer to Student Financial Services for more information. Where can I find out information about tuition at Temple University? Information about Temple University tuition, billing, payments and loan services is available online or by calling 215-204-7269. You can also visit the Bursar’s Office Monday through Friday, from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Bursar’s Office is located at 115 Carnell Hall 1803 N. Broad St. Philadelphia, PA 19122 How much money does my sponsor need to show in order to receive an I-20 form? In order to receive an I-20 form, your sponsor will need to verify approximately $35,000. Learn more about financial documentation. Do I need to submit financial documents with my application? It is not necessary, but it is a good idea to submit financial documents with your application so we can produce your I-20 as quickly as possible. The necessary financial documents can be submitted through TUportal. How do I pay my deposit? Is there a deadline? You can pay the deposit using TUpay, which is available under the Welcome tab in TUportal. The deposit deadline for fall first-year applicants is May 1, and the deposit deadline for spring applicants is two weeks after admission. Visas and Other International Student Information Where can I get more information about student visas? For updates and more information about student visas, please visit the International Student and Scholar Services website. I am a dual citizen. Should I note both countries on my application? Students should disclose all countries where they hold citizenship or residency ties. Citizenship has no impact on the chance of admission. It is, however, important to provide full disclosure because the university tracks this information for records purposes, and citizenship or residency status may impact the type of financial aid a student may be able to receive. How can I apply for a Form I-20? Applications for Forms I-20 are submitted online. How long does it take to receive a Form I-20? Once you have paid your deposit and submitted the required documents, an I-20 will be mailed to you. Allow up to two weeks for delivery from the time we receive the required documents for mailing. How do I transfer an I-20 to Temple University from another U.S. institution? If you are currently studying in the U.S. with nonimmigrant student status, ask your current school to transfer your SEVIS record to Temple. Note that SEVIS records cannot be transferred to Temple until you have been officially accepted into the university. Learn more about transferring to Temple from another U.S.-based institution. What is the SEVIS fee? SEVIS (Student and Exchange Visitor Information System) is a result of the 1996 Immigration Act, which mandated that a fee should be charged to all new F-1 and J-1 visa holders in order to fund the federal student and scholar database. Do I need to submit an immunization record? There are only two mandatory student health requirements for certain groups of students. If you will be living in the residence halls, you are required to have the meningitis vaccine. The vaccine can be declined, but you will have to complete an online certification form. The second mandatory requirement is for students who are citizens of countries with a high rate of tuberculosis, including China. These students are required to be screened for tuberculosis. Students who are required to have the tuberculosis screening will receive information in early September, and that testing must be done by Student Health Services. We do recommend other immunizations, but they are not required. Do I need health insurance? For your safety, Temple University requires all international students with nonimmigrant student (F-1 or J-1) status to maintain health insurance that meets the minimum standard as determined by the U.S. Department of State. In addition, the U.S. Department of State requires that all individuals in Exchange Visitor (J-1) status also meet the minimum insurance requirement. Requirements and forms are available online. How early can I enter the U.S. before school starts? The U.S. government allows international students to enter the country as early as 30 days before the program start date indicated on your I-20/DS 2019. Can I arrange an airport pickup when I arrive in Philadelphia? We will provide transportation from Philadelphia International Airport (PHL) to Temple University between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. on a designated date each semester. I have a complicated immigration issue. Who should I contact? Temple University’s International Student and Scholars Services (ISSS) is the best place to get help with complicated immigration issues. For additional information about immigration services in the United States, visit the U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services website. How do I apply for a student visa? The best way to apply for your student visa is to contact a U.S. embassy or consulate in your home country. If you have additional questions, just ask us and we’ll find an answer for you. What is the deadline to apply for a student visa? Temple University advises you to submit your application for an I-20 at the same time you submit your application for admission into Temple University. Once you submit your deposit and all required documents, an I-20 will be mailed to you. For those transferring an I-20 from another school, I-20s will be issued after your previous school releases your SEVIS record to Temple University. Is there an International student Orientation program? New Student Orientation is mandatory for all international students and is very beneficial for a successful transition into Temple University. Don’t forget to let us know when you will arrive by reserving your place for Orientation. Transfer Student Requirements As a transfer student, do I need to evaluate my transcripts with an evaluation agency, like World Education Services or AACRAO (American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers)? Temple University does not require your transcripts to be reviewed by an evaluation institution. You are more than welcome to submit evaluations, but it is still necessary to submit the original transcripts. Temple University performs its own evaluations. As a transfer student, am I required to submit course descriptions? In most cases, Temple University will not require you to submit course descriptions during the application process; however, they are helpful in determining the number of transfer credits that Temple University will accept. In some cases, if the transcript is unclear, an admissions counselor may contact you to request course descriptions and/or syllabi. How long does it take to receive a transfer credit evaluation? Transfer credit evaluations are completed after a student has been accepted; allow two to three weeks from the time you receive your admission decision. If you have a specific question or concern about your credits, tell us and we’ll put you in contact with a transfer counselor. Back to International Students Back to Apply Go back to ApplyMore in International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info