Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Tour Visit Apply × Close Menu Affordability at TU Apply Apply First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Graduate Applicants Law Applicants Other Students Credit By Exam Financial Aid Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Free Application for Federal Student Aid Visit Campus Visit Campus Academic Webinars Plan Your Individual Visit Preview TU Group Visits University Ambassadors Area Hotels Directions to Campus Maps Explore Tulsa Virtual Tour Special Programs Special Programs Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars Student Life Student Life International Student Services Housing & Dining Student Organizations Campus Recreation Career Services Health Center Student Accessibility New Student Programs Office of Student Affairs Find Your Admission Counselor Request Information Quick Links News Events Calendar Maps Athletics Contact TU Information For... Future Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Veteran Students Undergraduate Students International Students Graduate Students Law Students Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How do I interview for admission? Where is the new student checklist? How do I schedule a visit? What majors are offered? How much does TU cost? How can I transfer to TU? Close Search Link to site home page Office of Admission > Apply > First Year Applicants First Year Applicants APPLY First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Graduate Students Law Students Other Students Application Process OPTION 1: Complete The University of Tulsa Online Application OPTION 2: Complete and submit The Common Application Application Requirements Application for admission Official high school transcript – If you have a GED, you must submit an official record of your scores (not the diploma) and a final high school transcript from the last date attended. SAT or ACT results (the writing component is not required); (SAT code: 6883; ACT code: 3444). Scores listed on an official high school transcript and unofficial scores in the form of a student report are accepted provided the student’s name, date of the test and all section scores are visible. The Office of Admission reserves the right to validate SAT and ACT results by requesting an official score report from the testing agency. Superscore will be used for admission and scholarship decisions. TU will accept scores from both the current SAT and the redesigned SAT. The University of Tulsa is extending the standardized test score requirement suspension to students applying for Spring 2023 and Fall 2023 freshman admission. Students wishing to submit a score are welcome to do so. The University of Tulsa will continue to take a holistic approach when reviewing applicants for admission and evaluate all application materials including grade point average, test score if available, high school curriculum and rigor, potential for leadership, and involvement within the high school and community to determine if a candidate is the right fit for TU. A School Report Form and/or a counselor recommendation are recommended, but not required. Materials can be mailed to The University of Tulsa Office of Admission, 800 South Tucker Drive, Tulsa, OK 74104 A Talk with Tulsa appointment with an admission counselor is strongly suggested, but not required. Home school students should refer to the Home School Checklist for additional requirements. Students who are Permanent Residents with green cards must have their status documented. Please submit a scanned copy of both sides of your Permanent Resident “green card” to apply@utulsa.edu. Students who are 21 years of age or older are not required to submit an ACT or SAT score. However, the admission committee reserves the right to request additional testing if deemed necessary to the review process. Application Deadlines Rolling Admission: Applications are reviewed as they are received. The preferred date to submit an application for rolling admission is prior to January 15. Academic Scholarships: Best consideration for scholarships is given to students who complete the application process by January 15. An additional scholarship application is not required. After that date, applicants will be considered for scholarships based on the availability of funding. National Candidate’s Reply Date: Admitted students should notify the schools to which they have been accepted of their college decision by May 1. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT