Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Dining Options First- and second-year students at Princeton live and eat their meals in the residential colleges. The majority of Princeton juniors and seniors choose to join an eating club, but many others who prefer a different style of dining and social life make other arrangements. Four-Year Residential Colleges Students have the option to live in a residential college during their entire time at Princeton. Juniors and seniors who do so may take all of their meals in the college dining hall or, if they join an eating club, may choose a shared meal plan. All juniors and seniors can stay connected to their college. Whether or not they purchase a University meal plan, they are given two extra meals per week to be used in a residential college dining hall. Cafés Cafés serving a wide variety of foods — sandwiches, home-style food, pizza, ethnic cuisines and more — are located throughout campus. Their hours are flexible, some opening at 7 a.m. and closing at 2 a.m. Kosher Dining The Center for Jewish Life offers kosher meals for the entire campus community. In addition to the Center for Jewish Life dining operation, students have the option to have a kosher meal in the residential colleges prepared and transported by the Center for Jewish Life staff. The Center for Jewish Life dining operation is under the supervision of OU (Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, Kashruth Division). Halal Dining All residential college dining halls offer halal dining options for students. Certified halal meat is prepared on site in the kitchens of the residential college dining halls. The meat is cooked separately on dedicated grills in keeping with Muslim dietary laws, and a description of the preparation is posted at each grill station. In addition, there is a weekly halal meal offered at the Frist Campus Center. Student Food Cooperatives Four co-ops, including a vegetarian and international option, operate on campus and provide their members kitchen access and a common food supply. These student groups cook and eat dinners together, sharing chores like cleaning, shopping, baking and even gardening. Since each co-op has several dozen members, each student is only required to cook one night a week. And because they buy in bulk, co-ops are often less expensive than cooking independently. All students are welcome, regardless of cooking experience. Independent Dining Some students organize their own dining arrangements and cook on their own or eat in campus dining places, such as the Frist Campus Center, and local restaurants, which offer a great variety of cuisines in all price ranges. Many students who are “independents” live in Spelman Hall, which has four-person suites with kitchen facilities. Undergraduate Blog Where Do You Eat? By Grace Masback Learn More Full content of /blogs/where-do-you-eat Undergraduate Blog Your Complete Guide to the Residential College Dining Halls By Mia Salas Learn More Full content of /blogs/your-complete-guide-residential-college-dining-halls Dining Center for Jewish Life Kosher Dining Options Explore Full content of http://hillel.princeton.edu/kosher-dining Princeton Campus Dining: Nourishing People and the Planet Play Video: Princeton Campus Dining: Nourishing People and the Planet Video of Princeton Campus Dining nourishes people and planet Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746