Skip to main content Search for: Ex: How do I apply to Providence College? Menu Apply Visit Give Coronavirus Information & Updates Parents & Families Alumni Media MY-PC Events Admission Home Explore Apply Tuition & Aid Class of 2026 Visit En Español Contact Request Info Close menu Visit Visit Providence College There are many ways to visit Providence College in person or virtually. Whether you’re just stopping by campus for a couple of hours or staying in Rhode Island, we’re excited to meet you. Visit us in person. There’s no better way to get to know a college than to step onto campus, meet the community, and see yourself there. In-person visit and interview opportunities are available almost daily. Register for Info Sessions And Tours Register for an Admission Interview On-Campus Events and Programs Admitted Student Programming A mix of in-person and virtual events aimed at those admitted to the Providence College Class of 2026 is available within the Admission Status Portal. Preview Providence July 25 Intended for those applying in the future, this program is a great introduction to Providence College and the academic experience. It also provides guidance on the college search process. More than an information session, but less than an open house. Fall Open House October 15 Details and Registration Available Late Summer 2022! Group Visit Programs for Schools and Community-Based Organizations Virtual Experiences Virtual Campus Tour Virtual Residence Hall Tour Chat with Students and Faculty Virtual Interviews Virtual Information Sessions Webinars Visiting the Ocean State Providence, Rhode Island is the Creative Capital, one of the Northeast’s most vibrant cities, and home to some of the nation’s best restaurants. Learn More About Providence, R.I. Culture and commerce. Food and fashion. History and hospitality. Providence, Rhode Island offers it all. Conveniently situated 50 miles from Boston and three hours from New York City by car, Providence is serviced by Rhode Island TF Green International Airport, Amtrak, and several coach bus lines. There’s plenty to enjoy when you visit Providence College. Stay a while — you won’t regret it. Book Your Stay 1 Cunningham Square Providence, RI 02918 USA Tel: +1.401.865.1000 Contact PC Support PC Emergency Information Student Consumer Information Academics Majors, Minors, Programs Academic Calendar Library People & Places Offices & Services Directory People Directory Maps & Directions Visit Facts & Info Fast Facts Jobs Mass Schedule Annual Security Report Title IX & Sexual Harassment Copyright ©2022. Providence College Terms of Use | Privacy Policy If you are having trouble viewing or accessing these web pages, please email our Web Accessibility Coordinator Page maintained by: PC Web Services | About This Site