Skip to content Apply Visit Info Give open searchsubmit Menu openAbout SDSU History & Mission Leadership Strategic Plan Diversity Land Acknowledgement Contact Us openNews & Events All News Calendar Social Media openAcademics Programs Academic Support Academic Calendars Study Abroad SDSU Imperial Valley SDSU Global Campus SDSU Library Canvas openAdmissions & Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans & Service Members Parents & Families Counselors Cost of Attendance Financial Aid & Scholarships openLife at SDSU Housing Dining Student Union Clubs & Organizations Performance Groups Aztec Recreation Center Health & Well-being Support & Services Athletics openResearch & Innovation Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Student Research Entrepreneurship Sustainability Research Foundation Information for Researchers Alumni Give openI am a Future Student Current Student Newly Admitted Student Parent/Guardian Counselor Faculty / Staff Member openColleges Arts and Letters Fowler College of Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Services SDSU Library Professional Studies and Fine Arts Sciences Weber Honors College openOther Locations SDSU Georgia SDSU Global Campus SDSU Imperial Valley SDSU Mission Valley Apply Visit Info Give youtube twitter facebook instagram In this Section Admissions Parents & Families Prospective Parent/Guardian Form Your Admitted Student Cost of Attendance Tours and Events Contact Admissions Parents & Families Discover why SDSU is the right fit. Congratulations on reaching this next chapter in your life. We understand how important this decision is as your student is about to embark on one of the most exciting times of their life. At San Diego State University, we provide the opportunities, you and your student choose how to take advantage of them, and we support you along the way. Facts & Figuresopen 65 among public universities If your student is driven by the thrill of discovery, then your student can prepare to conduct research along history-makers at SDSU. Even as an undergraduate, your student can be a part of research teams that are making a difference. Research & Innovationopen $144.4 million in significant research funding in fiscal 2019-20 Our campus fosters shared experiences, values, and aspirations that embrace our unique identities, respect our diversity, and recognize our common humanity. Diversityopen Top 35 nationwide for ethnic diversity Prepare your student for the world. At San Diego State University, we are committed to creating educational opportunities that contribute to intellectual development and equip your student to succeed in a global society. The Aztec Mentor Program (AMP) engages alumni and professional mentors to connect with juniors, seniors and graduate students to support them as they move from campus to career. Career Mentoringopen 10,500 students connect with professionals each year. SDSU Career Services helps students find high-quality learning experiences that integrate academic knowledge and professional experience in a work environment. Internshipsopen 8,500 students annually take advantage of internships. According to U.S. News and World Report. SDSU's entrepreneurs are building connections, making discoveries, launching companies and winning competitions. Entrepreneurshipopen No. 14 in entrepreneurship among public universities. Feel the warmth of SDSU beyond the sun. We welcome you with open arms and we are here to support you and your family. New Student and Parent Programs Health & Well-Being Residential Programs and Services Special Programs and ServicesDiscover How We Value Aztec Parents Invest in your student's future. Measured by a combination of academic excellence, affordability and career prospects, SDSU was identified on the Princeton Review's "Best Value Colleges" list. Learn just how affordable this is for you. Learn More About Cost of Attendance Financial Aid & Scholarships Prepare for the application process. As your student prepares to apply to SDSU, define a game plan for the deadlines. Use these resources to plan accordingly. 6th-12th Grade Preparation Admissions Information Dates & Deadlines Oct 01 Fall 2022 Application Opens Oct 01 Apply for Financial Aid by Filing the FAFSA (apply as soon after Oct. 1 as possible) Dec 15 Deadline to Apply for Fall 2022 Admission Stay connected with us. If you are a parent or guardian of a student that applied, the Office of Admissions will communicate information to parents or guardians using the email addresses provided on Cal State Apply if your student granted permission. Parent or guardian email addresses are not updated after the application is submitted. If you are a parent or guardian of a student that has not applied, please complete the Prospective Parent/Guardian Interest Form listed below. Prospective Parent/Guardian Interest Form Prospective Student Interest Form Visit SDSU We offer a variety of in-person and virtual events for prospective and admitted students and their families. Tours & Virtual Visits Preview Day Explore SDSU Open House Out-of-State Events Welcome to SDSU Contact AdmissionsVisitRequest Info youtube twitter facebook instagram 619-594-5200 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 Maps Parking Campus Directory Employment Media Relations Canvas General Contact Network Status Strategic Plan Newsletter Accessibility Document Readers Digital Privacy Statement Campus Safety Reports Feedback © 2022 San Diego State UniversityAll Rights ReservedLast Updated back to top Last Updated 11/30/21