Skip to main content Toggle navigation UNM A-Z myUNM Directory The University of New Mexico UNM A-Z myUNM Directory Help StudentInfo FastInfo Office of Admissions Home Future Students Future Students Freshmen Admissions Process Admission Requirements Gateway Program Home School Transfer Transfer Transfer Equivalencies LOBO Trax Audit CNM/UNM Humanities Program Graduate International Students Dual Credit Non-Degree Branch Transition Readmission Returning Home School Service Members & Veterans Academics Academics Testing College Level Examination Program International Baccalaureate AP/IB/CLEP Undergraduate programs Costs & Financial Aid Parents and Family Forms Connect With Us Connect With Us UNM Coming Your Way Request Information Visit Us Visit Us Campus Events Student & Family Tours Self-Guided Tour School Groups Virtual Tours and Visits Student Life Admitted Students   Have questions about Admissions to UNM? Schedule a virtual appointment to talk! A WORLD-CLASS UNIVERSITY. RIGHT HERE IN NEW MEXICO. What does it mean to be a “World-Class University”? Being ranked in the top 2% of all global universities ( Center for World University Rankings). Being ranked #16 in the nation for ethnic diversity (U.S. News and World Report). Being one of just 137 Research I Universities-- and the only one in New Mexico--classified as the highest level of research activity. That's out of about 3,400 universities in the nation. Being ranked among the top 100 Research and Development-Performing Institutions in the U.S. with expenditures of nearly $240 million dollars annually ( National Science Board). More than $71 million in scholarships for NM residents and non-residents. The only four-year university in the state with a first-year promise to cover tuition and fees for those NM residents with the greatest financial need. It's The Lobo First-Year Promise. UNM is defined by YOUR success. With over 200 academic programs, there are so many opportunities for you to Define Your Future at the University of New Mexico. UNM Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Apply Now! Visit Us Request Info Freshman Transfer Graduate International Do you know what interests you but aren't sure which degrees match your passion? UNM awards $71 million in scholarships every year. 74.2% of UNM student receive financial aid. Contact our admissions representatives to answer your questions and assist you through the admissions process. Greater access to quality higher education means brighter futures and better opportunities. After all the hard work, the long nights and late hours. The searching, the finding, the crafting and creating. Every step leading you toward this – a new State of Mind. There are 7 downhill ski areas within a few hours of the UNM campus and the iconic Taos Ski Valley is only one of them! Every skier has their favorite. Great 4-season recreation makes UNM a destination for reasons beyond just world-class academics. Welcome to The University of New Mexico, where we’re counting down our top 5 campus glow ups! UNM is one of only a few top research universities to offer all three ROTC programs and provides an alternative to the service academies. UNM ROTC graduates commission at the same rank as students graduating from West Point, or the Air Force and Naval Academies. Scholarships are available. Lameck Lukanga MBA '09, BBA '08 | Founder, Life Line Financial Group The impact you have in the world is not measured by power, prestige or money, but the number of lives that were better because you lived,” he said. Perhaps not what anyone expected to hear from the founder of one of the top financial management firms in the country. No, these were the words of a Lobo. One who escaped unspeakable conditions in his home country of Uganda, came here, and found support, a new home and true success. Nate Gutierrez Junior | BA Media Arts He’s been using the latest visual arts technology in our ARTS Lab, and working with teams in our Fabrication Lab, to help create dynamic projection displays in and around town. He’s just starting out, but he already knows his stuff. Which is why the City of Albuquerque sent him with a team to SXSW this year to help showcase the city’s entrepreneurial spirit. Laura Boykin Ph.D. '03 | Computational Biologist She uses supercomputers to study the diversity, development and gene structures of organisms. Like the whitefly. A devastating pest that’s been destroying critical cassava crops in East Africa. By creating the world’s first database of whitefly genetic information, she’s helping other researchers find a way to eradicate this pest and restore food security to over seven million people in the region. Schools & University Campus Jobs Career Tools Graduate School COMING HERE ISN'T JUST ABOUT BEING HERE. The Lobo Life is where the classroom ends and the “Land of Enchantment” begins. From mountains to concert halls, The Lobo Life is all of the experiences that make being a student at UNM magic.See more at lobolife.unm.edu ... ... IT’S OUR DIFFERENCES THAT UNITE US We created UNM Proud for you, the Lobo Nation, to tell us why you’re proud to be part of the UNM Pack, and to inspire the next generation of Lobos.See more at unmproud.unm.edu Office of Admissions Contacts Mailing Address: PO Box 4895 Albuquerque, NM 87196-4895 Phone:505.277.8900 Physical Location: Student Support and Service Center 1155 University Blvd, SE Albuquerque, NM 87131 General information & questions: unmlobos@unm.edu Send Transcripts & Records: apply@unm.edu Academics Academic Calendars Academic Advising Class Schedule Colleges & Schools Course Catalog Degrees & Certificates Graduate Studies Campus Life Arts & Entertainment Athletics Campus Housing Diversity Recreational Services Student Activities Student Union Resources Bookstore Campus Map Campus Safety Computing Libraries Parents & Families Residency Information Programs Aim To Achieve Early Start Program Gateway Programs National Student Exchange New Student Orientation Study Abroad APPLY Now Visit UNM Request Info © The University of New Mexico Albuquerque, NM 87131, (505) 277-0111 New Mexico's Flagship University UNM on Facebook UNM on Instagram UNM on Twitter UNM on YouTube more at social.unm.edu Accessibility Legal Contact UNM Consumer Information New Mexico Higher Education Dashboard