Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Tour Visit Apply × Close Menu Affordability at TU Apply Apply First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Graduate Applicants Law Applicants Other Students Credit By Exam Financial Aid Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Free Application for Federal Student Aid Visit Campus Visit Campus Academic Webinars Plan Your Individual Visit Preview TU Group Visits University Ambassadors Area Hotels Directions to Campus Maps Explore Tulsa Virtual Tour Special Programs Special Programs Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars Student Life Student Life International Student Services Housing & Dining Student Organizations Campus Recreation Career Services Health Center Student Accessibility New Student Programs Office of Student Affairs Find Your Admission Counselor Request Information Quick Links News Events Calendar Maps Athletics Contact TU Information For... Future Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Veteran Students Undergraduate Students International Students Graduate Students Law Students Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How do I interview for admission? Where is the new student checklist? How do I schedule a visit? What majors are offered? How much does TU cost? How can I transfer to TU? Close Search Link to site home page Office of Admission > TU Special Programs > Early Careers In Community Medicine Early Careers In Community Medicine SPECIAL PROGRAMS Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars APPLY NOW The Early Careers in Community Medicine (ECCM) program provides highly qualified undergraduate students at The University of Tulsa with a unique opportunity to pursue an early provisional acceptance into the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine program, leading to an M.D. degree. Students may apply for the ECCM program as early as their senior year in high school. Only five freshmen may enter this prestigious program each year. To be eligible for the ECCM program, students must meet the application requirements. Finalists for the ECCM program will be interviewed by representatives from both TU and OU. ECCM students must enroll in both a major and a minor concentration program. Students may select any major and any minor at TU. ECCM students must meet or exceed the MCAT and GPA score of the previous year’s entering medical school class in order to be granted provisional acceptance without an interview. Students who do not meet that standard may still be considered through the traditional admission path as delineated by OU College of Medicine. In order to be admitted to OU College of Medicine, provisionally accepted applicants must meet all academic and professional requirements and standards as defined by the OU-COM policy. They also must submit a completed application through the American Medical College Application Service and meet all deadlines prior to matriculation. Provisionally accepted applicants may matriculate through the Oklahoma City or Tulsa track. For more information on this transformative program, please contact Jeffrey Alderman, Associate Professor of Community Medicine at jeffrey-alderman@utulsa.edu. Benefits of provisional acceptance to OU College of Medicine Access to scholarships from an endowed scholarship fund for students who are accepted to the Tulsa School of Community Medicine track has been made possible through the generosity of the William K. Warren Foundation and Saint Francis Health System. Interview process for medical school complete upon acceptance into the program if academic standards are met upon graduation from TU. Undergraduate participation alongside medical students in the OU School of Community Medicine Summer Institute, which provides students and faculty an in-depth look at the health needs of the Tulsa area. 1:1 advising by TU and OU faculty Participation in a pre-med undergraduate honors program For more information on this transformative program, please contact Jeffrey Alderman, MD, MS, Associate Dean for Medical Education at jeffrey-alderman@utulsa.edu. Eligibility Requirements To be considered for the ECCM program, applicants must meet one or more of the following eligibility requirements. Only U.S. citizens and permanent residents may apply. National Merit Semifinalists who list The University of Tulsa as School of Choice with National Merit Scholarship Corporation National Hispanic Scholars who rank in the top 10% of their graduating class Students who either Rank in the top 5% of their graduating class OR Have at least a 4.0 weighted grade point average In addition to meeting one of the above requirements, students must submit an ACT or SAT. While there is no specific minimum score required, we are typically looking for students who score in the top 5% on either test. Application Requirements Submit a completed University of Tulsa application by January 15. Submit a completed Special Programs Application for the Early Careers in Community Medicine by January 15. Submit a letter of recommendation from a community member or educator who is familiar with the student’s commitment to service and learning by January 15. Letters of recommendation should be emailed to apply@utulsa.eduwith the subject line ECCM Letter of Recommendation and include the student’s name. The top 15-20 applicants will be selected to interview on February 21, 2022. Selections for program will be made by early April 2022. Medical School Pre-requisites Science and Math BIOL 1603/1611 BIOL 1703/1711 BIOL 2124/2120 CHEM 1013/1011 CHEM 1023/2021 CHEM 3013/3011 CHEM 3023/3021 PHYS 1013/1011 OR PHYS 2053/2051 (the latter requires Calculus I) PHYS 1023/1021 OR PHYS 2063/2061 (the latter requires Calculus II) MATH: Variable, from no requirement to MATH 2014 + MATH 2024 Humanities ENG 1033 and 3003 (or equivalents) Other: Variable, various social sciences highly recommended; science or math majors generally use BLOCK II courses to fulfill these pre-requisites (see below) Recommended Science and Math CHEM 4133 (needed for MCAT preparation) BIOL 3xxx or BIOL 4xxx (upper- division course in biological science) Humanities SOC 1033 (needed for MCAT preparation) PSY 2253 (needed for MCAT preparation) STAT 2013 (or equivalent; advisable for MCAT preparation) 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT