Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Research Opportunities You are here Home Academics Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Be a part of the next big discovery. At Temple, you’re part of a community always seeking solutions to make this world a better place. As an R1 research institution, our undergraduate students have many opportunities to participate in groundbreaking research and innovation. And, undergraduate research offers many benefits that can help you here at Temple, and wherever you end up after graduation. You’ll collaborate with peers on important initiatives, form meaningful and long-lasting mentorships with faculty members, and learn skills you can apply in the real world. Discover ways to get involved in undergraduate research and read about the cutting-edge research happening right now and every day at Temple. Contents Opportunities and ScholarshipsStudent Spotlights Research Opportunities and Scholarships Temple students have worked for the Philadelphia Eagles and at the Cannes Film Festival, studied Arabic in Oman, and built houses in Appalachia. They’ve presented at conferences, published in academic journals, and premiered music and dance in cities around the globe. Temple’s research and scholar programs are one more way we give students a real-world education and help them prepare for life after graduation. Learn more about some of our research opportunities and scholarships and see how to get involved. CARAS Program The Creative Arts, Research, and Scholarship (CARAS) Program provides additional support to students who participate in research or creative projects, allowing them to continue the work that could advance their respective fields. The fund is available to both undergraduate and professional students. Diamond Research Scholars Program The Diamond Research Scholars Program, a seven-month program, provides students with the opportunity to learn and conduct research alongside faculty mentors. Hear more about the program directly from our faculty mentors. MARC-USTAR Program Maximizing Access to Research Careers Undergraduate Student Training for Academic Research Program (MARC-USTAR) provides students with the background and experience needed to pursue graduate degrees in the biomedical sciences. Sponsored by the National Institutes of Health, this program is designed to support undergraduate students in underrepresented groups. College of Science and Technology Undergraduate Research Program The College of Science and Technology Undergraduate Research Program gives sophomores, juniors and seniors in the College of Science and Technology the opportunity to participate in research with experts in their field of study. Students could also have opportunities to author a paper or present at a conference. The program also provides the chance for students to earn credit and/or a stipend during the fall, spring and summer semesters. Science Scholars Program The Science Scholars Program provides incoming freshmen and sophomores the chance to take part in research and academic or professional development experiences over the summer. Qualifying students can receive up to $4,000 in summer funding to complete their research projects in three years within the College of Science and Technology, Temple University, or at another U.S. or overseas institution. Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation is a student-oriented program at Temple that develops extensive strategies to grow the number of underrepresented students who complete degrees and find success in STEM fields. This program is nationally recognized and funded by the National Science Foundation. Leading the Way Many students have embarked on a variety of research opportunities at Temple. Here, you can learn about a few of the experiences and discoveries made by our students. Morgan Rollings College of Engineering ’21 Bioengineering major Morgan Rollings ’21 received the Creative Arts, Research and Scholarship Program grant to start a new multidisciplinary student organization: Temple Prosthetics and Orthotics. The group works together to research, design and develop prosthetics for people—and puppies—in need. Read the full story. Tyler Doudrick ’20, Megha Patel ’21 and Alex Perez ’20 College of Science and Technology Three computer and information science students created software to increase efficiency for a North Philadelphia job preparedness program. Although only working and meeting in virtual spaces, these students were able to find groundbreaking results for a real-life client. Read the full story. Scott Blender College of Liberal Arts ’24 As a high school senior, Blender co-founded the Coronavirus Visualization Team (CVT), a crowdsourced effort by students across the globe participating in research and data visualization. Now, the Penn Valley native is using the resources available through Temple’s LaunchPad to move his company forward. Read the full story. Lauryn Edmondson Klein College of Media and Communication ’20 Lauryn Edmondson and four of her Klein classmates conducted research on historically undercounted groups and mobilized the Temple-area community as part of the national Bateman Competition, designed to encourage students and undercounted groups to participate in the 2020 Census. Read the full story. Paige Randazzo College of Liberal Arts ’17 During a winter break trip to northern Oman, Temple anthropology student Paige Randazzo was part of a group that uncovered skeletal remains of a child from a stone tomb atop a cliff on the Arabian Peninsula. Read the full story. https://research.temple.edu/ Research Initiatives Learn more about research initiatives at Temple. Research Initiatives Back to Main Academics Go back to AcademicsMore in Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info