Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site Advice on Choosing Where to Apply There are over 2000 four-year colleges in the United States, each with a unique constellation of resources, course offerings, and extracurricular programs. Schools differ in size, location, academic requirements, selectivity, etc. With so many choices, you will need time to explore what is out there and how the options match your interests and needs. Start your research early, and as you make a list of schools to consider, keep your mind open to ones about which you may not have heard much before. Students who focus only on a handful of the most selective or well-known colleges are missing out on the wonderful range of schools that exist and that might be a good fit for them. It’s also a good idea to discuss with your parents or guardians what is important to you and what you hope to get out of college, so you will all be on the same page by the time you start working on the applications. Your goal is to create a list of schools about which you are truly excited. By visiting schools, talking with current students, reading viewbooks, and digging into websites, you will figure out why you are excited about each school on your list. The more carefully and thoughtfully you’ve considered each possible college, the stronger your applications to those colleges will be. There are many resources available to help you with your research. Each college has a website, and current students frequently publish material online about their experiences. If you are able to visit colleges before applying, travel smart. If you only visit a handful of extremely selective, medium-sized research universities, your trip may not reflect the true breadth of schools out there. Instead, you might want to visit a handful of different types of colleges and universities in your area to get a sense of how schools vary and what feels like a good fit. You might be well-served by visiting a small liberal arts college, a small university, and a large public university, for example. If you discover that you like the feel of small liberal arts college versus the larger schools, then you could begin to narrow your search and explore other small liberal arts colleges. Here are some questions we recommend you try to answer while researching colleges: Long-term Plans What do you hope to achieve during your years in college? What courses and non-academic activities are available? Will they help you expand your horizons? What are your career goals? Does the school offer the preparation you will need? Location/Setting How far from home do you want to be? What kind of setting do you want? Rural, suburban, urban, small town, big city – there are a lot of possibilities to consider! Size/Student Body What size school appeals to you? What student-to-faculty ratio best suits your style of learning? What kind of people are you hoping to meet in college? Do the cultural or religious groups that are important to you have a welcoming presence on campus? Cost Are scholarships or financial aid policies in place that will make this school affordable? What kind of campus jobs are available? Selectivity What percent of students are admitted? What academic criteria does this school see in its strongest applicants? What kind of personal characteristics make for a good fit at this school? Am I applying to schools with a range of selectivity? BULLDOG BLOGS Why You Don't Need a Dream School Posted by Julia Hu In This Section What Yale Looks For Advice on Putting Together Your Application Advice on Selecting High School Courses Applying to Yale College FAQs Advice for First-Generation College Applicants Advice on Choosing Where to Apply After Colleges Accept You Beyond the College Rankings COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Related Links First-Year Application Process International First-Year Applicants Profile of the Class (PDF) Yale Facts Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved