Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Apply > Special Programs Special Programs Many of our majors offer options or specializations. For example, everyone applying to the McCombs School of Business applies as an “undeclared” business major. Only after enrolling do business students pick a specific undergraduate major. But certain fields of study require separate or delayed application, including: Athletic Training and Sport Management Students interested in Sport Management enter as Kinesiology and Health in the College of Education: Physical Culture and Sports majors. After completing a series of courses, students may apply for admission into the professional programs. Humanities Freshman students who wish to major in the College of Liberal Arts’ Humanities major enter the university in the Undeclared major option, then later apply to Humanities. The process involves designing a course of study, documenting interests and meeting with an advisor. Pharmacy Admission to the College of Pharmacy is a two-step process. To be considered, you must first be admitted to and enroll in a related major in, for example, the College of Natural Sciences. After completing initial studies in your selected major in your pre-pharmacy college, you will be able to apply to a professional program in the College of Pharmacy. Students applying for admission to the PharmD program after beginning their undergraduate coursework at another college or university do not need to complete the admissions application or apply for undergraduate transfer admission. Instead, visit the College of Pharmacy’s website for application instructions. Social Work Students admitted to the Steve Hicks School of Social Work enter as Pre-Social Work majors. After completing prerequisite courses, they are eligible to apply for admission to the Bachelor of Social Work program. Teacher Certification (Transfer Applicants) In addition to applying for transfer admission to the university, transfer applicants interested in a teacher certification professional development sequence must complete a separate application. For information, contact the College of Education. Pre-Med, Pre-Law & Teaching Our students don’t major in pre-med or pre-law. Instead, those interested in attending a professional school after earning their bachelor’s degree receive specialized advising through Pre-Law Services or the Health Professions Office. Additionally, Longhorns planning to teach middle or high school don’t major in education. Instead, they pursue a bachelor’s degree in their field, plus teaching certification through a groundbreaking program called UTeach. Next: Back to Apply Go to Admission Honors Housing admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022