Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Undergraduate Admissions Admissions right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English (ACE) Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Ace Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow In-Person Campus Tour right arrow down arrow Visitor Guidelines Campus Parking and Walking Directions Group Visit Self-Guided Visit Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First NEXT Innovation Scholarship Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media Admissions » Apply » Deadlines Set Navigation title in component Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Deadlines Students can apply for admission to the University of Cincinnati prior to the academic semester of their choice. All materials or required documentation must be submitted and received in the Office of Admissions on or before the dates listed below in order for a student to meet the deadline. Please refer to our Deadline Descriptions for more information about what each term means. First-year Student Deadlines Deadlines for first-year students. Fall Semester* Spring Semester Summer Semester Early Action (Scholarship) Deadline December 1 n/a n/a Application Deadline March 1 (rolling admission) November 1 March 1 Confirmation Deadline May 1 December 1 April 1 *Applicants to any major within CCM will be encouraged to submit pre-screening materials by November 15. For more CCM application information visit ccm.uc.edu/admissions. *The Bachelor of Science in Nursing program has a priority application deadline of November 1. Transfer Students Deadlines for transfer students. Fall Semester** Spring Semester Summer Semester Application Deadline July 1 November 1 March 1 Confirmation Deadline August 1 December 1 April 1 **Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning (DAAP) programs have a March 1 application deadline and June 1 confirmation deadline for fall semester. Late applications will be reviewed on a space available basis. Applicants to Architecture, Communication Design, Fashion Design, Industrial Design, and Interior Design are pooled and reviewed, and decisions are typically made in April and May. Applications to all other DAAP programs are reviewed on a rolling admission basis. Deadline Descriptions Application Deadline The "Application Deadline" is the date by which we need to receive all your application materials. The University of Cincinnati follows two types of admission plans, Early Action and Rolling. Early Action Deadline The Early Action Deadline is a non-binding plan that gives applicants priority consideration to our more competitive programs. Additionally, students need to apply by the Early Action deadline to be considered for The University Honors Program and merit-based scholarships. There is not a separate application for either of these. Electronic materials must be uploaded and any associated fees submitted by 11:59pm on December 1. Mailed materials must be postmarked on or before December 1. As long as all materials, whether electronic or mailed meet these time constraints and complete the student’s application packet, the application will be considered on time. Any applications that are incomplete or are submitted December 2 or later will be evaluated for admission to eligble programs but will not be considered for competitive academic programs that have closed, scholarships, or the university honors program. The following programs often receive more applicants than they have room to consider. Historically, these programs close on or shortly after the December 1 deadline. It is recommended that students applying to the following colleges apply via Early Action (applications received after December 1 for these programs will be considered on a space-available basis): College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Engineering & Applied Sciences College of Medicine College of Nursing Lindner College of Business *Applicants to any major within CCM will be encouraged to submit pre-screening materials by November 15. For more CCM application information visit ccm.uc.edu/admissions. Rolling Deadline The Rolling Deadline means that we accept applications on a space-available basis. Confirmation Deadline The "Confirmation Deadline" is the date by which we need to receive a response from you regarding your admission decision. You will not be able to enroll in classes until you confirm your admission. This is a two-step process consisting of submission of an online form and a non-refundable confirmation fee. This can be completed within your applicant status portal. Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top