Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Virtual Oregon State - On Demand Virtual Walking Tour of Campus Using our new mobile application, you can take a walking tour of the Oregon State campus from your home or when you visit Corvallis. The Guidebook app is free and easy to use. Learn about OSU whenever it’s convenient for you! guidebook-promo-onpage 360-Degree Tour of Campus We’re sorry that we can’t show you our campus in-person currently, but we have an outstanding virtual campus tour where we can show you some of our favorite spots at Oregon State University. Virtual Tour Stories of Beaver Nation University Video Collection I have time for a live event Welcome to OSU Enjoy some student stories from across Beaver Nation. Every student in every major is encouraged to get hands-on experience - through internships, service-learning projects, or study abroad. With so many opportunities across campus, undergraduate research, student life, and academics, your path will start here. Prospective Student Presentation Admissions staff and students present a campus overview with information about student life and academics, the OSU admissions process, and provide you with some general scholarship and financial aid information. If you want, You can also attend a live version of this session. Living on Campus Join University Housing & Dining Services and learn about the residence hall areas on campus. If you are looking for more information, watch virtual tours from each residence hall. Honors College Opportunities Pursue what interests you most. Conduct original research. Connect with distinguished faculty and alumni. Collaborate with fellow students in the classroom and beyond. More Information about Honors College College Connections Oregon State is made up of academic colleges that support over 200 undergraduate majors. Connect with their teams and learn about their programs. College of Agriculture College of Business College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences College of Education College of Engineering College of Forestry College of Liberal Arts College of Public Health and Human Sciences College of Science If you need a disability accommodation in order to access this information, please email [email protected] or call 541-737-2626 to request an accommodation. Information will be made available in different formats upon request. Visits and Events Visits and Events Main Page In-Person Daily Tours In-Person Vaccination Requirements Virtual Oregon State: Live Events Virtual Oregon State: On Demand Información en español Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Counselor Huddles About Corvallis OSU Events Calendar Virtual Tour Options Virtual Tour promo-guidebook-01.jpg Social Media Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram