Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Academics / Scholars Programs custom css-js - global Scholars Programs Tulane houses several academic programs designed specifically for undergraduates who possess the drive for deeper inquiry and a desire for faculty mentorship. These programs (most of which require separate applications) provide students with collaborative, 4-year cohort experiences and supplemental support for undergraduate research and professional development at Tulane. First-Year Honors Scholars' Experience Students involved as a First-Year Honors Scholar have the opportunity to look for greater inquiry and scholarship, no matter the field of study, in this one-year experience. They work with faculty mentors, attend guest lectures, and have the option to take the Honors Colloquium as a cohort. Students are invited to participate in the Honors Scholars' experience during the admission process. Newcomb Scholars Program The Newcomb Scholars Program is a cohort program focused on scholarship and research, leadership, and community engagement, no matter the field of study. Newcomb Scholars take several courses as a 20-member cohort and complete theses to present during the annual Newcomb Scholars Symposium. Students apply for Newcomb Scholars in the fall of their freshman year. Community Service Fellowship Students apply for the Community Service Fellowship during the undergraduate admission process, and those selected form a small cohort of deeply engaged and socially conscious Tulane freshmen who commit to 150 service and leadership hours per year. Community Service Fellows receive guidance from the Center for Public Service, attend regular cohort meetings, and learn to be dynamic leaders and community advocates. Altman Program in International Studies & Business Students apply for the Altman Program during the undergraduate admission process. From that group, about 20 Altman Scholars form a cohort of freshmen who pursue dual degrees in business and liberal arts and take Altman-specific courses. Each Scholar specializes and studies in a region of the world in which their chosen foreign language is spoken, and each cohort travels together to a developing country the summer after their freshman year. Tulane Research & Innovation Award (TRIA) The Tulane Research and Innovation Award (TRIA) is a hands-on program offered to incoming Science & Engineering Honors students. Through TRIA, students are paired with a Science & Engineering faculty member in their chosen field of study to assist the faculty member in their research over the course of the academic year. TRIA students are expected to work 10 hours per week and will receive a stipend each semester for their work. Majors & Minors Degrees & Requirements Core Curriculum Accelerated Degree Programs TIDES Scholars Programs Earning College Credit AP, IB & A Level Exams Facilities & Resources Libraries Technology Advising Career Services Art, Culture, & Research Centers Technology Connection Did You Know? 22 Jump Street was partially filmed on Tulane's campus in 2013. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University