Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Financial Aid by the Numbers Students admitted to the Class of 2025 who applied for aid with family incomes up to $160,000 typically pay no tuition. Approximately 62 percent of undergraduates receive financial aid. An estimated 212 million in grant funds will be awarded to over 3,200 undergraduates in 2021-22. The average grant for the Class of 2025 was $62,200, which covers 100 percent of Princeton tuition. For families making up to $65,000 per year, the aid package covers full tuition, room, and board. 22 percent of the Class of 2025 is eligible for need-based Federal Pell Grants. For the Class of 2025, 100 percent of families making up to $180,000 per year qualified for financial aid. 83 percent of recent seniors graduated debt free. For seniors who borrowed, the average total indebtedness at graduation was $9,600. Undergraduate Blog One of the Best Decisions of My Life By Roberto Hasbun Learn More Full content of /blogs/one-best-decisions-my-life Financial Aid Estimator How much aid might I qualify for? Financial Aid Estimator Full content of /node/516 Frequently Asked Questions Are undocumented students eligible for financial aid? Learn More Full content of https://admission.princeton.edu/faqs Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746