Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Undergraduate Admissions Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy First-Year ApplicantsIt all starts here Transfer ApplicantsEasy transition Check Application Status Costs & Aid Apply for Aid Financial Aid Eligibility Costs to Attend Financial Aid Calculator Value of a Cornell Education Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Facts Frequently Asked Questions Cornell A-Z Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections You are here Home » Parents and Families print share Facebook Twitter Parents and Families What you need to know about admissions: First-Year Applicants – Learn about the application process. Transfer Applicants – Learn about the transfer process. International Students – Find additional information and application tips here. First-year Student Requirements – Review the high school preparation that is required for admission. Deadlines – Know the important dates for early decision, regular decision, and financial aid. Financial Aid Calculator – Use this tool to estimate your child's eligibility for need-based financial aid from Cornell. International Financial Aid – Find additional information on financial aid for international students here. Virtual Visit – Watch our online information session, meet our students, and more. Plan Your Visit – Attend an information session, take a campus tour, and/or observe a class. Cornell Near You – See if Cornell is visiting your area. Entering Class Profile – This provides a brief summary of the profile of Cornell's most recent incoming class. Financial Aid Information for DACA, Undocumented, and Green Card Applicants – Find additional information on financial aid for DACA, Undocumented, and Green Card Applicants. Explore Cornell: College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Arts and Sciences Cornell SC Johnson College of Business Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management College of Engineering College of Human Ecology School of Industrial and Labor Relations Cornell University Parents – Explore this site designed for the parents of students. Caring Community – A gateway for all of the support services Cornell has to offer. Cornell A-Z – From Cornell's American Indian Program to the Women's Resource Center, you'll find it all here. CornellCast – Check out this interactive look at Cornell. Events Calendar – See a play, attend a concert, support a cause. The Cornell Daily Sun – Read all about it! Academic Programs – Learn about the majors offered for undergraduate students. Cornell Athletics – Cheer on Big Red! Undergraduate Admissions Prospective Students Transfer Students Admitted Students International Students Counselors Parents and Families Contact Us From your first questions about Cornell to the completion of your application, the Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you find the information you need. Website Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. University Privacy Statement Undergraduate Admissions Office Cornell University 410 Thurston Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 admissions@cornell.edu Tel: 607.255.5241 Fax: 607.255.0659 © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment Admitted Students