Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Medical School Admissions Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Search Medical School Admissions AMCAS/MCAT The AMCAS application must be submitted before November 1 to be eligible for admission into the next year’s incoming class. Breadcrumb Home Apply Sub Navigation In This Section Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Frequently Asked Questions Answers to the most common queries about the application process at The Warren Alpert Medical School. Frequently Asked Questions AMCAS/MCAT The AMCAS application must be submitted before November 1 to be eligible for admission into the next year’s incoming class. AMCAS Candidates for the MD Class of 2027 must apply through the American Medical College Application Service (AMCAS), which is a nonprofit, centralized application processing service for applicants to the first-year entering classes at participating US medical schools and is administered by the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC). You must submit the AMCAS application before November 1 to be eligible for admission into the next year’s incoming class. We encourage you to submit all of your application materials early in the cycle. It can take several weeks for AMCAS to verify your transcript information. All applicants (to either the Regular MD or the Combined MD-ScM program) should select the "Regular MD" program and designate “Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University” as a receiving school on the AMCAS application. When Alpert Medical School receives your verified AMCAS record, you will then receive electronic mail instructions for the online secondary application. You will receive two emails with a username, Brown ID number, and instructions on how to check the status of your application via Alpert Medical School's secure online application system (AMP). Through this site, you will be able to access up-to-date information regarding your application, including confirmation of the Admissions Office's receipt of supporting materials, notification of missing information, and the decision on a file once it has been determined. MCAT The Medical College Admissions Test (MCAT) is required for all AMCAS applicants. Scores from tests taken within the three-year period prior to matriculation are acceptable. For example, applicants to the 2023 first-year entering class must present MCAT scores dated from January 2020 onward. We encourage you to take the MCAT exam as early as possible during the application year. For information regarding the MCAT test schedule and general instructions, refer to the AAMC website. The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University considers all applications completed by our deadline of December 1, 2022. All scores received prior to the deadline are considered for the current cycle. There is no requirement for a minimum MCAT composite score. The median MCAT for the past three classes (MD22, MD23, and MD24) was 515. The average MCAT for the MD Class of 2024 was 516. Frequently Asked Questions Answers to the most common queries about the application process at The Warren Alpert Medical School. Frequently Asked Questions Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search AMCAS/MCAT Open details for AMCAS/MCAT Bookmark this Page