Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Slides Skip to carousel player controls to pause, play, and advance slides. Videos do not contain audio. Princeton shield Princeton shield Princeton shield Princeton shield Visit Us “Students have to realize the sky is the limit.” William A. Massey '77, professor of operations research and financial engineering Pan aerial across campus Slider controls Skip to content Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Visit Us You can get a good feel for all that Princeton has to offer in-person or online. The land on which the University stands is part of the ancient homeland and unceded traditional territory of the Lenape people. We pay respect to Lenape peoples, past, present, and future and their continuing presence in the homeland and throughout the Lenape diaspora. Learn more. Prospective students are welcome to visit campus and enjoy our outdoor facilities, our Admission Information Center is located at 36 University Place (adjacent to the University store). However, per University policy, visitors will not have access to buildings on campus. We encourage you to take advantage of our self-guided campus tour via your smartphone, sign up for a student-led campus tour and an in-person information session or register for a virtual information session below. On-Campus Options Student-led Campus Tour and In-person Admission Information Session Join us for an in-person admission information session and/or a student-led tour of our beautiful 600-acre campus On weekdays, we offer in-person Admission Information Session and a student-led campus tour. Weekend visitors will have the opportunity to register for a student-led tour. Your tour guides will share their Princeton experience with you as you stroll through the heart of the University and learn more about our history, traditions and academic programs. Registration is required and space is limited. Register now Self-Guided Tour Take a self-guided campus tour via your smartphone. Download Adora, an app created by Princeton students, and explore campus from your fingertips. Text Princeton to 58052 to start exploring campus. Take a Self-Guided Tour At-Home Options Virtual Information Session with an Admission Officer We invite you to join us in one of our upcoming Virtual Information Sessions conducted via Zoom Webinar. The session will be hosted live by an Admission Officer and will include an overview of the University; our admission process and Princeton’s generous financial aid. Learn more about our campus through this virtual experience. Join Us for a Session Virtual Tour Explore campus from your desktop or smartphone. Our 23-stop tour, led by Princeton undergraduates, highlights academic buildings, athletic complexes and many student support services. The tour is available in four languages. Take a Virtual Tour Listen Learn about Princeton on-the-go Can only spare a few minutes? Have Zoom fatigue? Listen to a 15-minute Admission Information Session, led by an admission officer, while walking, driving or just passing the time! Princeton Admission Info Podcast_4.mp3 Discover More Stay Connected Through Instagram Follow us @Apply.Princeton for information about upcoming programs, student takeovers, specials announcements and more. Follow us Read and Review Choose from a selection of our digital admission publications. More information about academics, campus life and financial aid is available in our many digital publications, which are available for download. Please note: The downloadable .PDFs are 508 compliant. Download Publications Social Stay Connected On Instagram @apply.princeton Follow Us Full content of https://www.instagram.com/apply.princeton/ Princeton at a Glance Play Video: Princeton at a Glance Video of Welcome to Princeton Reasons to Love New Jersey Play Video: Reasons to Love New Jersey Video of Reasons to Love New Jersey Undergraduate Blog Beyond the Orange Bubble By Naomi Hess Learn More Full content of /blogs/beyond-orange-bubble Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746