Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership You are here Home Academics Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Get Ready to Fly Fly in 4 is Temple’s innovative way of ensuring you complete your degree in four years—or sooner. One of the first of its kind in the U.S., the Fly in 4 program helps you stay on course academically and financially by offering you a clear four-year academic plan to get you to graduation on time. By graduating in four years, you’ll avoid the extra costs associated with taking additional semesters. Fly in 4 guarantees that you can complete your degree on time. If you follow all of the program’s requirements and are unable to graduate in four years, Temple will pay for your remaining coursework. How Fly in 4 Helps You Fly in 4 is a partnership between you and Temple. We provide you with the resources you need to graduate in four years, such as academic advising, annual grants for select students, classes offered when you need them and more. By signing up, you can limit your student loan debt and empower yourself to take charge of your future by entering the professional workforce as soon as possible. Fly in 4 guarantees that you can complete your degree on time. If you follow all of the program’s requirements and are unable to graduate in four years, Temple will pay for your remaining coursework. And, there is no penalty if you opt out of the agreement or if you take longer than four years to graduate. Quick Look Number of students who have opted into Fly in 4 since its inception in 2014—36,000+ Average percentage of first-year students who have chosen to enroll in Fly in 4 from 2014 to 2021—91%. Fly in 4 students graduate at a rate 17% higher than students who do not opt into the agreement. What is Fly in 4? Frequently Asked Questions How does Fly in 4 work? You take the first step towards committing to graduate in four years by accepting the Fly in 4 agreement and by meeting several, annual checkpoints. Under Fly in 4, Temple will provide all incoming first-year students with the tools and incentives to graduate on time, including academic plans and advising that keep them on track and classes that are offered when students need them. If students fulfill all of the responsibilities of the plan but still can’t graduate on time, Temple will pay for any remaining coursework. What is the Fly in 4 grant? Fly in 4 directly addresses a problem that affects Temple students. To pay for their education, some Temple students (particularly those from middle- and low-income backgrounds) work a number of hours each week at off-campus jobs, which prevents them from graduating on time and adds to the debt they acquire for living expenses. To help remedy that situation, Fly in 4 will provide $4,000 annual grants to up to 500 students with demonstrated need in each incoming class, so those students can focus less on working and more on finishing their degrees. What are my responsibilities under the plan? You agree to consult with an academic advisor each semester. register for classes during the priority registration period. select courses that are consistent with your academic plan. notify an academic advisor if a course is not available. advance annually in class standing (30 credits per year). have a graduation review before your senior year. Temple agrees to provide a four-year plan specifically for you. offer quality academic advising. create progress reports. ensure alternatives are available when a required course isn’t offered before your senior year. What if my major is designed to take longer than four years? If you are in a program that requires more than four years to complete, you’ll be expected to graduate on time according to the academic plan for your major. Can transfer students participate? Transfer students can participate if the credits they earned elsewhere—combined with the remaining credits they need at Temple—will allow them to graduate in a total of four years. If you are a transfer student, you should talk with your advisor to learn more. Can international students participate? All students at Temple may be eligible for Fly in 4 including international students. All the same resources are available to help students graduate on time. However, international students cannot qualify for the Fly in 4 grants, as they are not eligible for need-based financial aid. Can I double major, change majors, study abroad or participate in internships? All of those things may be possible, if you plan carefully. You should consult your advisor to see how to incorporate a double major, change of major, study abroad program or internship into your four-year academic plan. How do I sign up? Signing up for Fly in 4 is easy—once you’ve been admitted to Temple and commit to enrolling, all you have to do is opt into the agreement online. The agreement works by holding both you and the university accountable. (If you’re an international or transfer student, find out how the program works for you by contacting us below.) The Fly in 4 partnership agreement will soon be available for you to sign on TUportal, Temple’s electronic access point for students. Discover more about Fly in 4. Learn about need-based grants, discover student testimonials and get detailed steps on how to enroll. /academics/fly-4-graduation-partnership/need-based-grants-and-eligibility Fly in 4 Grants Fly in 4 offers 500 need-based grants annually to select students in each entering class. Fly in 4 Grants /academics/fly-4-graduation-partnership/student-testimonials Student Testimonials Hear directly from students about their experience with Fly in 4. Student Testimonials Sign Up to Enroll If you’ve been offered admission to Temple, you can sign the Fly in 4 agreement by logging in to your TUportal account after we’ve received your enrollment deposit. Enroll in Fly in 4 Further Questions? If you’re an international or transfer student, find out more about how the program could work for you, and get any other questions you might have answered. We are available via email at flyin4@temple.edu. Back to Main Academics Go back to AcademicsMore in Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info