Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission International Applicants Frequently asked questions about international applicants Breadcrumb Home Frequently Asked Questions Do you require TOEFL? Are there any options for satisfying your English proficiency requirement other than the TOEFL? We highly recommend that international applicants take the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), the International English Language Testing System (IELTS), or the Duolingo and arrange for Brown to receive the official results. A minimum score of 100 on the TOEFL internet-based exam or 600 on the paper-based exam, a minimum score of 8.0 on the IELTS, or a minimum score of 125 on the Duolingo is expected in most cases. As your safety is our first concern, we do not expect you to sit for any of these examinations in person. We do not currently accept the IELTS Indicator Examination. How do I apply as a freshman? Every year Brown welcomes students from around the world. In fact, about fifteen percent of our students come from abroad. We encourage you to review the information on our website that is unique to international applicants. All applicants to Brown complete the Common Application. Although the forms are geared toward the U.S. secondary school system, they may be used to convey the specifics of any nation's educational system. Documents or information that will be part of your application file should be written in English or be accompanied by official translations along with original documents in the original language. Students who are attending schools outside of the United States must complete and submit the Secondary School Report form, which can be downloaded from the Common Application website. Is the admission process the same for international applicants? International applicants adhere to the same requirements, standards and deadlines as all students. Must the application forms be completed in English? Yes. Will Brown accept letters of reference in languages other than English? If one of your teachers is more comfortable writing to us in his or her native language, please arrange to have another person (preferably a school official) send a written English translation along with the original letter. How does Brown evaluate non-U.S. credentials? We are familiar with many of the academic credentials, exams and educational systems around the world and will research any unfamiliar systems to increase our understanding. While certain credentials may be quite different from those commonly used in the United States, we still seek students who present evidence of academic ability and a genuine interest in learning. While we tend to admit students who have achieved at the highest levels in their own systems of education, we focus on the whole person and look well beyond the numerical results achieved in examinations and exam predictions. What is your financial aid policy for international applicants? Brown meets full demonstrated need of all admitted students who have applied for financial aid. However, the total amount of funds set aside for foreign citizens as a group, is limited. Therefore, we are not need-blind when we review applications from international applicants. If you wish to be considered for financial aid at any time during your four years at Brown, you should apply at the time of your initial application to the College. Awards are not given in cash, but as credits toward the cost of tuition, fees, room and board. Financial aid covers books and some personal expenses, but does not cover vacation and summer expenses. Does the TOEFL replace the SAT? Since the TOEFL and the SAT have very different purposes, we do not consider either one to replace the usefulness of the other. Can advanced standing be awarded to students based on certain international exam results or higher level study as a secondary school student? At Brown, international diploma or certificate exam scores/grades may serve three main purposes after a student has matriculated if official results are on file: to place into higher level courses, to obtain actual course credit (which is not identical to placement or concentration credit) when needed in order to graduate or to qualify for one semester of advanced standing in order to meet graduation requirements. Students may not receive placement credit, course credit or advanced standing on the basis of their results if they have taken the corresponding course at Brown. Students may consult the academic dean for pre-Brown transfer credit about their eligibility for course credit and/or advanced standing after matriculating, but may not apply before completing their first-year of study at Brown. International Baccalaureate results in certain higher level subjects, A-Level, other international diploma or certificate programs and advanced coursework completed at other colleges or universities prior to Brown may be considered for placement credit by Brown during the summer before your arrival, if the Brown Admission Office received your official results. My final grades are exam results that will not be available until the end of my secondary school studies. How does that affect my application to Brown? When final examination results are not available until after our admission decisions are made (e.g., British A-Levels), we rely on the predicted results as provided by your school officials and on any other academic credentials that are already available. We trust that your actual examination results will reasonably match the predicted outcomes and review the final results with care. We must reserve the right to rescind an offer of admission in the event that actual results do not meet the predictions. Do you require applicants to have a high school diploma? Brown requires proof of completion of high school (secondary school) or its equivalent at the time of entrance. Brown first-year students will have completed 12 years of primary and secondary schooling. You should plan to sit for national examinations, such as the GCE A-levels, German Abitur, French Baccalauréat and submit the predicted scores for those examinations as part of your credentials for admission to Brown. Students who have completed 13 years of schooling and who have completed their external national examinations for college-level work with exceptional results may be eligible for some advanced standing or transfer credit at Brown once they become sophomores. International certifications most commonly earned by our students include the International Baccalaureate diploma or A-levels; other national "13th-year" certification programs, however, may be considered on a case-by-case basis. It should be noted that neither course credit nor enrollment credit is granted for AS or O-level exams. What level of English proficiency is required for admission? We expect the following of all international students who are offered admission to Brown’s undergraduate college: The student should be able to understand rapid, idiomatic American English as spoken in the classroom. The student should be able to express thoughts quickly and clearly in both spoken and written English. The student should be able to read the English language with ease. English language proficiency must be achieved before you are admitted. Brown does not offer courses in English as a Second Language for its undergraduates and does not offer provisional acceptances to students who are deficient in English. Are there quotas for International applicants? There are no quotas of any kind for any of our applicants. We value the presence of international students in the Brown community. We do not set targets or limits, but instead respond to the number of qualified applicants we receive in a given year. What is the Advancing Africa Scholarship? All students who are citizens of a sub-Saharan African country who apply for financial aid are automatically considered for the Advancing Africa Scholarship. This scholarship provides additional benefits for the selected candidate. For more information please contact the Office of Financial Aid. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search International Applicants Open details for International Applicants Bookmark this Page