Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Parent & Family Programs Families right arrow down arrow Family Portal Family Guides right arrow down arrow Supporting Your Student During COVID-19 First-Generation College Students Coffee Chats & Webinars Events right arrow down arrow Family Weekend Hotels Visit UC Student Resources right arrow down arrow Send Your Bearcat a Note Staff Job Opportunities Home » Campus Life » UC Parent & Family Programs UC Parent & Family Programs Welcome to the Bearcat Family! Parent & Family Programs is excited to partner with you to ensure your student's success. As a UC family, YOU are an essential part of your student's experience. We encourage you to become an engaged and informed resource for your student. Our office is here to help! Please feel free to reach out to us anytime. We look forward to hearing from you and seeing you around campus! Family Weekend - Sept. 16-18, 2022 UC Family Portal Family Guides Note: Our Facebook page was recently unpublished by Facebook by accident and we are working to get it reinstated. We hope to connect with you there soon! In the meantime, you can always call (513-556-1200) or email us as usual! We look forward to chatting with you! Our Purpose Parent & Family Programs provides families with information about student services and resources, campus engagement opportunities, and a dedicated place to receive support in helping their students successfully navigate the UC experience. Connect with Us We encourage you to stay informed. We offer several resources to help you learn more about UC and stay updated on the latest news and information about our campus. Sign-up for our Family Portal. Follow us on Facebook! (Note: our Facebook page was recently unpublished by Facebook by accident and we are working to get it reinstated. We hope to connect with you there soon!) Reach out to us anytime at 513-556-1200 or families@uc.edu. We are here to help! Check out our resource list to learn more about the programs and support services available to help your student succeed at UC. Sign-up for weather and safety alerts. ¿Hablas Español? Familias solicitando asistenica en Español, por favor contáctenos familias@uc.edu y un miembro de la Universidad de Cincinnati hará un seguimiento con usted en breve. Visit Us Visit us at 630 Steger Student Life Center. The accessible entrance is on the west side of Steger Student Life Center. Take the ramp between Steger and Swift Hall. At the top of the ramp to the right, enter Steger Student Life Center through the double doors. Our welcome desk is on your left. Connect with Your Student When your student goes off to college, it can be an adjustment for the whole family. You may not see each other as often, and your communication style may shift. While you will most likely text or talk with your student throughout the week, small gestures to remind your Bearcat that you are thinking about them can go a long way in helping to make their new "home-away-from-home" feel more comfortable. Send a Care Package right arrow down arrow While your student is at UC, you will want to celebrate important milestones and events with them even from a far! Meaningful care packages allow you to support them every step of the way! To make it easier for you, we have partnered with Our Campus Market to provide care packages for students throughout the year. OCM has care packages and cakes for every milestone - final exams, holidays, birthdays, and more! They also offer options for specific dietary restrictions. A portion of care package sales support the year-round efforts of our office. Thank you for your support! Send Your Bearcat a Letter right arrow down arrow A quick note can really brighten your student's day! You can even send your Bearcat a UC-themed postcard directly through our office by completing our short form. If you send mail from home, we strongly encourage you to use the mailing address format provided by Resident Education & Development to ensure that your student receives their mail promptly. Receive a Letter from Your Bearcat right arrow down arrow Throughout the year, we host pop-up events for Bearcats to send you or another family member a quick note to let you know they are thinking about you! We cover the postage for all mail sent as part of our "Letters to Home" events. Several times a year, we flip this event and invite families to write letters to their Bearcats! Make a Gift Gifts to the UC Parents Fund go directly to family and student programming and activities that are not covered by tuition and fees. You can specify a one-time donation or a recurring annual contribution. If you have any questions, please contact the UC Foundation at 513-556-6781. Request More Information University of Cincinnati 630 Steger Student Life Center 2801 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1200 families@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 630 Steger Student Life Center 2801 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-1200 families@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top