Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Enroll > After-Admission Checklist After-Admission Checklist Freshman Transfer You’ve earned freshman admission to The University of Texas at Austin, and you’re decided on becoming a Longhorn. What's next? Accept your offer Visit MyStatus to accept your offer of admission and, if required, to satisfy the $200 enrollment deposit. An enrollment deposit is not required for students entering in the spring semester. Be sure to take action by the deadline! More Information Enrollment Deposit eProxy Enrollment Deposit The enrollment deposit is required only for applicants to certain terms, and is not required for spring enrollment. When paid, the entirety of the deposit will be applied to your first semester’s tuition and fees. Enrollment deposits are not refundable. Waiver A deposit exemption is available to those with financial need; see MyStatus for details. eProxy When you accept your offer of admission, you may want to authorize someone—a parent, perhaps—to help you complete an online process that requires a UT EID and password. Don’t share yours! Instead, authorize that person to act on your behalf using eProxy. Submit your housing contract If you applied for on-campus housing, you’ll be eligible to receive a contract after you satisfy the admissions enrollment deposit. More Information Housing Contract Advance Payment Housing Preferences Contract Cancellation Questions The Housing Contract Housing contracts are offered in housing application date order starting on March 1 to those students that have satisfied the enrollment deposit. We reserve contracts for students that are still making their university acceptance decision who are within the housing application date range of our contract offers. As long as your housing application date is within that date range, we will have a contract for you after you make your decision. Room selection is not affected by the date you complete your housing contract. When you receive the email letting you know your housing contract is available, you’ll have a limited amount of time to complete the Advance Payment and sign your contract. The housing contracts are signed online through your Housing Portal. If you are under 18, you will need to print the contract signature page, have a guarantor sign the contract and submit the signature sheet to complete the contract process. If you missed the deadline, please contact our office and we can put you back in line for another contract offer. The contract offers you a space in on-campus housing –– not a particular residence hall or a specific room. During the room selection process, students will be able to assign themselves to their building, floor and room. If you are assigned by University Housing and Dining we will work to offer you the kind of space you want based on your indicated preferences and your housing application date. Check the status of your housing application anytime by logging in to My Housing. Required Advance Payment In order to sign your housing contract, a $300 advance payment must be received by the contract expiration date. Pay online, in person or by mail: Online: You will be directed to the online payment page by clicking the ‘Pay Now’ button on the Housing Prepayment page in your Housing Portal where you can pay by EFT, e-check, or credit card. In Person: You will need to contact University Housing and Dining to create a $300 bill on your student account. Payment can then be made at Bursar’s Services. In-person payments can be made in cash or by check, cashier’s check or money order. The university does not accept credit cards in person or by phone. By Mail: Send a check payable to The University of Texas at Austin: University Housing and Dining P.O. Box 7666 Austin, TX 78713-7666 Be sure to write your UT EID on the check. Note: Mail payment is not preferred. Students who pay by mail risk delays that might mean the payment does not arrive by the contract expiration date. The advance payment will be deferred to the fall housing and food bill for students who receive an admissions application fee waiver or enrollment deposit exemption. Questions about eligibility? Call the Office of Admissions. Indicating Housing Preferences You can update your housing preferences in your Housing Portal as soon as your contract has been submitted. You may continue to update your preferences after your contract expiration date. Room selection begins in June. When you update your housing preferences, you’ll indicate: Your building preference Your Living Learning Community preferences Your premium option preferences (singles/connecting or private bath) Your roommate preferences If you don’t have a preferred roommate, you can use our roommate profile search to look for one. Students can also view potential roommate profiles as they are selecting rooms. Contract Cancellation You may cancel your submitted housing contract prior to Mooov-In, but the advance payment is refundable only to admitted freshmen who decide not to enroll at the university and visit MyStatus to decline their offer to admission no later than May 1. Cancelling the offer of admission cancels the housing contract. Students who plan to attend the university are not eligible to receive a refund of the advance payment, even if they decide to live off campus. Those who cancel the housing contract after July 1 but prior to August 1 are assessed a $200 cancellation fee in addition to forfeiture of the advance payment. Those who cancel the housing contract after Aug. 1 but prior to Mooov-In are assessed a $700 cancellation fee in addition to forfeiture of the advance payment. Those who received a financial aid deferment of the advance payment will be assessed a $300 cancellation fee if they would otherwise be subject to payment forfeiture. After July 1 and until August 1, the cancellation fee for those who received a deferment is $500. After August 1, the cancellation fee for those who received a deferment is $1,000. Questions Questions about on-campus housing? Contact University Housing and Dining. Register for orientation Learn your way around campus, meet with an academic advisor, spend time with other incoming students and register for classes—it’s all at orientation, and it’s required for all freshmen. More Information Registration Registration Register for orientation beginning in mid-April if you are admitted to a fall term, later in April if you are admitted to a summer term, or in November if you are admitted to a spring term. You can also learn more about orientation dates and other related topics. Complete the FAFSA and accept financial aid awards By January 15, submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Even if you think you’re not likely to qualify for need-based aid, it’s still a good idea to apply. If you complete your FAFSA, you'll receive a financial aid notification in early spring, which will direct you to view and accept your financial aid package on CASH. For more information on this process, please visit the Understanding Your Aid page on the Texas One Stop website. More Information About the FAFSA International Applicants About the FAFSA All need-based financial aid is awarded based on your FAFSA information. When you apply, be sure to list The University of Texas at Austin (003658) as one of the colleges you’re considering so that the information you provide will be reported to us. What comes next: We’ll notify you by email that we’ve received your FAFSA. We’ll send you a Financial Aid Notification (FAN) that lists all financial aid we can offer you. FANs are typically available between mid-March and mid-April. You’ll also receive notice of any scholarship awards. Via Check Aid Status Here (CASH), you respond to the FAN and any other award notices, submitting any additional required documentation and electing which aid you’d like to accept. You receive your funds (a few days before classes). Questions? Contact the Texas One Stop. International Applicants There is limited financial aid available for international students, but those who qualify for Texas residency may also qualify for some state-funded financial aid programs. To apply, please visit the Apply page for instructions on submitting a paper FAFSA, paper TASFA, or eTASFA. (Because international Texas residents are not eligible for federal aid, they should not complete the online FAFSA, which goes directly to the federal government.) Need assistance? Contact Texas One Stop. You should indicate that you are a non-citizen student who qualifies for Texas residency. Additional financial aid and scholarship information for international students is available from the International Office. Check MyStatus Stay in the know by regularly logging in to MyStatus. In the weeks leading up to enrollment, you’ll be asked to share emergency contact information, submit final, official transcripts and provide proof of required immunization. Prepare for orientation Prior to your orientation session, complete the pre-orientation checklist, plan your travel and review the schedule. It’s also time to start thinking about your Longhorn readiness. Satisfy special requirements From applying for a student visa to checking in with the International Office, complete a few extra steps if you applied as an international student. More Information Student and Scholar Services International Student “Check-in” International Student and Scholar Services The university’s International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) offers information, services and programs to admitted and enrolled students who are not U.S. citizens or U.S. permanent residents. Whether you come to Austin from your home country or from a school or university in the United States, you should become familiar with ISSS and its services. One of the things ISSS will do is send you important information about immigration requirements and regulations. If you reside outside the United States, you must apply for a student visa to enter the country. After you submit the required evidence of financial support to ISSS, the appropriate immigration document (I-20 or DS-2019) will be sent to you. New International Student “Check-in” Before registration, you must bring your immigration documents to the International Office for Immigration Briefing and Check In. You will meet with an advisor who will give you information and answer your questions about immigration, insurance, registration, U.S. social security number eligibility and other matters of importance. Deadlines Enrolling freshmen should keep in mind the following deadlines: Summer/Fall Submit FAFSA: January 15 Accept admission: May 1 Satisfy enrollment deposit: May 1 Submit on-campus housing preferences: July 1 Spring Submit FAFSA: January 15 Accept admission: December 15 Quick Links Orientation Longhorn Readiness Next: Back to Enroll Go to Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022