Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Medical School Admissions Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Search Medical School Admissions Esther Wu MD’22 Biography Esther Wu has long been fascinated by the brain. A neuroscience and biology double major at Dartmouth, she worked at a clinic where she interviewed families of patients with dementia, held a social engagement group for kids with autism spectrum disorder, and did her senior honors thesis on developmental prosopagnosia. But before committing to years of medical education and training, the Pasadena, CA, native wanted to try something different, and found a job with a life sciences consulting firm in Boston. “I felt a few steps removed from helping actual patients, and I knew then that it was time to head to med school,” she says. As a third-year student interested in neurology or neurosurgery, Esther researches traumatic brain injury and helped organize the National Student Neurosurgery and Neurology Research Conference at The Warren Alpert Medical School. She serves on the Medical Student Senate, co-led a preclinical elective during her second year, and volunteers with the Rhode Island Free Clinic. A figure skater, Esther competed at Dartmouth and still skates occasionally with Brown’s club. “I knew from the moment I got to campus for my interview that I could build a community here,” she says. “I’ve been impressed with the resources, shadowing opportunities, and the willingness of professors and attendings to serve as mentors. I’m glad that I went with my gut.” Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Esther Wu MD’22 Open details for Esther Wu MD’22 Bookmark this Page