Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Art & Performing Arts Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually Professor Steve Swayne: “Many Dartmouth grads are going to go on to be community leaders…asked to serve on the boards of symphonies, museums, opera companies. Have we done what we can do to equip them to serve well in that capacity?” Arts programs at Dartmouth never force you to choose between building technical skills or academic skills; we embrace the “and”. Our faculty are deeply invested in developing creative, imaginative artists as well as critical thinkers. You can explore the cultural underpinnings and economic impacts of great works of the past while collaborating with your classmates to create your own masterpiece, all with the guidance and support of world-class faculty and masters of their crafts. Our Faculty of Art & Performing Arts Say See Another Quote Soo Sunny Park "As a sculptor teaching in various genres of visual art, my primary goal is to guide students with active, creative, and engaging assignments, to provide inspiring visual resources and reading materials, and, in a broader sense, to facilitate the skill development needed to articulate ideas visually in each chosen discipline." Learn more about Soo Sunny Park, the Parents Distinguished Research Professor in the Humanities Professor of Studio Art Professor Mary Coffey Mary Coffey specializes in the history of modern Mexican visual culture, with an emphasis on Mexican muralism and the politics of exhibition. At Dartmouth, take her course on Constructing and Dismantling Mexican National Identity, and tour Orozco’s most famous murals. "My thinking about the mural has been utterly transformed by this place, by my students, by the questions they ask, and by the things they do with the mural." Learn more about Mary Coffey, Associate Professor of Art History Professor Enrico Riley Asked about the evolution of his painting, Riley says, “The act of painting doesn’t exist isolated from time; it responds to the artist’s development as a human being, and as you move through life and have different experiences, how you paint changes, subtly or drastically.” Learn more about Enrico Riley, Associate Professor of Studio Art Professor Jodie Mack “The focus of my research is to encourage people to question abstraction’s role in society themselves, think about constantly obsolescing technology, the role of products made for disposal, and the role of experimental animation.” Learn more about Jodie Mack, Associate Professor of Film and Media Studies Cool Classes Dartmouth creates a rich academic culture imbued with critical thinking and creativity, one that promotes experimentation, reflection, learning, and leadership. But don't take our word for it. We asked our students to tell us about some of their favorite arts and performing arts courses. Academics at DartmouthDartmouth Arts NewsStudying the Arts at Dartmouth Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. ARTH 47.01: Building America A Department of Art History Course This class completely changed the way I understood the physical and social landscape around me. From Dartmouth campus to cities across America, Professor Heck captivated me with architectural and social themes of American history. She seamlessly wove the transformation of America's social landscape with the building of our physical landscape, showing their symbiotic development. I will take this class with me through life as I travel and continue to learn about the space and places around me! THEA 40: Technical Production A Department of Theater Course Theater 40 was one of my favorite classes. We got to work in Dartmouth's Scene Shop and learn about all the different aspects of technical theater. It was kind of like a choose-your-own-adventure class, where you could work on different projects depending on your interests. I learned a lot about sound and lighting design that I probably never would have learned otherwise. FILM 33: Writing for the Screen One A Department of Film and Media Studies Course I thought this would be a pretty individualistic class. Write your proposal, write your story, write your script. But it turns out starting from a place of support when embarking on a creative journey is crucial. Professor Phillips lets you know he’s there every step of the way and builds a support network. I received feedback from every classmate at every stage, not just my final product. It helped me take a step back and get fresh perspective. Come in with a story, come out with a better one. FILM 3: Introduction to Digital Arts and Culture A Department of Film and Media Studies Course How often do you analyze an emoji keyboard on your midterm exam? Professor Williams does an amazing job of bringing everyday concepts into the classroom and having us examine seemingly exclusively aesthetic or ‘shallow’ topics academically. After a day of class researching a performance artist who posted and posed as a variety of Instagram “It Girl” tropes and her commentary on ways we construct femininity in the digital age, I realized that my selfies too can be art. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Art & Performing Arts Alumni Nobel laureates, government leaders, judges, scientists, writers, scholars, journalists, entertainers—Dartmouth alumni have distinguished themselves in all fields. Here are some notable alumni in the arts and performing arts making a difference in the world. Learn More About Our Alumni Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Tom Beale ’00 Major: Studio Art & English A dual degree in Studio Art and English led Tom Beale to a career as an acclaimed sculptor—shortly after graduating from Dartmouth he became the youngest winner of the National Endowment for the Arts’ Japan–United States Friendship Commission Creative Artists Fellowship. He also created Honey Space, a Chelsea gallery that received media acclaim for its unorthodox approach to curation. Marsha Stephanie Blake ’96 Major: Drama While a pre-med student at Dartmouth, Marsha took an acting class on a whim, and quickly fell in love with the craft. Her recent roles on Orange is the New Black, Girls, Getting On, and several other TV shows and films have brought her new fame outside of the world of theater, where she has long been acclaimed for roles on and off Broadway. Meg Houston Maker ’87 A&S’11 Major: Visual Studies An essayist and educator, Meg majored in visual studies at Dartmouth and returned for a MALS degree in creative writing. She now travels globally for research, publishing her insights in consumer and trade media and in Terroir Review, her own award-winning journal of nature, culture, food, and place. Steve Brosnihan ’83 Major: Visual Studies As resident cartoonist at Hasbro Children's Hospital in Rhode Island, Steve Brosnihan brings joy to patients during hard times. He drew cartoons for The Daily Dartmouth and has contributed to state and national publications. Currently he teaches his "Cartoonagrams" method in hospital and school settings and "conducts" Good Night Lights, a community project that involves blinking lights in support of hospitalized children. James Nachtwey '70, HON'10 Art History For the last three decades, James Nachtwey has documented war, famine, and disaster as a photojournalist for Time and for several agencies. His work has received numerous awards and has been displayed in solo exhibitions across the globe. James honed his adventuresome spirit at Dartmouth, where he skied and played rugby, and he recently donated his photographic archive to the College's Hood Museum of Art. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Study Art & Performing Arts Off Campus Select a Map Click to Open Study Art & Performing Arts Off Campus Basecamp to the World At Dartmouth, we have taken the traditional study abroad model, erased its boundaries, and expanded its parameters. Study abroad here is not an isolated semester in another country. Arranged through Dartmouth's Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education, these powerful learning experiences are enhanced through faculty mentorship. The curriculum and structure of the school year allow students to follow their research around the world. Dartmouth's Global Impact Click to stop viewing map. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Art Classes at Dartmouth Here are the courses my friends and I have taken to fulfill the distributive requirement for art. Read More Eda Naz Gokdemir 2025 Academics—the Dartmouth Difference 10 weeks, 3 classes, 40 departments and programs, 420 tenured and tenure-track professors—endless possibilities. Here's why I love academics at Dartmouth. Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 The Arts at Dartmouth – and having fun consuming them! The Arts at Dartmouth are awesome! We have all sorts going on around campus from dance shows to concerts – here are my experiences with them! Read More Luke Grayson 2025 A Glimpse into a Sophomore's Spring Courses Ever wonder what a typical Dartmouth student's classes look like? Every student's schedule is different, but here's a peek into the four courses I'm taking this term! Read More Sydney Wuu 2024 An ode to my theatre teachers! Theatre has been present in my life for s long as I can remember. So here is a shoutout to the professors who made me feel at home on the stage! Read More Antônio Jorge Medeiros Batista Silva 2025 To all STEM people: take a theatre class sometime! The liberal arts system allows for a lot of freedoms – especially at Dartmouth! Here is how I've been taking advantage of that this term. Read More Luke Grayson 2025 Becoming a Music Major Even though there is still plenty of time for me to decide upon my major, I have known for years that I wanted to major in music. However, you're probably thinking, "Hmm going to Dartmouth for music? That's weird." And yes! Yes, it is! Read More Chase Harvey 2025 Rockefeller Global Leadership Program's Trip to Boston This weekend, I took a bus down to Boston for an excursion sponsored by The Nelson A. Rockefeller Center for Public Policy and the Social Sciences, commonly referred to by students as "Rocky." Read More Sydney Wuu 2024 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Jump To: Major Click to Open Art History Film and Media Studies Music Studio Art Theater Back to top chevrons up Art History Bachelor of Arts Art History explores the visual cultures of diverse peoples, places, and times. Emphasizing critical, historical, and linguistic skills—as well as creativity and innovation—Art History offers a bridge between traditional, language-based fields in the humanities and the creative worlds of art, architecture, and performance. The study of Art History will change the way you see everything from paintings and statues to advertisements and other visual phenomena; it’s a way of looking at the world. At Dartmouth, students studying Art History gain analytical skills that encourage an inquiring approach to visual experience. In addition to training students for further study and employment in the discipline, the faculty equip all students with visual analysis, logical reasoning, critical reading, writing, and public speaking skills that serve them well in many academic disciplines or professions. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Film and Media Studies Bachelor of Arts Film and Media Studies blends coursework in the theory, history, and criticism of film, television, and new media with instruction in both screenwriting and production in film, video, animation, and gaming. That combination of analysis and creativity prepares students to apply diverse modes of thought as they seek deeper inquiry in a medium of their choice. The department of Film and Media Studies at Dartmouth empowers students to advance their understanding of the discipline by taking at least one course with a production component. Students are encouraged to both shape their emphasis of study and increase their breadth of understanding by taking at least one additional course relevant to their emphasis outside the department. Students may modify Film and Media Studies with another related discipline, and Film and Media Studies can be either the major or the minor in a modified major. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Music Bachelor of Arts There are as many different ways to study music as there are kinds of music to study. The study of music combines a range of classroom courses with opportunities for performance, concerts, festivals, colloquia, and masterclasses. Each mode of instruction brings together students, faculty, and artists-in-residence in a variety of roles. The Dartmouth Music department is at the cutting edge of music scholarship, thanks to an internationally acclaimed faculty of composers, performers, conductors, music theorists, historians, musicologists, and ethnomusicologists. Arts and artists flourish, musical journeys are launched and take unexpected turns, and exceptional resources—both human and institutional—support creative work. Students do not have to be music majors or minors to participate in the Hopkins Center ensembles or take the Music Department's Individual Instruction Program lessons. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Studio Art Bachelor of Arts The study of Studio Art offers students a serious and sustained exploration of the creative processes in visual art. Technical, perceptual and aesthetic issues are addressed in a historical and contemporary context. The Studio Art major at Dartmouth consists of architecture, drawing, painting, photography, printmaking, and sculpture. Each discipline’s dedicated page further details the classes taught in each area, introduces the faculty who teach them, and shares student work in each area. Classes in the department are structured so that students experience the creative process through a direct and dynamic engagement with visual media. Pedagogy is broad, with equal emphasis on representation and abstraction. Interdisciplinary investigations between studio areas and other departments are also encouraged. A required senior seminar serves as the culminating experience in the major. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Theater Bachelor of Arts Theater is a multidisciplinary form in which all of the arts and humanities intersect. Thus, the study of theater cultivates skills in collaborative, creative, and critical thinking. The theory and practice of theater are inseparable—and mutually beneficial—in this endeavor. The Dartmouth Theater Department provides students with a distinguished, challenging and integrated course of study in the history, literature, theory and practice of theater—both in the classroom and in production. The department’s curriculum prepares the serious theater student for graduate study, a professional career in theater, or both. Faculty members draw on both a depth of experience that spans both the academic and professional theatrical worlds, and they are committed to providing every student with close mentorship and individual attention to foster a deep and lifelong appreciation for theater. Related LinksClick to Open Department Website Graduation Requirements Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback