Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Medical School Admissions Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Search Medical School Admissions Student Life The Warren Alpert Medical School offers both the small, tight-knit community as well as the opportunity and activity of an Ivy League School in an exciting city. Breadcrumb Home Life at Brown Sub Navigation In This Section Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Office of Student Affairs The Office of Student Affairs strives to provide our students with a supportive learning environment, offering the advising and support that you need to grow as a future physicians. Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity & Multicultural Affairs The Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs promotes social responsibility, active engagement, and the well being of our communities in the pursuit of health equity. Office of Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Student Life The Warren Alpert Medical School offers both the small, tight-knit community as well as the opportunity and activity of an Ivy League School in an exciting city. Campus Life The Warren Alpert Medical School gives you the best of both worlds: a smaller, tight-knit community off College Hill, and all the opportunity and activity of an Ivy League school. Medical students have access to the Nelson Fitness Center, world-class libraries, and performing arts facilities. As part of the Brown University community, you can attend lectures by such luminaries as Jane Goodall, the Dalai Lama, and Paul Farmer. Brown offers innumerable ways to enrich your life outside of medicine. Granoff Center/Creative Arts Council The Granoff Center provides a full schedule of events across the arts, sciences, and humanities at Brown. Offerings include art exhibitions, film screenings, concerts—including the annual Alpert Medical School concert—and much more. Athletics and Recreation Brown's collegiate athletic program offers a packed schedule of events across 38 varsity teams. From basketball to equestrian, there's something for sports fans of every stripe. And medical students have plenty of opportunities to get active through Brown's physical education courses and intramural sports teams. Bell Gallery Founded in 1971, the David Winton Bell Gallery is Brown University's contemporary art gallery and home to the the University's 6,000-piece permanent art collection. The gallery stages several exhibitions a year, as well as student and faculty art shows. Life Outside Medicine We believe the secret to a successful medical school experience is balancing your studies with activities that help you decompress and exercise different parts of your brain—and your body. Our medical students run marathons, climb mountains, and cycle Rhode Island’s 100 miles of bike paths. They sing in professional chorales and play in symphonies, they swim and surf along the state's 400+ miles of coastline, they create hand-blown glass, and they dance Bhangra. Providence, the capital of Rhode Island and home to 170,000 people of diverse ethnic backgrounds, is a superlative city: it was named one of America’s Favorite Cities by Travel + Leisure. It’s easy to see why. Providence boasts thriving art and culinary scenes, with an eclectic mix of history and the avant garde. Travel + Leisure also named it one of the best cities for hipsters, but we promise you that’s part of its charm. You’ll find concerts, art exhibits, sporting events, and loads of restaurants for your entertainment. To read all about our historic city, explore upcoming events and things to do, and see why we're a foodie's dream destination, visit our Convention & Visitors Bureau's site. There's plenty to do and see right outside your door: World-famous Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) and its Museum of Art Tony Award-winning Trinity Repertory Theatre, Providence Performing Arts Center, and the Rhode Island Philharmonic Federal Hill, where you can sip espresso at an outdoor cafe or dine in style at a number of gourmet restaurants Fox Point, a lively neighborhood with art galleries and eclectic boutiques Office of Student Affairs The Office of Student Affairs strives to provide our students with a supportive learning environment, offering the advising and support that you need to grow as a future physicians. Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity & Multicultural Affairs The Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs promotes social responsibility, active engagement, and the well being of our communities in the pursuit of health equity. Office of Diversity & Multicultural Affairs Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Student Life Open details for Student Life Bookmark this Page