Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Tuition & Aid / Merit Scholarships custom css-js - global Merit Scholarships All applicants are automatically considered for partial tuition merit scholarships. Tulane also awards several full-tuition, total-cost, service, and Louisiana resident scholarships that require separate applications. The majority of merit scholarships are renewable for 4 years (or 5 years for architecture students), provided the student maintains good standing with the university, a full-time course load, and a designated minimum GPA. In order to continue receiving scholarships throughout a 4-year (5-year for Architecture) undergraduate career, students must continue to fulfill certain requirements. Partial Scholarships Our partial tuition scholarships, which range up to $32,000 per year, require no special application and are awarded by the admission office based on the strength of the admission application within the context of a given year's applicant pool. Full-Tuition Scholarships These awards seek to recognize superior high school performance, extremely competitive standardized test scores, exceptional community and secondary school involvement, and extraordinary intellectual promise. Deans' Honor Scholarship (DHS) To be considered: Submit a complete application for admission via Early Action or Early Decision Submit the separate scholarship application with creative project and teacher recommendation through your Green Wave Portal by December 5 Download the Deans’ Honor Scholarship Application Preparation (PDF) Winners are notified in late February Note: The winners of the Deans’ Honor Scholarship over the last 3 years had an ACT score greater than 31 or an SAT score greater than 1400. Paul Tulane Award To be considered: Submit a complete application for admission via Early Action or Early Decision Submit the separate scholarship application with essays through your Green Wave Portal by December 5 Download the Paul Tulane Award Application Preparation (PDF) Winners are notified in late February Note: The winners of the Paul Tulane Award over the last 3 years had an ACT score greater than 31 or an SAT score greater than 1400. Stamps Scholarship Recognizes and rewards exceptional students who exemplify leadership, perseverance, scholarship, service, and innovation Our most prestigious merit award Covers total cost of attendance and provides an enrichment fund to support endeavors such as study abroad, undergraduate research, academic or co-curricular conferences, and unpaid internships Made possible by generous funding by the Stamps Scholars Program - a nationally prestigious scholarship program - and fund matching by Tulane University Approximately 5 awarded each year To be considered: Submit a complete application for admission via Early Action or Early Decision Apply for the Deans' Honor Scholarship or Paul Tulane Award by December 5 Select finalists will be invited to interview in early spring Sotomayor Full-Tuition Public Service Scholarship Named in honor of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor, this scholarship is awarded to a student that has demonstrated high academic achievement and a commitment to public service. This is a four year, full-tuition merit scholarship awarded to one student per year. To be considered: Submit a complete Early Action or Early Decision application for admission Additional Scholarships Community Service Fellowship Rewards students who demonstrate high academic achievement as well as outstanding dedication to serving the community with leadership, passion, peer engagement, and resourcefulness Up to $20,000 per year merit-based scholarship May be combined with other merit awards up to the cost of tuition Approximately 15 awarded each year At Tulane, Community Service Fellows will Join a cohort of active and engaged Fellows on campus Attend monthly group meetings Complete an average of 100 service & leadership hours per year Learn to be dynamic leaders, community advocates, and service ambassadors Regularly access resources and guidance from the Center for Public Service To be considered: Submit a complete application for admission via Early Action or Early Decision Submit the separate scholarship application through your admission application status portal by December 5 Download the Community Service Fellowship Application Preparation Winners are notified in March Winners are notified by April 1 Musicianship Scholarship $5,000 per year merit-based award Reviewed by a committee of Newcomb Department of Music faculty members Requires submission of an application which contains a portfolio component Please refer to our Musicianship Scholarship Application Guidelines to see the parameters by concentration Students are only able to apply within one of the following concentrations: Jazz Studies, Music Composition, Music Performance (Instrumental), Music Performance (Vocal), and Musical Theatre To be considered: Students must already be accepted into Tulane University having designated any music concentration as either their first or second major Complete the Musicianship Scholarship application through your Green Wave Portal by February 15 If you are planning to visit campus before February 15th and would like to schedule an in-person audition with a music faculty member, please contact Angel Carter at acarte3@tulane.edu. Winners are notified in mid-March Architecture Portfolio Award One-time scholarship worth up to $10,000 Only open to admitted students who have applied Early Decision or Early Action and have designated Architecture as their first or second major on their Tulane application Requires submission of a digital portfolio through your Green Wave Portal Reviewed by Office of Undergraduate Admission and Tulane School of Architecture To be considered: Submit your digital portfolio immediately after you submit your application for admission Selected candidates will be invited to interview either in person or via Skype Winners are notified in March Questions about Architecture? Contact Bailey Gabrish at bgabrish@tulane.edu Louisiana Resident Scholarships There are additional scholarship opportunities available to Louisiana residents under Tulane's Focus Louisiana program. For more information, please visit our page dedicated to financial aid for Louisiana residents. International Student Scholarships There are additional scholarship opportunities available to students applying from outside the United States. For more information, please visit our page dedicated to financial aid for international students. Tulane University Marching Band (TUMB) TUMB merit scholarship awards are granted to participating members of the band, regardless of academic major. Awards of up to $2,000 per year renew as the student remains fully participating and is in good standing with the university. Audition requirements are available at www.tulaneband.org under “JOIN”. For more information, contact Barry Spanier, Director of Bands, at bspanier@tulane.edu. Cost of Attendance Merit Scholarships Need-Based Aid For Louisiana Residents FAQs for Louisiana Legislative Scholars Program FAQs for Mayoral Scholars Program Our Promise to Louisiana Net Price Calculator Did You Know? The A.B. Freeman School of Business was named in honor of Alfred Bird Freeman, former chair of the Louisiana Coca-Cola Bottling Co. and a prominent New Orleans philanthropist and civic leader. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University