Skip to main content Utility Navigation Visit Apply Ask COVID-19 Updates Main navigation Learning at Penn Living at Penn Admissions and Financial Aid Search Close Menu Close Search keywords Search Utility Navigation Visit Apply Ask COVID-19 Updates Secondary Navigation Desktop Student Stories Explore Penn Penn Admissions Blog For Parents & Families For Counselors Contact Admissions Main navigation Learning at Penn Major & Minors Specialized Degree Programs Inter-School Minors Submatriculation Undergraduate Schools College of Arts and Sciences Penn Engineering School of Nursing The Wharton School Our Faculty Penn Integrates Knowledge Civic Engagement Civic House Fox Leadership Program Netter Center for Community Partnerships Research and Learning Opportunities Undergraduate Research Scholars After Penn Living at Penn Art & Culture Athletics & Recreation Campus & Philadelphia Diverse Community Housing & Dining Penn Around the World Student Activities Student Support & Services Admissions and Financial Aid Visit Penn Tours and Information Sessions Workshops, Panels, & Events Student Connections Philadelphia Apply For Admission First-Year Admission Student Athletes International Applicants Undocumented Students Homeschool Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Admission International Applicants Student Athletes Costs & Financial Aid What Penn Looks For Comprehensive Review High School Preparation Testing Extracurricular Activities Letters of Recommendation Essays Interviews Supplementary Materials Admitted Student Profile Secondary Navigation Student Stories Explore Penn Penn Admissions Blog For Parents & Families For Counselors Contact Admissions Specialized Degree Programs Navigate Learning at Penn Specialized Degree Programs Inter-School Minors Submatriculation Explore the Coordinated Dual-Degree, Accelerated, and Specialized programs at Penn. Penn offers programs that allow you to obtain degrees with coursework from at least two different schools within the University. You can apply to these programs when you submit your application for first-year admission. Some of the programs will require additional essays as part of the application for admission. Coordinated Dual-Degree, Accelerated, and Specialized programs are highly selective, so you will be given the option to list a secondary choice of a single degree program if not offered admission to the specialized degree program. If you’re applying for Early Decision, you may choose to be considered as an Early Decision applicant for both the specialized degree and the single degree, or just for the specialized degree. Select programs require you to apply as a first-year, while others will accept internal applications from current undergraduates, space permitting. Prospective students who apply for first-year admission and are interested in one of these programs are encouraged to apply as a first-year, as internal transfer opportunities into these programs are not guaranteed. Some programs are open to external transfer students, others are not. Please see below for details regarding each program’s policies. For current Penn students considering an internal transfer, please see your academic adviser for more information. Specialized Degree Programs Bio-Dent: Seven Year Bio-Dental Program Students earn a BA in Biology from the College and Arts and Sciences and a DMD from the School of Dental Medicine. Students may only apply through the first-year application. Five additional short answer questions are required for the first-year application. No transfer students or internal applications will be accepted. https://www.bio.upenn.edu/undergraduate/submatriculation/accelerated-dental-pro… DMD: Digital Media Design Program Students earn a BSE from the School of Engineering and Applied Science, taking computer graphics coursework within the Computer and Information Science Department. Students also take required coursework in the Annenberg School for Communication and the School of Design. Students may apply through the first-year application or may declare the DMD major after their first-year if already enrolled in the School of Engineering and Applied Science. Students are encouraged to submit a portfolio. One additional essay is required for the first-year application. External transfer students are eligible to apply. http://cg.cis.upenn.edu/dmd_program.html Huntsman: The Huntsman Program in International Studies and Business Students earn a BA from the College of Arts and Sciences in International Studies and a BS in Economics from the Wharton School. Students may only apply through the first-year application. One additional essay is required for the first-year application. No transfer students or internal applications will be accepted. http://huntsman.upenn.edu/ LSM: The Roy and Diana Vagelos Program in Life Sciences and Management Students earn a BA from the College of Arts and Sciences in a life science major and a BS in Economics from the Wharton School. Students may apply through the first-year application or as internal transfers, space permitting. Two additional essays are required for first-year admission. External transfer students are not eligible to apply. http://lsm.upenn.edu/ M&T: The Jerome Fisher Program in Management and Technology Students earn a BS in Economics from the Wharton School and either a BSE or BAS from the School of Engineering and Applied Science. Students may apply through the first-year application or as internal transfers, space permitting. Two additional essays are required for the first-year application. External transfer students are not eligible to apply. https://fisher.wharton.upenn.edu/ NETS: The Rajendra and Neera Singh Program in Networked and Social Systems Engineering Students earn a BSE from the School of Engineering and Applied Science, taking required courses in Computer and Information Science and Electrical and Systems Engineering. Students also take required coursework in the College of Arts and Sciences in Mathematics, Economics, and Physics. Elective courses may be taken in the College of Arts and Sciences in humanities, natural science, and social science departments, and in the Wharton School in Statistics, Operations and Information Management, and Marketing. Students may apply through the first-year application or as internal transfers, space permitting. One additional essay is required for the first-year application. External transfer students are eligible to apply. https://www.nets.upenn.edu/ NHCM: Nursing and Health Care Management Students earn a BS in Nursing from the School of Nursing and a BS in Economics from the Wharton School. Students may apply through the first-year application or as internal transfers after their first-year. One additional essay is required for the first-year application. External transfer students are not eligible to apply. http://www.nursing.upenn.edu/nhcm/ VIPER: The Roy and Diana Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research Students earn a BA from the College of Arts and Sciences in Physics and Astronomy, Chemistry, Biology, or Mathematics, and a BSE from the School of Engineering and Applied Science in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Materials Science and Engineering, or Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics. Students may apply through the first-year application or as internal transfers, space permitting. One additional essay is required for the first-year application. External transfer students are not eligible to apply. http://www.viper.upenn.edu/ Continue to Inter-School Minors 1 College Hall, Room 1, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6376 Footer Menu Join the mailing list Contact Us Accessibility Privacy Policy NACAC Partnership Agreement