Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us Academics How to Apply Tuition & Aid Student Life Connect About Us Search Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply University of Miami Undergraduate Admission Apply School Counselor Hub AAA Welcome to UM's School Counselor Hub The University of Miami uses Slate.org to communicate with school counselors. This page covers how to set up an account, what tasks you can manage via Slate.org, as well as other helpful information. We look forward to working with you, and thank you for your continued partnership. Go to Slate.org Slate.org Portal FAQs Open All Tabs What is Slate.org? Slate.org is a free tool for school counselors, independent counselors, and community-based organizations to check the status of their students' admission applications. It also allows school counselors to easily and securely upload student application materials directly to colleges and universities. How does the University of Miami use Slate.org? For those who apply for admission in Fall 2021 and beyond, you will have 24/7 access via Slate.org to - view the application status of your students. - check in prior to deadlines to see if your University of Miami applicants are missing any required documents. - view your students' admission decisions. How do I create a Slate.org account? Visit Slate.org and click the registration link on the top toolbar. If you need help registering, contact Slate at info@slate.org. If you already have a Slate.org account, you will log in, search, and add the University of Miami to your account. For each school/organization, one representative will be designated to manage permissions and determine the components of the portal you want to use. What can I do/access on the Slate.org? In addition to using the platform to upload documents and view applicant status and decisions, you may also use Slate.org to advertise, schedule, and manage opportunities for admission counselors to visit your school. How will this work at my school/organization? You should coordinate with your colleagues to decide how your school/organization will use Slate.org. One member of your school/organization will be designated to manage permissions, and you can determine what other components of the tool you want to use. If you have previously submitted documents through the Common Application, you are pre-approved for a Slate.org account. Which documents can I upload through Slate.org? You can upload transcripts, recommendations, and other documents students need to complete a student's admission application. Why would I use Slate.org if my school/organization already uses Naviance or another platform to submit documents electronically? We prefer to receive documents electronically – via the Common Application, Naviance, SCOIR, Parchment, or a similar platform. Slate.org is simply another online option to submit application documents securely. If your school does not have access to electronic document submission, Slate.org will provide this functionality. Who do I contact if I have technical issues? Contact Slate.org at info@slate.org. Application Checklist & Deadlines Review our first-year admission checklist and deadlines, which also includes requirements for international applicants and special programs. The University of Miami will remain test optional for all students applying for Spring and Fall 2023. In addition, all Spring and Fall 2023 first-year applicants will be required to submit a 250 word supplemental essay that focuses on resilience with the Common Application. For all the details, visit admissions.miami.edu/testoptional. First-Year Requirements Options & Deadlines Document & Submission Forms You can use Slate.org to securely submit supporting documents. The PDF versions of the first-year application forms can be accessed below. Fee Waiver Homeschool Supplement to the School Report Final Report Early Decision Agreement Counselor Recommendation Teacher Evaluation School Report Mid Year Report Other Recommendation Connect With Us We look forward to working with you during the application process. You can find your assigned Admission Counselor on our Meet Our Staff page. Be sure to sign up for our Counselor Mailing List to receive updates and important information. MEET OUR STAFF Join Our Counselor Mailing List University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Undergraduate Admission 1306 Stanford Drive, Suite 1210 Coral Gables, FL 33146 TEL: 305-284-6000 TEL: 305-284-6000 FAX: 305-284-2507 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search myUM Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram tiktok Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback