Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Facilities You are here Home Academics Research & Learning Spaces Facilities About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Create, connect and collaborate in one of Temple’s research facilities. Most of Temple’s cutting-edge research is conducted in our state-of-the-art research facilities and learning spaces. Our research, collaborative and study spaces are designed to help you tailor your workspace to your needs, foster interdisciplinary connections and help you get to where you need to be. From business and science to the arts and social policy, Temple has the resources students need to study, get creative, spark ideas and innovation, work on projects with faculty and peers, conduct research, and make breakthrough discoveries. And, our facilities and learning spaces offer assistance and services to help you throughout your time here. Learning in the 21st Century Our state-of-the-art collaboration and study spaces are open 24/7, including those in the renowned Charles Library, our newest learning and research facility. Our Libraries All of Temple’s libraries support teaching, learning and research success. We rank among the top university research libraries in North America and hold membership in the prestigious Association of Research Libraries. Together, our libraries hold more than four million bound volume equivalents; care for thousands of special collections of rare books and primary archival sources; and provide a full range of services for students, faculty and community members. Ambler Campus Library The Ambler Campus Library houses scholarly resources available to undergraduate and graduate students in a variety of majors, including business, community development, criminal justice, education, horticulture and landscape architecture. Here, a collection of books, bound journals, reference materials and all electronic materials held by the library system can be accessed by students, faculty and staff. The library also includes an instruction lab with over 20 computers to be used for instruction or as an open computer lab, and a meeting room with an 80-inch screen for students to use for breakout sessions and individual quiet study. Learn more about the Ambler Campus Library. Charles Library Charles Library, one of the newest additions to our main campus, is where students gather to study, create and collaborate with their peers. The 220,000 square-foot building offers everything students need to push the boundaries of research, teaching and learning. Our interactive campus tour allows you the opportunity to see Charles Library for yourself and learn more about all it offers students. Located in Charles Library is the Loretta C. Duckworth Scholars Studio. The studio contains a variety of innovative technologies, including a makerspace with 3D printing capabilities, high-end computing and a virtual reality studio, allowing students to come together and take their research to the next level. Students can access study and group workspaces, computer rentals and technology that allows users to project digital content from personal devices. You can find a collection of high-demand volumes in Charles Library, as well as additional books available via our BookBot. Containing more than 1.5 million volumes, the BookBot is a state-of-the-art automated storage and retrieval system that delivers books and bound journals to a processing station when it receives a request by students, staff or faculty via our online catalog. If you’re a student who is learning remotely, you can still take advantage of all that our cutting-edge library has to offer. Many of its resources are online so you can access the materials you need to study, research and create—no matter where you are. Some of the virtual resources available include digital collections, ebooks and journals, remote librarian support, and video content collections. Learn more about Charles Library and the virtual library resources available to students. Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection The Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection is one of the nation's leading research facilities for the study of the history and culture of people of African descent. This collection of over 500,000 items has materials on the global black experience in all formats: books, manuscripts, sheet music, pamphlets, journals, newspapers, broadsides, posters, photographs, and rare ephemera. The collection features narratives by Sojourner Truth and Frederick Douglass, original works of Phyllis Wheatley and W.E.B. DuBois, Paul Robeson’s sheet music, the John W. Mosley Collection, documenting life in and around Philadelphia from African American perspective, and various writings of Haitian Revolutionaries. Learn more about Blockson Collection. Health Sciences Libraries The Health Sciences Libraries are home to state-of-the-art labs, equipment and facilities utilized by students in Dentistry, Pharmacy, Podiatry and College of Public Health programs. Located in the Medical Education Research Building, students have access to study and collaboration spaces, as well as the chance to experience the types of facilities they will encounter in their various medical fields, including an athletic training clinical education lab. Learn more about the Health Sciences Libraries. More Learning and Research Spaces Explore some of our research facilities, labs and other learning spaces. You’ll see the spaces intended to help you with your coursework, realize your big ideas and much more. IDEAS Hub Temple’s 8,000 square-foot Innovation, Design, Engineering and Applied Science (IDEAS) Hub provides students with the tools needed to make wavelengths in the world of engineering. In collaboration with the College of Engineering, the IDEAS Hub gives students and faculty access to a variety of technologies, including 3D printing, motion capture and drone stations to robotics and soldering and circuitry. Learn more about the IDEAS Hub. Presser Hall and Rock Hall Presser Hall and Rock Hall are where students in the Boyer College of Music and Dance call home. Both facilities include practice rooms, rehearsal spaces, music labs and more. Presser Hall provides students with various practice spaces and equipment, from four Steinway model pianos, to a three-room recording studio, to rooms with sound-proof technology and virtual acoustic environments. The 54 practice rooms are available 24 hours a day during the academic year, so students can train at any time. Rock Hall is home to practice rooms, music computer labs, and ensemble rehearsal rooms where Boyer students can strengthen their musical abilities. With an auditorium that seats over 300 people, includes surround sound and Panasonic video projection, students here can perform recitals and concerts, create and record music and continue to sharpen their skills. They can also continue to practice in Rock Hall’s audition room, green room, and harpsichord- and harp-dedicated rooms. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance facilities. Science, Education and Research Center (SERC) Temple’s Science Education and Research Center (SERC) features 250,000 square feet of space dedicated to education and interdisciplinary research. With cutting-edge communications, safety and state-of-the-art technologies available in labs and classrooms, students have endless opportunities to learn, explore and conduct research in various scientific fields. Its open floor plans foster interdisciplinary interactions and cooperation. At SERC, you’ll find multidisciplinary research centers and institutes like the Institute for Computational Molecular Science, and areas of study such as bioinformatics, computer science, genomics, material science and structural biology. Learn more about SERC. TECH Center The TECH Center (Teaching, Education, Collaboration, Help) contains a wide variety of workspaces where students can learn, study and work collaboratively or individually. The 75,000-square-foot, dynamic facility provides students with resources that are adapted for current learning styles. The TECH Center offers students breakout rooms, full-service printing, laptop and tablet loans, recording booths, 24-hour help desk, and more. Take a look around the TECH Center through our interactive tour of Main Campus or learn more about the space, which is one of the largest computer labs of its kind. Tomlinson Theater Tomlinson Theater is a 425-seat proscenium theater utilized by students and faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance and School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Located in Mitten Hall, Tomlinson’s key features include a proscenium stage, orchestra pit, full light plot, full light and soundboard, attached scene shop and rehearsal/studio dance space for students to practice. Learn more about the Tomlinson Theater. 1810 Liacouras Walk 1810 Liacouras Walk is a 77,000 square feet facility designed for students from Fox School of Business. With six floors of a variety of learning spaces, students have access to resources for teaching, research, executive education, mentoring and outreach efforts. The building is home to resources such as the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Institute and the 1810 Accelerator, as well as collaborative coworking spaces and new classrooms with transformative technology. Students can also find the Tutoring Center, the Business Communications Center and state-of-the-art research labs here. Learn more about 1810 Liacouras Walk and other learning spaces for Fox School of Business. Owls in Action With Temple’s variety of facilities and learning spaces, the possibilites are endless. See how students utilize the different spaces across our campuses. Photo Gallery View slideshow as list Close 1/10 Two physics students examining equipment while conducting an experiment. 2/10 A group of students brainstorming in Temple's IDEAS Hub. 3/10 Public health students studying while keeping social distance. 4/10 A Boyer student editing his music in a studio in Presser Hall. 5/10 Students utilizing the Virtual Reality equipment in Charles Library Makerspace. 6/10 Students studying solo in the IDEAS Hub. 7/10 Business students collaborating in a study space in 1810 Liacouras Walk. 8/10 Students working together in one of Temple's computer labs. 9/10 A Boyer student practicing her music on the piano. 10/10 A group of students gather for an evening study session in Charles Library. Two physics students examining equipment while conducting an experiment. A group of students brainstorming in Temple's IDEAS Hub. Public health students studying while keeping social distance. A Boyer student editing his music in a studio in Presser Hall. Students utilizing the Virtual Reality equipment in Charles Library Makerspace. Students studying solo in the IDEAS Hub. Business students collaborating in a study space in 1810 Liacouras Walk. Students working together in one of Temple's computer labs. A Boyer student practicing her music on the piano. A group of students gather for an evening study session in Charles Library. Back to Main Academics Go back to AcademicsMore in Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info