Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Admissions Events We offer a few premier events throughout the year to help you learn what life is like as a part of the Wolfpack. Pack on the Prowl We travel all across the state, country and world to recruit future members of the Wolfpack. See when NC State admissions representatives are available to connect with you through virtual and in-person college fairs and school visits. See where to find us 3,700+ University Open House attendees in 2021 University Open House Our biggest event of the year for prospective students is offered annually in October. This is your opportunity to learn about the many opportunities the university has to offer. Representatives from admissions, academic colleges, student support services and current NC State students will be available to give you an inside look at the Wolfpack community. Pack Preview Invitation-Only Event Offered in spring and fall, we host this event in a few locations around North Carolina to provide students from underrepresented populations an opportunity to get to know NC State in a more intimate setting. This is your opportunity to connect with admissions officers, academic college representatives and current students to learn more about the NC State student experience and community. Attendees also walk away with resources to assist in planning for college and how to be competitive at NC State. Register here Submit the Interest Form Want to receive communications about upcoming NC State admissions events? Submit our interest form to stay in the know. Sign me up Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.