Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home Tallahassee Tallahassee The state capital of Florida, Tallahassee, roughly translated as "old fields" or "old town" from the Muskogean Indian language, is a vibrant community full of natural beauty and a thriving culture. With its rolling hills and canopy roads, Tallahassee is anything but what most people imagine when they think of Florida. Nestled among massive southern live oak trees dripping with Spanish moss, our beautiful college town is simultaneously a respite from the hectic big cities and a lively community full of creativity. Here are just a few things we love about Tallahassee. Engaged & Involved As Florida's seat of government, Tallahassee is brimming with opportunities for civic engagement. If you're looking for a future in politics, internships are available in numerous branches of both state and local government. Florida State's Center for Leadership & Social Change and Leon County's Volunteer Services are great ways to get involved and help give back to the community. Those who want to make a difference on campus can find their place in the FSU Student Government Association. Tree City, USA Tallahassee is known for its trees. From majestic live oaks to tropical palms, we're surrounded by them. We take great pride in our city's natural beauty, for it has a lot to offer. A stroll through Alfred B Maclay Gardens State Park will offer plenty of fantastic photo ops. The beautiful Cascades Park, in the heart of the city and just minutes from campus, is perfect for a jog. Known to some as "Trailahassee", the region also offers numerous hiking and biking opportunities. When the summer sun is high, nothing can beat a dive into the cool waters of Wakulla Springs just south of town, or a tubing trip down one of the nearby rivers. Curated+Produced by Street Art Tallahassee. Photography by Mallory Brooks Creative Capital Being both a college town and state capital, Tallahassee is booming with arts and culture. Some of the city's more famous museums include the Museum of Florida History, the outdoor Tallahassee Museum, and the Tallahassee Automobile Museum whose collection includes Abraham Lincoln's horse drawn hearse and two Batmobiles. In and around downtown, you'll find all sorts of unique street art celebrating the city and state culture. On the First Friday of each month, the Railroad Square Art Park comes alive for a lively gallery hop. Music fans will find venues of all sizes, from the intimate confines of FSU's Club Downunder to the open-air amphitheater at Cascades Park. Tallahassee Arts Guide Tally Top Ten Take in the view from the observation deck at the top of the Capitol. Walk, jog, or bike down the Capital Cascades Trail, right through the heart of the city. Check out the arts during First Friday at Railroad Square. Dine and shop in the new College Town & Gaines Street districts. Drive down one of the many historic canopy roads. See incredible performances during the Opening Nights performing arts festival. Take a tree-to-tree zip-line tour of the Tallahassee Museum. Jump off the high-dive into the cool, clear waters of Wakulla Springs. See some hot-rods at the Tallahassee Automobile Museum. Cheer on the Seminoles! Foodie Favorites Tallahassee's creative character extends into the world of food as well. The city is packed with unique and delicious options for every meal of the day. Here are just a few of our office's favorites. Lucky Goat Coffee - Start your day with a caffeine kick courtesy of this local bean roaster, offering everything from hand-made lattes to on-tap cold brew. You can even grab a bag of beans from the shop and brew it yourself. Wells Brothers Bar & Grill - A favorite of FSU students, and home to one of the most deliciously decadent burgers you'll ever bite into - the bacon and peanut butter topped "Lip Smacker". Gaines Street Pies - Located on the recently-revived Gaines Street, this pizza place is packed with hungry students enjoying cleverly named pies loaded with toppings such as "The Metal Mike" and "Foxy Cleopatra". Don't forget the garlic knots! Sweet Pea Café - With a focus on local, sustainable, vegan fare, Sweet Pea serves up eats for the Earth-conscious diner including their delicious vegan poutine and homemade baked goods. Voodoo Dog - Dripping with kitschy punk style, this place is famous for their crazy hot dogs, including the bacon-wrapped, mac-n-cheese topped dog known simply as "The Jefferson". Bella Bella - A favorite of ours for a romantic date night, serving up delicious homemade Italian classics in their cozy midtown location. Gordo's Cuban Café - Tallahassee is about as far away from Miami as you can get without leaving the state, so thankfully we have Gordo's to provide our many students from south Florida with a taste of home. Cabo's Island Grill - A true Tallahassee original where you can enjoy a delicious burger, massive burrito, or fresh-from-Florida seafood while soaking in the surf-rock atmosphere. Quick Links Seminole Tribe Land Acknowledgement College & Career Planning Tool Career Center FSU Highlights Apply Online Visit Us Publications Check Your Application Status Application Changes Form Residency Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Professional Licensure Transfer Student Services Aspire TCC2FSU Program FSU-Panama City Campus The Graduate School Student Veterans Center Office of Accessibility Services Student Profiles "My extracurricular activities were essential to my undergraduate experience at Florida State - there is more to the collegiate experience than just academics!" Amanda Schell Statistics & International Affairs "Being an NOAA Ernest Hollings F. Scholar gave me the opportunity to travel across the country and meet and work with many respected professionals in our field." Connor Dacey Meteorology "I got to work with first-year students - and introduce them to leadership and getting involved with the community." Brian Menard Psychology Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University.