Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Integrity in the Application Process Breadcrumb Home Applying to Brown How to Apply Sub Navigation In This Section Keeping Track of Your Application Tips for Completing Your Application Getting Help Ivy League Joint Statement of Admissions Eligibility Guidelines Integrity in the Application Process Extenuating Circumstances & Extensions Integrity in the Application Process The Common Application requires each student to affirm that their application provides an accurate representation of their personal narrative, accomplishments, academic and extracurricular work. The statement students are asked to acknowledge is as follows: I certify that all information submitted in the admission process — including this application and any other supporting materials — is my own work, factually true, and honestly presented, and that these documents will become the property of the institution to which I am applying and will not be returned to me. I understand that I may be subject to a range of possible disciplinary actions, including admission revocation, expulsion, or revocation of course credit, grades, and degree should the information I have certified be false. In the spirit of this statement, and as part of our ongoing effort to deter application fraud, the Office of College Admission verifies a small number of credentials each year for a randomly selected sample of admitted students who have chosen to matriculate at Brown. The verification process is straightforward, with school counselors being asked to confirm a few selected factors as reported on the application for each student included in the sample group. Requests are sent to counselors in May with a July response deadline. While only a small percentage of students are considered in the verification process each year, it is important to note that those who are designated need not worry. There is no particular concern regarding honesty in these randomly selected cases. This process is intended to ensure the continued integrity of the admission process through proactive verification to deter admission fraud. Criminal History Question During our initial round of admission application reviews, Brown will suppress student responses to the criminal history question. Only after selecting a pool of admitted candidates will we review responses to this question. With this approach, information on criminal history can inform, but not determine, admission decisions. This ensures that applicants are evaluated on their academic profile, extracurricular pursuits and potential fit, while also enabling us to continue to review this potentially important information. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Integrity in the Application Process Open details for Integrity in the Application Process Bookmark this Page