Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission QuestBridge Frequently asked questions about QuestBridge Breadcrumb Home Frequently Asked Questions Will I be interviewed as part of the Match process? Brown does not offer interviews as part of the application process. QuestBridge Match applicants, like all applicants to Brown, are encouraged to submit a video introduction as an opportunity to tell us more about yourself, in your voice, beyond the information you providee in your application. Can I apply to Brown through the College Match program if I am not a US citizen? All students who meet QuestBridge's criteria to apply to Brown through the College Match will be considered for admission regardless of citizenship. How can I have my application fee waived? There is no fee to apply to the College Match process for QuestBridge Finalists. We will waive the $75 application fee for all other QuestBridge Finalists. You do not need to submit any additional paperwork. QuestBridge Non-Finalists may still qualify for the fee waiver by request. Brown University does not offer waivers for College Scholarship Service (CSS) Profile application; however, you may qualify for an automatic fee waiver through the College Board when completing the online application. If you qualify, you will be offered the waiver when selecting your payment method. Can my high school counselor send in my test scores? Brown is test optional for this year's admission cycle. If you would like to share scores with us, you are welcome to self-report them through your application or upload them via the Brown Applicant Portal. Your high school counselor may also share scores with us on your behalf. Admitted students who submitted unofficial test scores and choose to matriculate at Brown will be asked to submit offical scores following their confirmation of enrollment. How will I be notified if I match with Brown? QuestBridge will contact you directly in early December if you have been matched with Brown. We will contact you shortly thereafter with an official letter of admission and your financial aid award. If I am a College Match finalist and do not match with Brown, can I still apply through the Regular Decision process? We strongly encourage you to apply to Brown through our Regular Decision process. Please note that if you successfully match with a school that has a binding admission offer, you are not eligible for consideration in Brown's Regular Decision process. It is important to check with your match school to be sure you understand the terms of your match. If I am not named a finalist in the College Match Program, may I apply to Brown? Whether or not you are named a finalist in the College Match Program, we welcome your application to Brown and look forward to getting to know you through the information you will share with us. More information about our application process is available on our website. Will I still receive financial aid if I do not match with Brown in the College Match process but am admitted later in the Regular Decision process? Regardless of the process through which you apply, Brown meets the full demonstrated need of all admitted students. Brown's generous financial aid policies are intended to make Brown accessible to families of all income levels and allow students to graduate with no or minimal loan debt. Additional financial aid application materials will also be required to be considered for financial aid during the Regular Decision Process. Please refer to the Office of Financial Aid for more information. Can I be admitted to Brown's Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME) as part of the Match program? Yes. If you are matched with Brown through QuestBridge, we will then consider your application to the PLME during the Early Decision process. Be sure to answer the PLME questions in the Brown Questionnaire in your portal. Please note, however, that if you are matched with Brown but not selected for the PLME, you are still committed to attend Brown, and your PLME candidacy will be reconsidered during the Regular Decision process. Both QuestBridge finalists (scholars) who do not list Brown as a match school and non-finalists who apply in Brown's Early or Regular Decision cycles using the Common Application can choose to apply to the PLME by answering the PLME questions. Can I be admitted to the Brown|RISD Dual Degree program as part of the Match program? The admission review for the Brown|RISD Dual Degree will occur in the spring, after the conclusion of the Match process. Final decisions will be shared in late March or early April upon the release of Regular Decision offers of admission. Both QuestBridge finalists (Scholars) and non-Finalists who apply in Brown's Early or Regular Decision cycles may choose to apply to this five-year program by completing the corresponding section of the Brown Questions on the Common Application. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search QuestBridge Open details for QuestBridge Bookmark this Page