Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Undergraduate Office of Admissions Menu Search Log In Why Nebraska Majors Career Connections Social Connections Academic Life Visit Nebraska Visit Lincoln Apply Admissions Requirements Enrollment Deposit Cost & Aid Scholarship Statement Nebraska Promise Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes Contact Us Information for… First Generation Students High Ability Students International Students LGBTQA+ Students Native American Students Nebraska Now School Counselors Students with Disabilities Transfer Students Undergraduate Online Programs Underrepresented Minorities Veteran and Active Military Students Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Admissions Visit Nebraska Visit Nebraska Don’t Wait to Meet Your Future Resources Opportunities Tools Creations Mentors Home Collaborators Connect with Us Visiting campus is the best way to get a preview of all you can accomplish at Nebraska. During your visit, you’ll tour campus with a current Nebraska student as your guide, explore your academic future and learn more about student involvement opportunities. Husker Weekday Juniors, Seniors, Transfers In Person Icon In-Person Calendar Icon Most Weekdays Clock Icon Half Day Get more info on admission requirements, academics, student life and value at Nebraska. You and your guests will tour campus with a current student as your guide. After tour, meet with an academic college representative during an academic appointment. Space is limited. Learn More & Register COVID-19 Event Information As it has done throughout the pandemic, the University of Nebraska–Lincoln continues to follow the most recent guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Lincoln-Lancaster County Health Department. The Lincoln-Lancaster County Health Department no longer requires face masks in all indoor spaces. Face masks are now optional in all indoor spaces on the University of Nebraska–Lincoln campus in accordance with local guidance. Please note—we will inform you of any change in the current directed health measure in a final details email prior to the event. Large Group Visits Extracurricular Visit for Community Groups & Organizations Inspire student-members of your organization to pursue higher education with a group visit that includes a campus tour, information on academic programs and a look at what life is like at Nebraska. Learn More Preview Campus Check out our virtual tour videos to preview spaces on campus where students live, study and collaborate. Plan Your Trip to Lincoln Nebraska is the place where you can stretch your strengths, build a strong foundation for success and make 1-to-1 connections with your professors and peers. The resources, opportunities and experiences you need to move your future forward are all right here. Ready to plan your campus visit? Visit Lincoln Join Our Mailing List We'll send you personalized information about joining our community of doers, thinkers and creators—including details on your major of interest, scholarships and more. Your Contact Information Your First Name * Your Last Name * Your Email * You are a: * ... High School Freshman High School Sophomore High School Junior High School Senior Military/Veteran College Transfer Parent Next Right-Pointing Double Angle Quotation Mark Contact Us Address Map Pin Office of Admissions 1410 Q Street Lincoln, NE 68588-0417 US Office Hours Clock 8:00AM–5:00PM M–F Phone Phone 402-472-2023 Fax Fax Machine 402-472-0670 Email Envelope admissions@unl.edu Related Links Transfer Student Military Student Diversity Student First Generation Student International Student School Counselors Student Jobs Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.