Skip to main content Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Connect Visit Apply Search Search Menu Menu Search for: Search Clear Search Close Search Our StudentsToggle Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus LifeToggle Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Connect Visit Apply Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Beyond Campus Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Beyond Campus Education in the Real World At Duke, we believe that the education you get outside of the classroom is just as important as the learning you do in it. That’s why service-learning, community engagement, and studying away—both domestically and abroad—are woven into the fabric of the Duke experience. Service-Learning Learning with local impact Duke service-learning brings classroom learning to life through community engagement opportunities that serve the public good by providing a needed service to individuals, organizations, schools, or other entities in the community. These programs cut across departments and foster collaboration between faculty, students, and the community. Learn More About Service-Learning Service-Learning 90 courses offered Service-Learning Story A new friend How a service-learning class sparked an unexpected friendship. READ THE STORY Learn More All Student Stories Service-Learning at Duke Duke Gap Year Program Open DukeEngage Immersive Opportunities DukeEngage is a fully funded summer program that prepares students to make real impact in places across the U.S. and abroad. Students are placed in communities worldwide for a minimum of eight weeks, during which they work to help address critical human needs through a range of civic engagements, including environmental advocacy, community outreach, global health, education, social justice, and more. Learn More About Dukeengage Global Impact 1.6 Million hours volunteered by Duke students through DukeEngage Duke-in Distinctively Duke Experiences Duke-In provides domestic and international opportunities for students to study with or alongside Duke faculty in more than 41 locations around the world to earn Duke credits and grades. All Duke-In programs deliver high-caliber academics, a strong support system, and the chance to integrate intellectual inquiry into a mosaic of cultural and personal experiences. Learn More About Studying Away Global Education 41 Duke-In programs on six continents Studying Away Story Growing Circles The trip abroad that changes one student's life back on campus. READ THE STORY Duke Gap Year Program Reflect, explore, and grow There are few opportunities in life to take a meaningful amount of time to reflect and explore. With this in mind, we launched the Duke Gap Year Program to provide financial support to admitted students who are interested in taking a year away before enrolling. Learn more about Duke gap Year Program Skijler, a Duke Gap Year student backpacking in Auvillar, France. Our Students 01 Campus Life 02 Financial Support 03 Join Our Mailing List Sign Up Our Students Academic Possibilities Student Stories Campus Life Your First Year Academic Life School Spirit and Community Beyond Campus Financial Support © DUKE.EDU 2022 Counselors Families Resources FAQs Contact Disable Animations