MENU Search Campus Search Site Search Campus Main Menu Apply Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate International Undergraduate Admission Standards High School University Program UOnline Utah Asia Campus Visit Virtual Campus Tour Virtual Events Track Your Application Admitted Students Confirm Your Intent to Enroll Financial Aid & Costs International English Proficiency Application Deadlines I-20 Information Avoid I-20 Delays Residency Meet your Counselors Meet the Team Request Info High School Counselors Prior Learning Credit Advanced Placement Credit College Level Examination Program (CLEP) Credit DSST Credit International Baccalaureate Credit Deferment Appeals Veterans Utah Futures Frequently Asked Questions Project Request Form Accessibility Menu Jump To: Select Section Site Navigation Search This Site Search University of Utah Main Content Footer More Pages: Select PageApplyFreshmenTransfer StudentsGraduateInternationalUndergraduate Admission StandardsHigh School University ProgramUOnlineUtah Asia CampusVisitVirtual Campus TourVirtual EventsTrack Your ApplicationAdmitted StudentsConfirm Your Intent to EnrollFinancial Aid & CostsInternationalEnglish ProficiencyApplication DeadlinesI-20 InformationAvoid I-20 DelaysResidencyMeet your CounselorsMeet the TeamRequest InfoHigh School CounselorsPrior Learning CreditAdvanced Placement CreditCollege Level Examination Program (CLEP) CreditDSST CreditInternational Baccalaureate CreditDefermentAppealsVeteransUtah FuturesFrequently Asked QuestionsProject Request Form Accessibility Help Press ctrl + / to access this menu. The University of Utah Admissions Graduate GRADUATE STUDENTS COVID-19 INFORMATION FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS COVID-19 FAQ Graduate applicants to the University of Utah are students who have completed the equivalent of a U.S. four-year Bachelor’s degree at a regionally accredited U.S. institution. All prospective graduate students, including University of Utah seniors, apply for admission through the University of Utah ApplyYourself online application system, found at each graduate program’s website. Domestic applicants are recommended to submit their application 30 days before the department/program deadline. International applicants should apply at least 90 days in advance. A comprehensive list of the over 100 Masters and Doctoral programs offered at the University of Utah. Comprehensive Graduate Program List APPLICATION PROCESS All graduate applicants to the University of Utah must meet the following minimum Graduate School requirements: - A bachelor's degree from a regionally-accredited U.S. college or university. The Office of Admissions will determine if an applicant’s degree meets the Graduate School's requirement of a recognized Bachelor's degree. - At least a 3.0 or higher undergraduate weighted mean GPA on a 4.0 scale. If the undergraduate GPA is below 3.0, a GPA will be calculated based upon the last 60 semester hours (90 quarter hours) if the student attended a U.S. institution. - Meet the academic department’s admission standards and receive a recommendation for admission to their program. Apply Graduate applicants access the online application directly through their department’s website. Pay the Application Fee - The non-refundable graduate application fee for applicants is $55. Applications submitted after the application deadline will incur an additional $30 late fee, even if an academic department has a later deadline. Applications are not complete until the application fee has been paid. Please do not send cash. - Some academic programs cover the cost (or the partial cost) of the application fee for their applicants. Please check the department’s website to determine the exact application fee. McNair Scholars are eligible to have their application fee waived, but they must upload proof of status to the online graduate application. Upload all required documents - Applicants must upload a copy of all post-secondary transcripts to their application. These transcripts will be used as working copies during the admissions evaluation process. Failure to list all schools previously attended or making false or misleading statements on the application may result in cancellation of admission status and/or loss of credit. - Transcripts for all post-secondary schools attended. - In addition to academic transcripts, applicants must upload any additional documents required by the academic department/program. Examples of items frequently requested by departments include: 1. Letters of Recommendation 2. Statement of Purpose 3. Resume/CV 4. Test Scores, such as the GRE or GMAT. - The University of Utah ETS code is 4853. The Office of Admissions does not have a department code. Departments may require test scores sent directly to their department code. Please check the department's website for additional information. - Unofficial transcripts are acceptable to complete the admissions application and can be scanned or e-mailed directly to graduate@utah.edu. - Before starting classes at the University of Utah, students must submit an official copy of their post secondary school transcript and proof of graduation directly to the Office of Admissions. - Official printed transcripts can be dropped off in a closed envelope sealed with adhesive at the International Admissions service window in the Student Services Building (SSB) or mailed to: The University of Utah Office of Admissions 201 South 1460 East, Room 250s Salt Lake City, UT 84112 USA *Please do not send official transcripts via email or fax as they will not be accepted as official. - If your school uses the following electronic transcript services they will be considered official: - Credentials Solutions - Parchment/Naviance - National Student Clearing House - eScrip-Safe *When requesting your transcripts using any of these services please use this email admisstranscripts@utah.edu. Complete and Submit the Application The University of Utah will evaluate an application only after we receive all required fees and documents, including transcripts and proof of English proficiency. All documents submitted to the University of Utah become its property and will not be released to students or other institutions. Track Your Application Status Your application will be evaluated once we receive a completed application, application fee, and all required documentation. The status of your application can be tracked here. Please allow 7-10 business days for the online tracker to reflect newly received materials. GRADUATE Deadlines Graduate applicants must meet both their department deadlines and the Office of Admissions deadlines listed below. Please check your department’s website to confirm your program-specific deadline. The University of Utah accepts graduate applications for the spring semester, summer term and fall semester. However, not all graduate programs have open enrollment for each term. The general graduate deadlines are listed below, but many programs have deadlines that are earlier than those listed. Spring NOV 1 Application Deadline JAN 10 Classes Start Summer MAR 15 Application Deadline MAY 16 Classes Start Fall APR 1 Application Deadline AUG 22 Classes Start APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS 1. Academic departments/programs review applications. - Once the academic department/program admissions committee decides what applicants they want to recommend for admission, the academic department/program will complete the department’s referral form advising the University Office of Admissions of their admission decisions. 2. Office of Admissions processes referrals, reviews qualifications and notifies applicants. - Once academic departments/programs complete the Department Referral form, the University Office of Admissions will do a final review of all applicants to determine that the applicants meet the Graduate School admissions requirements. - If the applicants meet all admissions criteria and the academic department/program has recommended them for admission to their respective degree program, the Office of Admissions will complete the admission processes and notify the applicants. - The Official Letter of Acceptance for applicants that are admitted will be sent by postal mail from the University Office of Admissions. 3. Notification of an admissions decision. - When a decision has been posted in an applicant’s ApplyYourself account, an email will be sent advising the applicant to sign in to their ApplyYourself account to view the decision. Admitted students can find their next steps here. Continuous Registration Requirement & Leave of ABSENCE An offer of acceptance is valid only for the semester the applicant is admitted. If an applicant does not attend during his/her admitted term, the applicant must reapply through the ApplyYourself online graduate admissions application and pay the application fee before the application deadline for the semester he/she wishes to begin. Once admitted and enrolled, graduate students are required by the Graduate School policy to maintain continuous registration during the academic year of fall and spring semesters. - If a graduate student must “stop out,” he/she should file for a Leave of Absence through their academic program/department. Review the form that must be completed. - Students failing to maintain continuous registration and who have not been granted an official leave of absence will be discontinued in their graduate program. Readmitting to your graduate program Graduate School Policy states that graduate students are required to maintain continuous registration and must acquire permission from their Graduate Department for a "Leave of Absence" before leaving the University. A graduate student who fails to register for a term (excluding summer term) and does not file for a leave of absence is immediately made ineligible to register for future terms. - Continuing students that have been discontinued will be required to apply for readmission into their graduate program. - If you are a previous graduate student that did not maintain continuous registration in your academic program, you must reapply through the ApplyYourself online graduate admissions application found at each graduate program's website. Begin the ApplyYourself application process. Non-Degree Seeking Students Students who do not qualify for admission to graduate studies or non-degree-seeking students may enroll in graduate-level courses on a non-degree seeking basis. Credits earned by non-degree seeking students may or may not apply to a graduate degree program. Graduate programs are designed and approved by faculty committees assigned to supervise each graduate student. Decisions on accepting course credit are made initially by these supervisory committees. Only nine semester hours of non-matriculated credit, taken no more than three years prior to approval, can be applied toward a graduate degree. Non-matriculated and second baccalaureate students registering for one or more graduate-level courses in their undergraduate career will be charged graduate tuition rates for all courses taken. Read more about how to apply as a non-matriculated student. QUICK LINKS Quick Links Home Apply Visit | Virtual Events Track Your Application Request Info Contact Us Resources Academic Department Resources Dashboard High School Counselors COVID-19 FAQ Project Request Form Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Office of Admissions 201 S. 1460 E. ROOM 250 S SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84112 801-581-8761 © 2022 The University of Utah Privacy Policy | Disclaimer | Nondiscrimination & Accessibility