Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Live Q&A with Brown Admission and a Current Student Connect with admission officers and current students to get answers to your questions. Breadcrumb Home Visit Brown Live Q&A with Brown Admission and a Current Student Connect with admission officers and current students to get answers to your questions. The Live Q&A Sessions offer a chance to ask questions directly to our admission officers and current students. These sessions offer you an interactive opportunity to address specific questions you may have about Brown University. We encourage you to attend a hosted virtual campus tour and watch our recorded information session prior to attending a Live Q&A Session. Please note that we are not able to accommodate private virtual campus visits for large groups at this time. If you are interested in virtually visiting campus with a group, each visitor is welcome to register individually for a hosted virtual tour or Live Q&A session at times that work for them. You are also welcome to view the virtual tour at any time that is convenient for your group. Have questions? Connect with admission officers and current students in one of our Live Q&A Sessions. REGISTER HERE Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Live Q&A with Brown Admission and a Current Student Open details for Live Q&A with Brown Admission and a Current Student Bookmark this Page