Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site A Liberal Arts Education Art & Science Breadth & Depth Yale is committed to the idea of a liberal arts education through which students think and learn across disciplines, liberating or freeing the mind to its fullest potential. The essence of such an education is not what you study, but the result: gaining the ability to think critically and independently and to write, reason, and communicate clearly – the foundation for all professions. Yale graduates in all majors are prepared to serve in positions of leadership in every imaginable field. Use the Yale College Outcomes Interactive Tool, hosted by the Office of Career Strategy to explore the diversity of experiences recent graduates have pursued. There are no specific classes you must take at Yale, but you are required to learn broadly and deeply. Depth is covered in your major. Breadth is covered in three study areas (the humanities and arts, the sciences, and the social sciences) and three skill areas (writing, quantitative reasoning, and foreign language). A Yale education instills in students the values, goals, skills, and knowledge they need to pursue inspiring work, to take joy in lifelong learning, and to lead successful and meaningful lives. Choosing a Major Yale encourages students to let their choice of major be shaped by their academic experiences here. In most of the humanities and social sciences, there are few prerequisites, which means a variety of courses taken first and second year are likely to position students well for advanced study. The natural sciences, engineering, and foreign languages and literatures require more careful planning. During the first year, students lay the groundwork for these majors by beginning a sequence of courses that must be taken in a specified order throughout their four years of study. Explore majors and academic programs. Distribution Requirements Unlike liberal arts programs with core classes, Yale’s system of distributional requirements means students choose from among hundreds of humanities, social science, and natural science courses throughout their undergraduate years. This approach ensures diverse intellectual pursuits for all Yale College students while encouraging flexibility and freedom to expand on individual interests, explore new curiosities, and take academic risks. BULLDOG BLOGS Shop Til You Drop Posted by Cassandra Hsiao In This Section A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Related Links Course Catalog Programs of Study Open Yale Courses Department Directors of Undergraduate Studies Advising Information for Pre-med Students The Arts at Yale College Faculty Research & Innovations Guide to Engineering and Applied Science Yale Facts Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved