Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us Academics How to Apply Tuition & Aid Student Life Connect About Us Search Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply It's Great to be a Miami Hurricane! Our vibrant community is made up of change agents and difference makers. Here, people of all backgrounds add value and feel valued. Meet, collaborate, and exchange ideas with the support of our community. You'll achieve more than you ever thought possible! STUDENT AFFAIRS 300+ STUDENT CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS Explore a wide range of clubs and organizations to connect with like-minded students, grow as a leader, and help to shape our campus. 27 GREEK FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES Greek Life offers opportunities for leadership, community service, scholarship, friendship, and lifelong membership. Explore what Greek Life can offer you! 157,000+ SERVICE HOURS COMPLETED BY STUDENTS IN ONE YEAR Home to more than 35 service-based student organizations, the Butler Center for Service and Leadership provides programs, events, and initiatives to get involved! Patti & Allan Herbert Wellness Center One of the finest centers in the nation for recreational sports, fitness, and wellness education programs, the Wellness Center affirms the University of Miami’s commitment to a well-rounded educational environment. Stay Strong Student Health Services Listed on The Princeton Review's Top 10 Colleges with the Best Health Services by a student vote, UM provides healthcare at the state-of-the-art Lennar Medical Center on campus. Stay Healthy The University of Miami Counseling Center (UMCC) The UMCC provides high-quality counseling, outreach, and support for mental health wellness for students from all backgrounds. Stay Well Sports and Recreation Get involved with the campus community, make new friends, and improve your overall health and well-being. Stay Active Live Learn Community The University of Miami's residential colleges support and enhance student learning and engagement through interactions with live-in faculty and student affairs staff, as well as a wide range of programming, seminars, lectures, field trips, and recreational activities throughout the academic year. LIVING ON CAMPUS WHAT TO EXPECT Academic Resources The Camner Center for Academic Resources offers a multitude of resources to help manage success and advance potential. Dining Services When it comes to dining, there are plenty of choices. Students can choose from a wide variety of foods and menus available across campus. Grab something on the go or sit down for a relaxing meal with friends. Study Abroad Enrich your academic experience by immersing yourself in another culture through a study abroad program. Athletics The Miami Hurricanes are part of the Coastal Division of the Atlantic Coast Conference. With 22 NCAA championships and 17 varsity sports, win or lose, UM students always root for their beloved ’Canes. Blog Get the inside scoop on the admission process, academics, the city of Miami, and what it's like to be a 'Cane. Campus Safety From safety escorts to Thunder, our on-campus K9 police dog who's in charge of sniffing out danger, security is a top priority. UMPD is at your service 24/7. Meet a Current 'Cane! “The experience of doing things in the Simulation Hospital [for Advancing Research & Education] is incomparable and the resources are really useful to practice so you're not doing something for the first time ever on a real life patient!“ - Hargun Kaur Hargun Kaur A junior from Punjab, India majoring in nursing with minors in psychology, public health, and religion in healthcare University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Undergraduate Admission 1306 Stanford Drive, Suite 1210 Coral Gables, FL 33146 TEL: 305-284-6000 TEL: 305-284-6000 FAX: 305-284-2507 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search myUM Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram tiktok Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback