Jump to content Apply Visit Give Navigation Admissions Search form Search Main menu Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Majors and Minors Majors and Minors Marine biology? Got it. Product design? Got that, too. Plus Chinese and a host of other language programs, economics, advertising, and a whole lot more. If you’re an explorer—a student undecided about a major or minor—know that you are in good company: one-fourth of incoming UO students aren’t sure about their majors when they enroll. Find Majors and Minors Find Major or Minor Searching By: Psychology and Human Behavior Search Search By Keyword Explore by Interest - Any - Advertising and Marketing Architecture Art and Design Biological and Biomedical Science Business, Economics, and Finance Communications Computer and Information Science Culture, Ethnic, and Gender Studies Education English and Literature Entertainment and Media Environment and Sustainability Health and Fitness Journalism and Public Relations Language and Linguistics Law, Policy, and Social Justice Mathematics Music and Dance Philosophy and Religious Studies Physical Science Psychology and Human Behavior Science and Technology Social Science and Humanities Visual and Performing Arts Explore by School or College Any College of Arts and Sciences College of Design College of Education Lundquist College of Business School of Journalism and Communication School of Law School of Music and Dance Anthropology Available as: major, minor College: College of Arts and Sciences Concentrations: Cultural Anthropology, Biological Anthropology, Archaeology Commerce and society Available as: minor College: College of Arts and Sciences Communication disorders and sciences Available as: major College: College of Education Criminology Available as: minor College: College of Arts and Sciences Disability studies Available as: minor College: College of Arts and Sciences Economics Available as: major, minor College: College of Arts and Sciences Ethics Available as: minor College: College of Arts and Sciences Family and human services Available as: major College: College of Education General science Available as: major College: College of Arts and Sciences General social sciences Available as: major College: College of Arts and Sciences Concentrations: Applied Economics, Business, and Society; Crime, Law, and Society; Globalization, Environment, and Policy; Social Studies Teaching Linguistics Available as: major, minor College: College of Arts and Sciences Concentrations: Language Behavior, Linguistic Analysis, Sound, Grammar Neuroscience Available as: major College: College of Arts and Sciences Psychology Available as: major, minor College: College of Arts and Sciences Queer studies Available as: minor College: College of Arts and Sciences Sociology Available as: major, minor College: College of Arts and Sciences Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Available as: major, minor College: College of Arts and Sciences Undecided about your major? Making the transition to college can make you feel like a small fish in a big pond, especially when you're undecided about your major. But don't worry—25 percent of incoming UO students aren’t sure about their majors when they enroll. You’ll be in great company as you explore your academic opportunities. One benefit to being undecided about your major is that your mind is open—a lot like your future. Among the hundreds of academic programs you'll find here at the UO, there will be many you've never imagined. Each term, you'll find more than 3,000 classes to choose from in cutting-edge areas such as nanotechnology, sports marketing, product design, landscape architecture, ethnic studies, and many, many more. Looking for graduate programs? Graduate School RESOURCES Campus Safety En Español Find Your Counselor Forms Regional Accreditation Request Info Status Portal Admissions 1217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Oregon Hall P: 800-BE-A-DUCK F: 541-346-5815 P: 541-346-3201 - Text Contact Us admissions@uoregon.edu Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Visit us on Instagram Accessibility Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination. Site Navigation Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Take Action Apply Visit Give