Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site Logan Lakewood, Colorado Hi! I’m Logan, a sophomore in Silliman College from Lakewood, Colorado, double-majoring in English & Theater Studies. As a member of WORD: Performance Poetry at Yale and Heritage Theater Ensemble (Yale’s Black Arts collective), you can usually find me in the AfAm House, working on my latest poem or play. When I’m not scurrying around campus, I’m avidly following and analyzing the Billboard Hot 100, making late night food runs, and petting passing dogs whose owners I don’t know. The Dining Hall Crawl by Logan in #Campus Life, #Residential Colleges on 11.25.2018 “Wow.” “What?” “Nothing… It’s just… That’s a lot of starch on your plate.” “Hmm. I guess so.” As a first-year at Yale, there’s a lot to explore: study spots spread across the sprawling campus, restaurants, courtyards, a seemingly infinite amount of libraries, and of course, each of the residential colleges. It’s simultaneously daunting and exciting, especially when you think about the scope of it all. When a fellow TDer mentioned that he knew someone who’d never eaten in Saybrook during his entire time at Yale, I was, to say the least, shook. Surely you’d want visit and try everything at least once? Some of my friends insisted that there were some dining halls they would never go (back) to. ”Nah. Branford has hurt me too many times.” Being naturally curious, and also possessed by a recurring fear of missing out, I was inspired to set out on a personal quest: the dining hall crawl. My goal was to eat breakfast, brunch, lunch, and dinner at least once at each of the 13 dining halls (or 14, technically, if you count Morse and Stiles separately instead of as shared,) for a total of 52 different meals. Look familiar? After banana fritters, potatoes, a waffle, and a bowl of my all-time childhood favorite Cocoa Puffs, I was stuffed! To date, I’ve eaten 35 out of the 52 total meals I hope to have by the end of my first semester here. Here’s the exact breakdown and dining hall-specific details: BREAKFAST: 6/13! BRUNCH: 8/13! LUNCH: 8/13! DINNER: 13/13! Complete! A few highlights from each! Ben Franklin/Pauli Murray - Both 2/4 Meals They’re two different dining halls, but the vibe, look, and food is pretty similar. Both are big, with long tables but also several booths, and lots of windows and natural light. They’re new, so they don’t feel quite the same as the rest of the dining halls. But both have ramen bars! Definitely one of my favorites! “It’s jvst one of those things,” is carved into one end of the Franklin dining hall. My friends and I think it’s old English for “sometimes, it really do be like that,” which has become a popular saying at Yale this year. Berkeley - 2/4 Meals Contrary to other dining halls, it has a smaller, more compact vibe. It’s also incredibly crowded for any meal that isn’t breakfast. Berkeley tends to be packed, sometimes with every seat in the main area filled, but my friend Victoria says “the food always smacks.” In the mornings, past 10ish or so, a quiet lull settles over the usually chaotic space, and it becomes a quaint place to finish up a short assignment or reading. Branford - 3/4 Meals Branford was the dining hall we ate at during Cultural Connections, so it’ll always have a special place in my heart. Between sprinting there from Old Campus to recapping the adventures of our CC families over waffles, Branford holds an abundance of fond (and breathless!) memories. Davenport - 2/4 Meals Technically my first Yale dining hall experience; I ate in Davenport during Bulldog Days with my host. Like Pierson, it’s a bit of a walk from TD, so I don’t go there often, but it’s spacious and often bubbles with conversation. Grace Hopper - 3/4 Meals Has kind of a homey feel! It’s always mysteriously warm? In Hopper, time seems to move slow enough for me to feel like I can breathe, but fast enough to make me feel like I’ve written too little of my film midterm in the hour I’ve sat there. More than a few mornings, I’ve overestimated how many peanut butter bagels I think I can eat, and find myself in a breakfast food coma. Jonathan Edwards - 1/4 Meals I’ve only been to JE once, but it felt a bit dark and small. Could’ve also been the fact that it was overcast outside. Hmm. Morse/Ezra Stiles - 3/4 Meals Rivaled only by Franklin or Murray according to most first-years, most famous for its consistently good food quality, pizza, and grilled cheeses. There’s a walrus skeleton hanging on the wall of the Morse side of the dining hall, which is jarring to see the first time you come in. Pierson - 3/4 Meals My first Pierson meal was a reunion brunch with my CC siblings (can you tell how much I like mentioning CC by now?) There’s just one expansive, central area, bordered by white walls and long windows, but it’s in my top half of favorite dining halls! Very aesthetically pleasing! Saybrook - 3/4 Meals The first time I saw a Yalie eat breakfast cereal for dinner, I was in Saybrook. Around midday, in certain parts of the dining hall, you can get great selfie lighting (and good food too!) Silliman - 4/4 Meals Silliman! Is! Enormous! When it’s not packed, it feels a bit lonely and empty because it’s so huge, which might be due to the high ceilings and lack of a booth area. Still, the food is top notch, the equally gigantic windows let in a lot of light, and I’ve never had a bad meal there. Despite TD’s rivalry with Silliman, I will (just this once!) cede that I like their dining hall. Timothy Dwight - 4/4 Meals The chandelier and tall windows make it feel a bit reminiscent of Hogwarts. TD first-years often gather along the long table in the center of the dining hall, sitting with old friends, chatting up acquaintances, or introducing themselves to someone they swear they’ve never seen before (but apparently lives in TD as well.) Size? Perfect. Open space? You got it. Secluded booths that make it easier to smuggle leftover pie into Tupperware? Bet. The Goldilocks dining hall. Objectively the best. Trumbull - 3/4 Meals I used to always forget that Trumbull existed, until I was making the list for the crawl and couldn’t figure out why I only had 13 residential colleges. Regardless, it’s another one of my favorites! It feels expansive but not hollow, with a central area, booths, and some secluded tables. Like Berkeley, it makes for a subtle, relaxed spot to study or decompress during the second half of breakfast. In This Section Blogs Home Recent Posts Meet the Bloggers Blogs Topics #Academics #Applying #At Home, At Yale #Campus Life #International #New Haven #Residential Colleges #Student Groups Blogs Archives May 2022 April 2022 March 2022 February 2022 January 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 More Posts by Logan #Campus Life How to Finesse Yale (Funding Your Summer!) Posted by Logan #Applying 20 Questions I Had About Yale! Posted by Logan #Academics, #Campus Life New Words Learned at Yale! Posted by Logan #Campus Life Career Links? Posted by Logan #Academics, #Campus Life My First Time Directing! Posted by Logan #At Home, At Yale, #Campus Life What To Do When You’re In Your Flop Era Posted by Logan #Academics, #At Home, At Yale Take Classes With Your Friends! Posted by Logan #Academics No Retreat Posted by Logan #At Home, At Yale, #Campus Life, #Residential Colleges A Courtyard Winter Wonderland Posted by Logan More Posts by Logan #Campus Life How to Finesse Yale (Funding Your Summer!) Posted by Logan #Applying 20 Questions I Had About Yale! Posted by Logan #Academics, #Campus Life New Words Learned at Yale! Posted by Logan #Campus Life Career Links? Posted by Logan #Academics, #Campus Life My First Time Directing! Posted by Logan #At Home, At Yale, #Campus Life What To Do When You’re In Your Flop Era Posted by Logan #Academics, #At Home, At Yale Take Classes With Your Friends! Posted by Logan #Academics No Retreat Posted by Logan #At Home, At Yale, #Campus Life, #Residential Colleges A Courtyard Winter Wonderland Posted by Logan Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved