Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Sindiso Nyathi Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Sindiso Nyathi ’16 Bulawayo, Zimbabwe Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts In Bulawayo, Zimbabwe, where Sindiso Nyathi grew up, he could run only 10 minutes beyond the city’s industrial center and find himself in a rich savannah. “You have these areas with no buildings or people, just vast carpets of tall golden grass,” he says. “Every few meters there is an Acacia tree, tall, with a thorny umbrella. It is a very nice panorama, especially in the early morning and the evening, as the sun rises or sets.” He says the night sky in Zimbabwe is very impressive, too. With no city lights or smog to obscure the view, the sky is completely illuminated with stars. In the winter, one can see the entire Milky Way. “And home is quiet compared with the hustle and bustle of Princeton. I live in an area that is mostly rows of houses, and frequently run into kids playing and riding bicycles in the street, or kicking plastic soccer balls.” Nyathi beams when he paints these verbal pictures. At times he misses home: With funding provided by Princeton, he can afford to fly back once a year. But he also speaks with the same fervor about Princeton. He initially heard about the University from a family friend, who one day handed Nyathi a financial aid brochure and told him Princeton was affordable. Throughout high school Nyathi kept the brochure and began gathering pictures and information about the school. Nyathi remembers not only the precise moment he was admitted to Princeton, but also the first time he arrived on campus, which was about eight months later. The first building he saw as his taxi drove him through the campus gates was Alexander Hall. He recognized it from a photo he had collected. “I won’t forget the feeling,” he says. “It's a very distinctive building because of its iconic towers and architecture. I remember how the gentleman driving the taxi laughed when he noticed me gaping at it.” Nyathi was so excited during his first few days at Princeton that he forgot to call home. He says taking a 16-hour flight and not calling his parents for three days to tell them he had arrived safely was his first college mistake. His longtime passion was to study marine biology, which, he notes with a smile, is odd considering Zimbabwe is landlocked. But he followed his dream, and declared ecology and evolutionary biology his major. As part of the curriculum, Nyathi went to Panama where he spent 12 weeks studying tropical ecology, disease ecology, anthropology and coral reef ecology. For each of the courses, he spent most of his time outside of class, hiking through forests, visiting researchers and snorkeling. For his senior thesis, he returned to Central America to study coral reefs in Honduras. Nyathi also had time to feed his other passion, which is language. In addition to his mother tongue, Ndebele, which is characterized by clicking sounds, he also speaks Shona, the language spoken by most Zimbabweans, and English. At Princeton he added a fourth language, Chinese. After studying the language in class, he participated in the Princeton in Beijing summer program, which is an intensive two-month immersion in Chinese language and culture. He says Princeton has challenged him, but has been well worth the academic investment. “I did come in thinking it would be easy, which speaks to how highly I thought of myself at the time. But it has been a lot of fun.” Since graduation, Nyathi has been working at The Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University with the Global Obesity Prevention Center as systems modeler. He intends to pursue a master's degree in epidemiology in the near future. Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746