Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Meet the Admission Team Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Application Checklist Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Counselors Meet the Admission Team Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Counselors COVID-19 Update Due to the continued challenges presented by COVID-19, Princeton will suspend its standardized testing requirement for the 2022-23 first-year and transfer admission cycles. Read more. For the latest COVID-19 updates regarding University operations and admission-related news, please visit our Announcements page. Experience Princeton Our financial aid program provides grants, instead of loans, and is known to be one of the most generous in the country. Princeton is often more affordable than a state university. Our students are curious about the world around them and use the skills they learn here to make real differences in their communities. Our informal motto is 'Princeton in the Nation's service and the service of humanity,' and is central to our mission as a liberal arts university. Our low student-to-faculty ratio encourages our undergraduate students to form close intellectual relationships with our world-class faculty, many whom are Nobel Laureates, Pulitzer Prize winners and international leaders in their academic arenas. Our curriculum—regardless of concentration—ensures every senior produces a thesis, an original piece of scholarly work. This establishes a foundation for every Princeton graduate to identify the tools needed to ask good questions and apply what they have learned to solve challenges in the world. Our Mission The Office of Admission seeks students who will: Thrive in Princeton's rigorous academic environment; Demonstrate their readiness to benefit from the incredible academic and nonacademic opportunities Princeton has to offer; Contribute meaningfully to the Princeton community. Access and Inclusion At Princeton, we are proud of our diversity and committed to it. Our undergraduates come from a variety of ethnic, racial, religious, geographic, socioeconomic and ideological backgrounds. In our incoming Class of 2025, 18 percent of the students are the first in their families to go to college, 22 percent are Pell Grant recipients, and 48.1 percent self-identify as students of color. In addition, students come from around the globe, with 58 countries represented in the first-year class. With a low student to faculty ratio, robust campus resources and a close-knit residential community, students thrive academically and socially at Princeton. Our graduation rate is 97 percent, which is among the highest in the nation. Financial Aid Princeton's financial aid policy is one of the most generous in the country. For lower- and middle-income students, Princeton is often more affordable than a state university. Princeton covers the full cost of tuition and room and board for families with a household income of $65,000 or less. Most students from family incomes up to $160,000 pay no tuition. Plus, every aid package relies on grants, which do not have to be repaid, rather than loans. Thanks to this no-loan policy, about 83 percent of recent seniors graduated without debt. For the 17 percent who chose to borrow, usually for additional expenses such as a laptop computer or an unpaid internship, average indebtedness at graduation was about $9,600, far below the national average of $28,950.* * The Institute for College Access & Success, Student Debt and the Class of 2019" Undocumented or DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) Students Princeton's admission and financial aid policies are the same for undocumented or DACA students as they are for all other students applying to the University for admission or financial aid. The University's generous need-based financial aid program applies equally to all applicants. If admitted, undocumented students can be confident that their full financial need, as determined by the financial aid office, will be met. We encourage undocumented students to consult with the Office of Admission and the Office of Financial Aid if they have any questions about our process. Fee Waivers We want to make sure that Princeton is accessible to all candidates, regardless of their individual family's financial situation. If an applicant is from a lower-income background, or if the application fee is a hardship for their family, and they are applying for financial aid, Princeton will waive their application fee. Additionally, we will waive the application fee for all candidates who are serving or have served in the U.S. military. Applicants may submit a fee waiver one of two ways: Select the fee waiver option on the Coalition Application or Common Application. Counselors must approve the fee waiver request online or submit the fee waiver form by mail or fax. Select one of the following fee waiver options on the Princeton Supplement: Princeton-specific, ACT, College Board or NACAC. All lower-income students are eligible for the Princeton-specific fee waiver. In addition, all applicants who are serving or have served in the U.S. military are eligible for the Princeton-specific fee waiver. If you use the Princeton-specific fee waiver, college counselors do not need to provide approval. Students named QuestBridge Finalists should select the QuestBridge fee waiver. Upon submission of the Coalition Application or Common Application with the Princeton Supplement, the checklist in the student's Princeton Applicant Portal will reflect that their fee waiver has been granted. Please note that applying for a fee waiver will not disadvantage an application in any way. How You Can Help As our partners in this work, we ask you to help us learn about their talents, academic accomplishments and personal achievements: Tell us more than just the statistics in the file; Share with us how your student will seize the academic and nonacademic opportunities at Princeton and contribute to the community; Advise your student to tell us their story and to be authentic; Encourage your student to write in a style that reflects their own voice. We continue our commitment to a holistic review, in which we look at the whole application, not just the quantitative pieces. We consider not just grades or rigor of curriculum but also the less quantitative pieces of an application, including essays and your recommendation letters. We will ask you for your school profile, which should include a description of your curriculum and the progression of courses. We want to understand your program of study and whether you offer AP, IB, honors or dual enrollment courses. This will help us to better evaluate your student's transcript in the context of your school setting. We understand in this unprecedented year, many students will have a pass/fail transcript. We will honor all curriculum changes as approved by the school. As always, we will continue to review each applicant holistically. We encourage you to submit the required forms by the application deadline. If this is not possible, please reach out to us by email at uaoffice@princeton.edu. Please note that “demonstrated interest” is not a part of our review, though we encourage you and your students to review our website and take advantage of our virtual visit experience to learn more about the Princeton community. Advanced Standing We consider it a promising sign when students challenge themselves with advanced courses in high school. We understand that not all secondary schools offer the same range of advanced courses, but our strongest candidates have taken full advantage of the academic opportunities available to them in their high schools. If a student is taking advanced or college-level courses in high school, they may be able to take advantage of Princeton's Advanced Standing policy. Through this policy, students may receive recognition for their previous advanced or college-level work. The policy allows students to be placed in courses that match their level of preparation and, in some cases, may allow them to skip introductory courses and proceed to upper-division course work. Helpful Links Admission Statistics Application Process Application Checklist Graded Written Paper Dates & Deadlines U.S. Military Applicants International Applicants Transfer Applicants QuestBridge Helpful Tips Advanced Standing Office of Disability Services Connect With Us Counselor Newsletter Virtual Visit Meet the Admission Team @apply.princeton College Fairs: If you would like to see if a Princeton admission representative can attend a virtual college fair, panel, workshop or other events, please email fairs@princeton.edu with the invitation. Academics 37 Degrees & Departments Learn More Full content of node/551 Campus Life Student Community Learn More Full content of https://admission.princeton.edu/campus-life Blogs From the Dean Learn More Full content of https://admission.princeton.edu/blogs/bloggers/dean-karen-richardson Announcement Princeton will not release admission data during the early action, regular decision and transfer admission cycles. University News Princeton marks more than 50 years of kosher dining on campus See All News Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746