Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Medical School Admissions Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Search Medical School Admissions Benjamin Gallo Marin MD’23 Biography Growing up in Nicaragua, Ben Gallo saw firsthand the shortcomings of his country’s health care system. He dreamed of studying medicine in the US and collaborating with physicians back home, so they wouldn’t fail future patients as they had his dad and abuelita. “I want to be part of the forefront of medicine and research,” Ben says. “The potential that holds for the people of my country who don’t have the privilege to pursue education in the United States is enormous.” Ben studied molecular biology at Princeton and, after completing a post-baccalaureate at the University of Pennsylvania, applied to US medical schools. “I chose Brown because the Medical School’s culture—to prepare us to revolutionize medicine through a thesis of social justice and equity—was extremely appealing to me,” he says. Ben is devoted to giving back. During the COVID-19 shutdown he volunteered his language skills to translate health information into Spanish for local patients and the latest journal articles for physicians in Nicaragua, and collected and distributed smart devices to help isolated nursing home residents stay in touch with loved ones. He also co-founded F-1 Doctors, a volunteer mentorship platform where he supports other international students through the arduous US med school admissions process. His research activities reflect his mission of equity and access. He’s an Emerging Infectious Diseases Scholar and he’s pursuing a research internship in Global Emergency Medicine and a Scholarly Concentration in Caring for Underserved Communities. “I see all of this as an enormous social responsibility,” Ben says of studying medicine at Brown. “It’s rewarding to be given the tools to have a local impact while also lending a hand to the people of Latin America.” Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Benjamin Gallo Marin MD’23 Open details for Benjamin Gallo Marin MD’23 Bookmark this Page