Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Admissions Search Menu Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour Search Admissions Connect with Us Sub Navigation In This Section Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour One-on-One Advising Schedule a brief one-on-one advising appointment via Zoom for general advice on completing your application. View the Calendar Connect with Us Schedule an advising session, arrange a campus tour, or connect with our dynamic student and alumni ambassadors. Join our Mailing List Stay informed on the latest admissions events and application updates. You can even opt in to event-related text messages. Subscribe Now Our Social Media For the latest news, updates and stories, connect with Brown SPH on our social media channels. Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Linkedin Campus Tours Whether virtually or in person, getting to know Brown’s campus through the eyes of a current student is a great way to learn more about life as a Brunonian. Virtual School of Public Health Tour Can't make it to Providence? Our virtual tour provides a great introduction to our School's home on South Main Street. Virtual University Tour A quick general introduction to Brown University's main campus on College Hill. In-Person School of Public Health Tour In addition to general campus tours offered at the University, we invite prospective graduate students to sign up for an in-person campus tour at the School of Public Health. All tours will follow the latest COVID-19 safety protocols outlined at Healthy Brown. In-Person University Tour The general campus tour is an opportunity to explore Brown's campus and learn about the academic experience, campus landmarks, residential life, dining and Brown history and traditions. Student and Alumni Ambassadors Learn about our student and alumni experiences and reach out if you have questions about their experiences! Student Ambassadors We encourage you to learn more about our students—and read why they chose Brown. Alumni Ambassadors Our alumni are employed in a wide range of public health careers and are happy to connect with prospective applicants. Questions? Matthew Wallace Assistant Director of Student Recruiting and Marketing sph-admissions@brown.edu One-on-One Advising Schedule a brief one-on-one advising appointment via Zoom for general advice on completing your application. View the Calendar Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Connect with Us Open details for Connect with Us Bookmark this Page