Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Undergraduate Office of Admissions Menu Search Log In Why Nebraska Majors Career Connections Social Connections Academic Life Visit Nebraska Visit Lincoln Apply Admissions Requirements Enrollment Deposit Cost & Aid Scholarship Statement Nebraska Promise Residency Classification for Tuition Purposes Contact Us Information for… First Generation Students High Ability Students International Students LGBTQA+ Students Native American Students Nebraska Now School Counselors Students with Disabilities Transfer Students Undergraduate Online Programs Underrepresented Minorities Veteran and Active Military Students Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Admissions Undergraduate Office of Admissions Create the Future With the resources, faculty and technology at Nebraska, you’ll collaborate, invent, research, contribute and succeed—all before you graduate. No matter what your ambition is, you can make it happen here. Right-Facing Triangle Your browser does not support embedded videos. Apply Right-Pointing Double Angle Quotation Mark Cost & Aid Right-Pointing Double Angle Quotation Mark Study What Excites You Turn one of our 150+ majors into an exciting career. Explore Majors Visit Nebraska Visiting campus is the best way to get a preview of all you can accomplish at Nebraska. During your visit, you’ll tour campus with a current Nebraska student as your guide, explore your academic future and learn more about student involvement opportunities. Visit Nebraska Husker Weekday Juniors, Seniors, Transfers In Person Icon In-Person Calendar Icon Most Weekdays Clock Icon Half Day Get more info on admission requirements, academics, student life and value at Nebraska. You and your guests will tour campus with a current student as your guide. After tour, meet with an academic college representative during an academic appointment. Space is limited. Learn More & Register How Do You Want To Create the Future? Whether you're interested in hands-on experiences, developing career skills, expanding your social network, giving back, diving into classes or preparing for grad school, explore the different ways you can create the future at Nebraska. Prepare for your career. Learn by doing. Explore Career Connections Make friends. Make a difference. Explore Social Connections Discover your academic community. Explore Academic Life Join Our Mailing List We'll send you personalized information about joining our community of doers, thinkers and creators—including details on your major of interest, scholarships and more. Your Contact Information Your First Name * Your Last Name * Your Email * You are a: * ... High School Freshman High School Sophomore High School Junior High School Senior Military/Veteran College Transfer Parent Next Right-Pointing Double Angle Quotation Mark All Are Welcome Diversity and inclusion are central to Nebraska's mission and pursuit of excellence. Get connected, explore resources and join our Nebraska Community of Learners. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Find Information for… First-Generation Students Explore resources designed to promote success for students who are the first in their family to attend college. First Gen Student Icon High-Ability Students Discover Nebraska's three honors programs for high-achieving students. High Ability Student Icon International Students Preview life at Nebraska and learn more about our programs for international students. International Student Icon LGBTQA+ Find new programs, get involved and connect with other Huskers to help develop a more welcoming and inclusive campus and community. LGBTQA+ Icon Native American Students Get more info on how Nebraska supports Native Culture through scholarships, academic programs, research, events and celebration of contributions. Native Student Icon Students with Disabilities See how Nebraska supports students with disabilities. Learn more about resources available to help students achieve their full potential. Disability Icon Transfer Students Continue your higher education at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. Transfer Student Icon Underrepresented Minorities Connect with a campus community where students of all backgrounds can belong and succeed. Diversity Icon Veteran and Active Military Students Learn more about programs and services for military students and their dependents. Military Connected Student Icon School Counselors Connect with the Office of Admissions to help your future Huskers learn how they can stretch their strengths and accomplish big things at Nebraska. Visit the Counselors' Page Contact Us Address Map Pin Office of Admissions 1410 Q Street Lincoln, NE 68588-0417 US Office Hours Clock 8:00AM–5:00PM M–F Phone Phone 402-472-2023 Fax Fax Machine 402-472-0670 Email Envelope admissions@unl.edu Related Links Transfer Student Military Student Diversity Student First Generation Student International Student School Counselors Student Jobs Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.