Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Applicants to Brown Applicants to Brown Given the worldwide impact of novel coronavirus, we want to address some questions prospective Brown students and their families may have as they begin thinking about applying to college. We know this period has been one of great disruption and difficulty for communities around the world. Our goal is to support prospective Brown students and their families as they begin the application process while simultaneously navigating the challenges of a global health crisis. Standardized Tests Brown will extend our test-optional policy to all first-year, transfer and Resumed Undergraduate Education applicants in the 2022-2023 admission cycle. Students who do not submit test scores should be assured that they will not be disadvantaged in our admission process, and we will look to other aspects of the application, from course grades and curricular rigor to insight from counselors and teachers, to assess academic preparation. The SAT or ACT, when submitted, will continue to be considered in the context of all the other information we have about a candidate. As with every aspect of the admission process, our test-optional policy will be evaluated again before the 2023-2024 application cycle begins. As we continue to examine the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on academic outcomes, both at the high school and college level, continued research and assessment is needed and will guide policy decisions in the coming years. We anticipate that the data we gather this year will help to provide clarity on these outcomes and inform our longer term testing policies. Changes to High School Curricula and Grading Policies We also recognize that as many high schools moved to virtual learning, curricula and grading policies also changed. We understand the challenges and constraints that students have been working under since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. We appreciate that not all students will have experienced remote learning in the same way, and we assure you that your application will be reviewed fairly and thoughtfully with full awareness that many events were far beyond your control, including the grading policy of your school. Many schools changed grading policies during the spring of 2020 and some offered students a choice of letter grade or a pass/fail grading system. Our advice at the time was to remain safe and to take care of yourself, your family and your community, and this continues to be the philosophy we encourage. We will review the results of that term in the context of your entire high school record, with no preference for the choice of pass/fail or letter grades. You may be reassured to know that for many years Brown undergraduates have had the choice of letter grades or Satisfactory/No Credit for each of their classes. For prospective applicants to the Class of 2026, please know that there will be space on our application for you to share additional information about how COVID-19 and any other natural disasters or community disruptions may have impacted your life, your academic coursework and your extracurricular activities. Students should not feel compelled to complete this section if they have not experienced serious or long-lasting negative impacts related to COVID-19. Many students appropriately leave this optional section blank. Extracurricular Activities and More Please be assured that Brown's Office of College Admission understands that your extracurriculars, sports, internships, volunteer work and other pursuits have been disrupted. We will consider the many elements impacting and shaping your experiences as a result of COVID-19. We review every applicant's file holistically and in context. We want to see what you have accomplished with the resources and opportunities available to you in high school, as well as evaluate your potential to thrive within the unique offerings of Brown University. Campus Visits Brown does not track demonstrated interest, and students who have been unable to visit campus will face no disadvantage in the admissions process. We know by the very fact that you apply that you are seriously interested in Brown. We encourage you to connect with admission officers and current students and experience Brown through our events. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Applicants to Brown Open details for Applicants to Brown Bookmark this Page