Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Admissions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Explore Select to follow link Academics Student Life Success Afford Select to follow link Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Costs Visit Select to follow link Special Events Group Visits Schools & Spaces Plan Select to follow link College Prep Curriculum Apply Select to follow link Major-Specific Requirements High School Equivalency Exams Need-Based and Military Fee Waivers Credit Transfer Select to follow link Appealing Credit Decisions Credit and Exemption for High School Work Community College Guides Transfer and KU Core Codes Update Your Application Enroll Select to follow link Freshman Enrollment Select to follow link Freshman Enrollment Deposit Transfer Enrollment Info for Transfers Students of color Military affiliated students High-achieving students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Admissions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Explore Academics Finding a life’s pursuit KU offers over 420 degrees and certificates in its 14 academic schools and six Exploratory Pathways for students still deciding on a direction. Take our MyMajors quiz to see how your skills and interests match up with our academic programs. Fields of study Fields of study Exploratory pathways Exploratory pathways MyMajors quiz MyMajors quiz What can you expect? As one of 65 members of the prestigious Association of American Universities, KU offers students access to rigorous academics and renowned, well-funded research. Undergraduates can expect to build faculty relationships, grow comfortable in the lab, and put lessons to use. Academic resources No Jayhawk navigates the academic experience alone. You’ll work with a dedicated advisor and have access to KU’s world-class libraries, hands-on tutoring, and consultation services. Undergraduate Advising Center KU Libraries University Academic Support Centers Experiential learningView as gallery page Jayhawks learn by doing — by engaging in research, taking their studies across borders, and integrating leadership, sustainability, and service into their work. For their efforts, students can earn certificates that demonstrate their curiosity and capability to a future institution or employer. Study abroad programs Nearly 25% of undergraduate students open themselves to new perspectives in one of the hundreds of KU study abroad programs offered through our global partnerships. Undergraduate research Groundbreaking discoveries happen at the University of Kansas. KU’s Center for Undergraduate Research can help you join work in progress or set out on your own with faculty and financial assistance. Learning certificates Through experiential learning certificate programs, you can enrich your time at KU and enhance your résumé while taking your curiosity far beyond what’s expected. Previous Next Get started Ready to apply? We often respond in less than a week to completed applications, which don’t require essays or final transcripts. If you want more information, join our mailing list or contact your admissions rep. Apply Apply Request info Request info Find your rep Find your rep KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 adm@ku.edu 785-864-3911 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Staff Admissions Reps Graduate admissions International admissions Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.