Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site Yale has extended the test-optional policy for first-year and transfer applicants in the 2022-23 admissions cycle. Review Yale’s current policy on standardized testing. Close For Counselors The Yale Office of Undergraduate Admissions uses slate.org to share applicant information with counselors. Slate.org is a free tool that allows counselors to view students’ application checklists, upload application documents, and access released admissions decisions. To join, create a counselor account at slate.org and select Yale Undergraduate Admissions using the colleges icon. One counselor per school is designated to manage permissions and portal settings If you need help registering, email info@slate.org. The Application Process COVID-19 Response & Test-Optional Policy In response to the pandemic, Yale has adopted a test-optional policy for first-year applicants in the 2021-2022 admissions cycle. Applicants who are unable to complete an exam or who choose not to report exam scores will not be disadvantaged. SAT Subject Tests will not be considered. Read about the admissions office’s response to COVID-19 Profile of the First-Year Class A numerical overview of the most recent first-year class at Yale. (PDF) Application Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action: November 1 Regular Decision: January 2 We encourage schools to submit required forms to us by stated postmark deadlines. However, we understand that it may not be possible in some cases for teachers and counselors to meet these deadlines, and we will make reasonable allowances. This will not negatively impact an applicant’s chance of admission. Single-Choice Early Action Help your students understand the Single-Choice Early Action process at Yale. This page includes information on exemptions from Yale’s restrictive early action program. Advice to Candidates Check out useful advice for students applying to Yale and other highly selective schools. Resources include: What Yale Looks For, Advice on Selecting High School Courses, Advice on Putting Together Your Application, Advice for First-Generation College Applicants, Beyond College Rankings, Epilogue: After Colleges Accept You and more. QuestBridge Find resources to help your students navigate the QuestBridge process at Yale. QuestBridge is a program that links bright, motivated, high-achieving low-income students with educational and scholarship opportunities at some of the nation’s best colleges. Resources for Educators Application Material Upload Form If you are unable to submit a piece of application material for one of your students via the Common Application, Coalition Application, Naviance, or Parchment, use the Application Material Upload Form for Educators to upload a digital file. Please include a student’s Yale Applicant Record ID to assist with processing. An admissions office staff member will review submissions and individually index materials to applicants’ files. Affordability The Quick Cost Estimator and Net Price Calculator generate sample financial aid awards based on your student’s financial information and Yale’s current aid policies. The Quick Cost Estimator provides a ballpark figure in less than three minutes with six questions. The Net Price Calculator provides a more detailed estimate, using more information. Both tools are designed to provide a first look at what a family can expect to pay at Yale. Counselor Newsletter Check out our most recent counselor newsletter which includes News from New Haven, financial aid information, and quick facts on Yale and admissions profile information. Yale Virtual Tour View Yale’s Residential Colleges, Science labs, Athletics facilities, libraries, classrooms, and more. Look for the “360” icon at each stop for panoramic views. Counselor Registration and Mailing List Help keep our records up-to-date by registering on our mailing list. You will receive updates throughout the year including our Counselor Newsletter and information about group travel events. Yale Educator Award Winners The Yale Educator Recognition Program recognizes outstanding educators from around the world who have supported and inspired their students to achieve at high levels. Matriculating students are invited to nominate high school educators, and a committee of Yale admissions officers selects winners annually. slate.org Slate.org is a free platform for counselors to access students’ application checklists, a document upload tool, and released admissions decisions. Related Links Frequently Asked Questions Majors & Departments Quick Cost Estimator Group Visits to Campus Yale Events Near You General Information Brochure (PDF) Yale Viewbook (PDF) Diversity Brochure (PDF) Open Yale Courses ROTC at Yale Yale Athletics Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved