Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Campus Tours Get to know Brown’s campus and community! Breadcrumb Home Visit Brown Campus Tours Get to know Brown’s campus and community! Campus Tours Whether virtually or in person, getting to know Brown’s campus through the eyes of a current student is a great way to learn more about life as a Brunonian. More detail regarding both types of tour can be found below, along with registration information. In-Person Campus Tours Hosted Virtual Tours In-Person Campus Tours The campus tour is an opportunity to explore Brown's campus and learn about the academic experience, campus landmarks, residential life, dining and Brown history and traditions. Join a current Brown student to walk around Brown’s picturesque New England college campus while learning about the student experience. You’ll be able to ask any questions you might have about life on College Hill from those who are living it. Due to health and safety guidelines in response to COVID-19, pre-registration is required for all campus tours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to accommodate visitors who have not registered. To ensure that available spaces are appropriately allocated, please make sure that you indicate the correct number of visitors in your party, with a limit of three total visitors per registration. Please be aware that while we are currently welcoming visitors to campus, in-person offerings are subject to change in accordance with changing public health guidelines. All visitors are expected to comply with University policy regarding mask-wearing, social distancing, and other health and safety guidance based on Brown’s Campus Activity Status. Indoor mask wearing is optional for individuals who are up to date with their COVID-19 vaccines and Brown requires that unvaccinated visitors wear a mask at all times during their campus visit. To better enable social distancing as necessary, tours will not enter buildings. Upon registration, you will be asked to adhere to University visitor policies. Plan to arrive at the Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center Information Desk, located at 75 Waterman Street, at least 15 minutes before your tour. Directions and parking information are available on our website. Check-in is required upon arrival. Please be aware that tours leave at their scheduled time and we are unable to hold tours for visitors who are late but will make every effort to connect you with the tour en route. Please note that we are not able to accommodate private campus visits for larger groups at this time. REGISTER HERE Hosted Virtual Tours Led by a current Brown student, this live virtual campus tour gives you the opportunity to explore Brown's campus and learn about the academic experience, campus landmarks, Brown history and traditions, residential life and dining. These tours provide a glimpse of Brown's beautiful campus, and will also give you the opportunity to connect with current Brown students who will share their experiences and answer questions about what it's like to be a Brunonian. Please note that we are not able to accommodate private virtual campus visits for large groups at this time. If you are interested in virtually visiting campus with a group, each visitor is welcome to register individually for a hosted virtual tour or Live Q&A session at times that work for them. You are also welcome to view the virtual tour at a time that is convenient for your group. REGISTER HERE Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Campus Tours Open details for Campus Tours Bookmark this Page