Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Afford > Applying for Financial Aid Applying for Financial Aid Like other colleges and universities, The University of Texas at Austin administers a range of financial aid beyond scholarships. To apply for financial aid: Complete the FAFSA and accept financial aid awards By January 15, submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Even if you think you’re not likely to qualify for need-based aid, it’s still a good idea to apply. If you complete your FAFSA, you'll receive a financial aid notification in early spring, which will direct you to view and accept your financial aid package on CASH. For more information on this process, please visit the Understanding Your Aid page on the Texas One Stop website. More Information About the FAFSA International Applicants About the FAFSA All need-based financial aid is awarded based on your FAFSA information. When you apply, be sure to list The University of Texas at Austin (003658) as one of the colleges you’re considering so that the information you provide will be reported to us. What comes next: We’ll notify you by email that we’ve received your FAFSA. We’ll send you a Financial Aid Notification (FAN) that lists all financial aid we can offer you. FANs are typically available between mid-March and mid-April. You’ll also receive notice of any scholarship awards. Via Check Aid Status Here (CASH), you respond to the FAN and any other award notices, submitting any additional required documentation and electing which aid you’d like to accept. You receive your funds (a few days before classes). Questions? Contact the Texas One Stop. International Applicants There is limited financial aid available for international students, but those who qualify for Texas residency may also qualify for some state-funded financial aid programs. To apply, please visit the Apply page for instructions on submitting a paper FAFSA, paper TASFA, or eTASFA. (Because international Texas residents are not eligible for federal aid, they should not complete the online FAFSA, which goes directly to the federal government.) Need assistance? Contact Texas One Stop. You should indicate that you are a non-citizen student who qualifies for Texas residency. Additional financial aid and scholarship information for international students is available from the International Office. Monitor CASH The university’s CASH—Check Aid Status Here—system provides information about the status of your scholarship and financial aid applications. It’s also where we’ll notify you of any additional documentation required. Types of Aid Available aid includes: Grants Grants, including the Pell Grant, TEXAS Grant and Texas Public Education Grant, are a form of need-based financial aid that does not have to be repaid. Individual awards range from $1-10,000. Work-Study Federal Work-Study provides part-time on campus jobs to students with financial need, allowing them to earn money to pay educational expenses; a proportion of the salary earned is subsidized by the federal government. Students who do not qualify for Work-Study still have employment options available, both on and off campus. Many of these job opportunities are listed in the university’s job bank. Loans The U.S. Department of Education offers two federal student loan programs: the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program and the Federal Perkins Loan Program where the US Department of Educaiton is your lender. Direct Loan offerings include the Direct Subsidized Loan, Direct Unsubsidized Loan, Direct Plus Loan, and Direct Consolidation Loans. Additionally, Texas offers a limited number of low-interest loans to students who are residents of the state. Finally, private education loan programs are available in cases where the federal or state loan programs are inadequate to meet educational expenses. Private education loans provide funds from a private lender or bank of the student’s choice but do not typically include the benefits of federal student loans, such as fixed interest rates and income-based repayment plans. In contrast, private loans are generally more expensive (variable interest rates, additional fees) and require an established credit record or a cosigner. Exemptions and Waivers Some students—ROTC participants and class valedictorians, for instance—are eligible for exemptions and waivers. The Tuition Reductions page on the Texas One Stop website offers additional information about eligibility, as does College for All Texans. Submit FAFSA by Priority: January 15 (Submit your FAFSA by this date to be considered for all forms of financial aid. After this date? Submit the FAFSA to be considered for the types of aid that are still available.) Quick Links Tuition Cost of Attendance FAFSA Texas Residency Next: Back to Afford Go to Scholarships & Fellowships Financial Aid Accepting Awards and Aid admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022