Skip to main content Welcome! Because our site has been optimized for modern browsers, Internet Explorer will not display it correctly. Please consider using a different browser, such as Chrome, Firefox, Edge, or Safari, instead. Thank you! No, that's okay. I want to use Internet Explorer anyway. Information and updates about the Fall 2022 application and review process and COVID vaccination requirement. Academics Educational Opportunities Majors Co-Ops Guaranteed Admissions Programs Internships Pitt Honors Undergraduate Research Global Experiences College Life Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Pittsburgh Titusville Student Life Culture Stories Student Affairs Outcomes Athletics Admissions Admissions Info First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Military/Veterans Graduate Students Guest Students Counselors Families Undergraduate Application Apply for Admission Application Tips Personal Statement Costs Tuition & Fees Commit to Pitt Commit to Pitt Visit Explore Pitt Pittsburgh—Visits Pittsburgh—Graduate Visits Bradford—Visits Greensburg—Visits Johnstown—Visits Request Info More Info U.S. Citizens International Students Graduate School Connect With Us Reps in Your Area Admissions Counselors Graduate Contacts Regional Campus Contacts FAQs Contact Us Financial Aid Search Academics Educational Opportunities Majors Co-Ops Guaranteed Admissions Programs Internships Pitt Honors Undergraduate Research Global Experiences College Life Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Pittsburgh Titusville Student Life Culture Stories Student Affairs Outcomes Athletics Admissions Admissions Info First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Military/Veterans Graduate Students Guest Students Counselors Families Undergraduate Application Apply for Admission Application Tips Personal Statement Costs Tuition & Fees Commit to Pitt Commit to Pitt Visit Explore Pitt Pittsburgh—Visits Pittsburgh—Graduate Visits Bradford—Visits Greensburg—Visits Johnstown—Visits Request Info More Info U.S. Citizens International Students Graduate School Connect With Us Reps in Your Area Admissions Counselors Graduate Contacts Regional Campus Contacts FAQs Contact Us Financial Aid Build Your Bridge Learn how Pitt can be the bridge to your future or use the button below to apply now. Undergraduate Application Build the Bridge to Your Future Pittsburgh is a city of endless opportunity. With 446 bridges, it has more than any other city in the world. And that’s just the beginning Pittsburgh is home to a thriving economy, a vibrant culture, and a strong sense of community. The University of Pittsburgh is located in the heart of the city, and it is one of the top universities in the nation. Pitt offers a world-class education, research opportunities, and a diverse community. Why Choose Pitt? Want to explore all of your interests and double (or even triple) major? You’ve found the right place. Want to create a student organization with other students who share your passions? We support you. Looking for internships and research opportunities in cutting-edge industries like robotics, AI and health care? No problem. At the University of Pittsburgh, no two student experiences look alike because no two students are the same. Each student builds their own bridge from where they are today to where they want to be. When you choose Pitt, you are choosing a place where you can pursue your dreams and make a difference in the world. Surge in Fall 2022 Applications A record number of first-year/freshman applications to the Pittsburgh campus have been submitted—so far nearly double the number compared to this time last year! The surge of applications means that you can expect the initial review process to take longer than the previously advertised 6 to 8 weeks. The Admissions Committee is working as carefully and diligently as possible to review this record number of applications. Your continued patience is greatly appreciated and you can find more information here. Bridging passions and careers What does language have to do with law? Ask Ryan Steinly, a double major in classics and Spanish with a minor in German—and the recipient of a competitive fellowship after his first year at Pitt. “I have always been interested in languages and global communication,” says Ryan. “I am also interested in working in the legal profession, and aspire to work in a global field where I can use my language skills. I was able to begin that work through my fellowship conducting legal research on Pennsylvania's current immigration system.” With more than 100 majors and programs, every Pitt student can create their own customized curriculum. Explore Pitt’s programs Previous Next Bridging big opportunities and tight-knit communities Pitt is a big place, bursting with opportunities. With more than 400 student organizations, it’s easy to find the great people you’ll connect with. And you can always form a new organization, like alumna Destiny Harrison-Griffin. Now continuing her education at law school, Destiny founded the Association of Black Political Science Students, a natural hair appreciation group called Crown Culture, and Good Trouble, a student organization dedicated to promoting inclusivity on campus and throughout Pittsburgh. Experience campus life Previous Next Bridging research and mentorship Alumni Kyle Huber connected his interest in clothing and fashion to his theatre arts major when he found a mentor in Karen Gilmer, lecturer and faculty research mentor in the Department of Theatre Arts. As a costumer designer, Gilmer’s mentorship showed Kyle how studying clothing and costumes of the past gives us insight into what life was like in any given time period. Her mentorship also taught Kyle the research skills that grad schools require and inspired a new way of learning. “I am happy to be a part of helping students to see their potential to learn and grow,” says Gilmer. “I have imparted a life skill that will lead them to continue to want to know more and discover the possibilities that research can offer.” Explore Pitt's research opportunities Previous Next BRIDGING EXCELLENCE AND AFFORDABILITY—The Princeton Review ranks Pitt among the top 200 colleges that pay you back. Learn about the Value of a Pitt education Learn about Affordability at Pitt Take the Next Step Undergraduate Application Take a Quiz to Find Your Application Resources Graduate and Professional Schools Contact Us Title IX Campus Safety Consumer Information Privacy Policy Financial Aid Follow Us Back to top The provisions of this website are subject to change at any time at the University’s sole discretion. This website is intended to serve only as a general source of information about the University and is no way intended to state contractual terms. Visit Apply Commit We use cookies to help our site work, understand how it’s used, and to deliver targeted information to existing and prospective customers. By accepting this message, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device. For more information on the cookies we use, please see our Privacy Policy. If you decline, you won’t be tracked when you visit this website, apart from the necessary cookie required to remember your preference. Accept