Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Admissions Home Academics & Majors Majors & Minors Colleges Research Study Abroad Honors College Requirements & Applications Application Process Find Your Requirements First-Year Student Requirements Assured Admission Transfer Requirements Transfer Your Credits AP, IB & CLEP Credit Associate’s Degrees The Washington 45 Returning Non-Degree Post Bachelor’s Online Graduate International Students AP, IB, CLEP, Running Start & Cambridge Credits AP Credit Chart IB Credit Chart CLEP Credit Chart Cambridge Credit Chart Deadlines Veterans & Military Undocumented Students myWSU Student Portal Submitting Transcripts Application Index Scholarships Washington Residents Non-Washington Residents Scholarship Awards WUE and Cougar Award Cougar Award for Transfers (WUE) Cougar Commitment Crimson Transfer Award Distinguished University Achievement Award Glenn Terrell Presidential Award Regents Scholars Program How the Process Works Scholarship Winners University Achievement Award Residency Requirements International Students Departmental Scholarships National Merit Scholarship Financial Aid & Costs Tuition & Fees Federal and State Financial Aid WSU Financial Aid Estimator Visit and Explore Future Students Admitted Students Videos Transfer Students Travel Guide Events by Season Visit Events Experience WSU Why Attend Awards Schedule Workshops Showcases FAQ Fall Preview Why Attend Schedule Future Cougars of Distinction Why Attend Eligibility Awards Schedule Workshops FAQ Preview for Juniors Why Attend Schedule Campus Tours Signup Schedules Self-Guided Tours Game Day Tours Why Attend Schedule Group Visits Why Attend Signup FAQ Student Life Student Resources Student Experience Greek Life Involvement Community Life Housing Housing Options First-Year Housing Upperclassmen Housing Apartments & Residence Halls Off Campus Housing Admitted Student Next Steps Parent/Family Resources Counselor Resources Contact Contact a Counselor Request Info Chat with Admissions Ask a Student FAQ facebook twitter instagram myWSU Access Policies © Admissions Home #FutureCoug WSU Explore WSU Pullman Feel the Coug Spirit In-Person or Virtually Many of our students know as soon as they see campus that WSU is the place for them. We invite you to visit WSU Pullman in-person or via our virtual tour, videos, and live web presentations to see what it’s like to be a Coug. NOTICE: At Washington State University, we continue to carefully evaluate wellness and safety concerns related to COVID-19. To learn more about WSU’s continued response to COVID-19, please visit our COVID-19 information page. Explore Pullman Take a virtual tour of the beautiful WSU Pullman campus. Start your virtual tour Experience WSU Once you’re admitted, visit campus to help you finalize your college decision! You’ll tour campus and residence halls and learn more about academic opportunities and student services. Learn More Junior Preview Experience Washington State University this spring during our all-day Junior Preview program. Join us and explore campus, meet current students, learn about our academic programs, have lunch on us, tour a residence hall, and much more! Learn More Campus Tours Tour the campus with a current student as your guide, plus get information about academic programs, paying for college, and tips for applying. Learn More Future Cougars of Distinction This is an invitation-only program designed for top scholars in the incoming freshman class to join other ambitious students for a behind-the-scenes look at WSU. Learn More Group Visits Request a date for your group to visit campus, and we’ll create a personalized tour to fit your needs. Learn More Admitted Student Visit Events Attention: The internal data of table “27” is corrupted! *Future Cougars of Distinction is an invitation-only program for students with qualifying credentials. Space at all of the above events is limited and registration is on a first-come, first-served basis. All admitted student visitation programs provide programming on academic opportunities, student services as well as campus tours and residence hall tours. Future Students Interested in joining the Cougar family? Find out about all of our on-campus and virtual tours, presentations, and events to learn about WSU. LEARN MORE ABOUT FUTURE STUDENT EVENTS Visit Campus The Washington State University Pullman campus has resumed in-person presentations in our Welcome Center, guided tours, and self-guided exploration of our campus. We are open, adhering to COVID-19 safety protocols, and excited to see you! Admitted Students Welcome to the Cougar family! Start here for your next steps to become a WSU Pullman Coug. ATTEND ADMITTED-STUDENT PRESENTATIONS AND EVENTS EXPLORE CAMPUS IN-PERSON Visit our Future Coug Welcome Center to learn about WSU and explore campus with a guided or self-guided tour. Limited in-person tours are available Monday through Thursday at 9 a.m. and 2 p.m., Fridays at 9 a.m., noon, and 2 p.m., and Saturdays at 10 a.m. Due to our enhanced safety procedures, pre-registration is required before visiting campus. Thank you in advance for practicing the appropriate safety measures for your vaccination status. REGISTER TO VISIT CAMPUS Parents/Families and Supporters Parent and supporter involvement is valuable to helping ensure your Coug is supported and on track. We’re here to help you help! VIEW AVAILABLE PRESENTATIONS FOR FAMILIES Have questions about life at WSU? LIVE chat with a Coug Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. CHAT NOW A – Z of Paying for College Workshops Led by a financial aid expert on WSU’s Vancouver campus, this workshop covers all you need to know about paying for college. SEE THE WORKSHOP SCHEDULE Explore the Beautiful WSU Pullman Campus Campus Aerial Tour Residence Life Facilities Start Your Journey Apply Now Already been admitted? Confirm today! Transferring to WSU? Learn more Explore Resources Living Options Financial Aid Resources for Undocumented Students Financial Aid Checklist Request Info Visit WSU Apply to WSU Chat with Admissions Info Visit Apply Chat Facebook Twitter Instagram Back to top