Skip to main content Search for: Ex: How do I apply to Providence College? Menu Apply Visit Give Coronavirus Information & Updates Parents & Families Alumni Media MY-PC Events Admission Home Explore Apply Tuition & Aid Class of 2026 Visit En Español Contact Request Info Close menu Site Home> Visit > Directions Directions All admission visitors should enter campus via the entrance detailed in the confirmation message sent prior to your visit. There are several ways to get to our campus: Hop on a Bus Take the #55 RIPTA Bus (Admiral / Providence College) outbound from Kennedy Plaza / Downtown Providence. In approximately 10 minutes, you’ll be dropped off right at the Huxley Avenue entrance to campus. Take a Scooter Electric scooters operated by Spin are available throughout the City of Providence. Drive a Car If you’re planning to drive a car to get to campus, there are several campus entrances that are available: Huxley Avenue Entrance Huxley Avenue is the main entrance to the College and is staffed at all times. It is best accessed using a GPS address of 212 Huxley Avenue. River Avenue Entrance Phelan Gates, also known as the River Avenue entrance, is the most direct gate for the Office of Admission and accessed using a GPS address of 549 River Avenue. It is not staffed and open at all times. Eaton Street Gate (Smith Center for the Arts) The Eaton Street Gate is the primary entrance for many residence halls, as well as the Smith Center for the Arts. For GPS programs, use 63 Eaton Street. This gate is accessible at all times, but uses automated access control. Explore the City of Providence In-Person and Virtual Visits Admitted Student Programming Information Sessions & Tours Preview Providence Personal Interviews Virtual Info Sessions Virtual Campus Tour Virtual Tour of Residence Halls Chat with Members of our Community Group Visit Programs Learn about the City of Providence Area Hotels and Accommodations Directions Information for… Admitted Students International Students Homeschool Students Parents College Counselors, IECs, & CBOs Alumni Ambassadors Contact Us Office of AdmissionHarkins Hall 103 Phone: 401.865.2535 Fax: 401.865.2826 pcadmiss@providence.edu facebook twitter instagram 1 Cunningham Square Providence, RI 02918 USA Tel: +1.401.865.1000 Contact PC Support PC Emergency Information Student Consumer Information Academics Majors, Minors, Programs Academic Calendar Library People & Places Offices & Services Directory People Directory Maps & Directions Visit Facts & Info Fast Facts Jobs Mass Schedule Annual Security Report Title IX & Sexual Harassment Copyright ©2022. Providence College Terms of Use | Privacy Policy If you are having trouble viewing or accessing these web pages, please email our Web Accessibility Coordinator Page maintained by: PC Web Services | About This Site