Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / For Admits custom css-js - global For Admits CAST CAST Overview CAST FAQs 2022 CAST Fellows For Parents Spring Scholars Opportunities for Spring Scholars Spring Scholars FAQs Spring Scholars Ambassadors Gap Year Have You Been Admitted? If so, CONGRATULATIONS! You have been admitted to one of the most prestigious institutions in the country. We cannot wait to welcome you into the Tulane family. It's a busy time for you right now, so we've made it as easy as possible to find the information you need in order to make your decision. What's Next? Green Wave Portal In order to provide you opportunities to learn more about Tulane, we will be offering on-campus programs for admitted students, starting in mid-January and running through late April. Destination Tulane is a half-day program that includes a welcome from an Admission Counselor, a student panel, and a student-led tour, among other features. Given restrictions in place because of COVID, we ask that each student bring a maximum of two additional visitors with them to campus. To sign up, register on your Green Wave Portal. Your assigned Admission Counselor is available to answer questions and guide you through the rest of the admission process. Class of 2025 Facebook Group CAST CAST Overview CAST FAQs 2022 CAST Fellows For Parents Spring Scholars Opportunities for Spring Scholars Spring Scholars FAQs Spring Scholars Ambassadors Gap Year Did You Know? New Orleans is home to the longest bridge in the USA; the Lake Pontchartrain Causeway stretches about 24 miles connecting Metairie, the city’s largest suburb, to the Northshore of Lake Pontchartrain. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University