Skip to main content Utility Navigation Visit Apply Ask COVID-19 Updates Main navigation Learning at Penn Living at Penn Admissions and Financial Aid Search Close Menu Close Search keywords Search Utility Navigation Visit Apply Ask COVID-19 Updates Secondary Navigation Desktop Student Stories Explore Penn Penn Admissions Blog For Parents & Families For Counselors Contact Admissions Main navigation Learning at Penn Major & Minors Specialized Degree Programs Inter-School Minors Submatriculation Undergraduate Schools College of Arts and Sciences Penn Engineering School of Nursing The Wharton School Our Faculty Penn Integrates Knowledge Civic Engagement Civic House Fox Leadership Program Netter Center for Community Partnerships Research and Learning Opportunities Undergraduate Research Scholars After Penn Living at Penn Art & Culture Athletics & Recreation Campus & Philadelphia Diverse Community Housing & Dining Penn Around the World Student Activities Student Support & Services Admissions and Financial Aid Visit Penn Tours and Information Sessions Workshops, Panels, & Events Student Connections Philadelphia Apply For Admission First-Year Admission Student Athletes International Applicants Undocumented Students Homeschool Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Admission International Applicants Student Athletes Costs & Financial Aid What Penn Looks For Comprehensive Review High School Preparation Testing Extracurricular Activities Letters of Recommendation Essays Interviews Supplementary Materials Admitted Student Profile Secondary Navigation Student Stories Explore Penn Penn Admissions Blog For Parents & Families For Counselors Contact Admissions Admitted Class of 2025 Navigate Admissions and Financial Aid Comprehensive Review High School Preparation Testing Extracurricular Activities Letters of Recommendation Essays Interviews Supplementary Materials Admitted Student Profile Below gives a snapshot into how we build our newest class of students. It’s impossible to truly quantify the diversity and vibrancy of our community in numbers, nor do these percentages translate into your individual “chances” of being admitted to Penn. Applicant Pool 56332 Total Applicants 3304 Total Admitted 5.9% Total Admit Rate 7961 Early Decision Applicants 1183 Early Decision Admitted 14.9% Early Decision Admit Rate 48371 Regular Decision Applicants 2121 Regular Decision Admitted* 4.4% Regular Decision Admit Rate *Includes Early Decision applicants who were deferred to Regular Decision. Demographic Information of the Admitted Class of 2025 Listed by home address, not filtered by citizenship. National: 50 States, Puerto Rico, D.C., Guam, USVI International: 101 Countries Admitted Class of 2025 Self-identify as students of color* International (by home address) First-generation *according to IPEDS classification. For more details on IPEDS go to this link. Sex Female Male High School Achievement Performance in high school is the single most important factor in the student selection process at Penn. However, because grading and ranking policies are different around the country and the globe, it is difficult to pinpoint one metric for a student's success in the classroom. The most competitive applicants have pursued a rigorous program of study and achieved top grades in the context of their school. Testing Self-reported testing means for the middle 50 percent of admitted students. All matriculating students must provide official score reports to verify their self-reported testing prior to enrolling at the University. For more information, please see our testing page. Please note: In response to COVID-19, Penn will not require applicants to submit the SAT, ACT, or SAT Subject Tests for the 2021-22 application cycle. This applies to first-year and transfer applicants. Applicants who do not submit SAT, ACT, or SAT Subject Test scores will not be at a disadvantage in the admissions process. Students who are able to take the SAT, ACT, and/or SAT Subject Tests and wish to report them may continue with that plan. SAT 1490-1560 ACT Composite 35-36 This information is accurate as of September 2021 as generated by Penn Undergraduate Admissions. 1 College Hall, Room 1, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6376 Footer Menu Join the mailing list Contact Us Accessibility Privacy Policy NACAC Partnership Agreement