Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Admissions and Arrival » Orientation & Check-in Set Navigation title in component Cost and Finances Apply to UC Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in International Orientation & Check-in The University of Cincinnati looks forward to the arrival of all of our new students. Use this page to get ready to come to the United States, travel to Cincinnati and check-in safely at UC. Complete the pre-arrival checklist Get helpful travel tips Check in at the university View the orientation schedule Follow COVID guidelines for arrival Complete the mandatory health screening Before you arrive Before you come to the United States, you need to complete the following tasks: Apply for and receive your visa. Reserve a flight to Cincinnati. Complete all of the items on the pre-arrival checklist in iBearcatsGlobal. The checklist is under "Limited iStart Services." Complete the required online orientation. The online orientation provides you with important information that will help prepare you for living and studying in the US. You can access the online orientation any time prior to your first day of classes at UC. Travel to Cincinnati Before you leave, shop around for airfare, taking note of baggage regulations, price, and other amenities before selecting an airline. Purchase a ticket at least one month before you are supposed to arrive in the U.S. If you are sponsored by the government or a private organization, communicate your travel arrangements to your sponsors and check in before and after arrival. Make sure that your flight schedule allows enough time between connecting flights. At the airport right arrow down arrow Arrive for your flight at least 3 hours before departure. Travel with your passport, visa, and I-20/DS-2019 in your carry-on luggage. Keep other important items in your carry-on, like prescription eyeglasses, a bilingual dictionary, medication, or a change of clothes. Bring enough money for unexpected expenses or events, such as a missed flight. Keep this money hidden! Be prepared to go through US customs after you arrive in the United States. The Department of Homeland Security website has a great description of what you will expect during this process. Arrive on campus right arrow down arrow Arrange for a family member, friend, or supervisor to meet you at the airport if you can. If not, you can use the Airport Executive Shuttle following the pre-arrival checklist instructions in iBearcatsGlobal. Once you arrive on campus, try to get familiar with the area. UC International has many resources to help you when you first get here, like temporary housing (if you're waiting to get into an apartment), transportation options, and more! Housing / Temporary Housing / Hotels Transportation Maps & Directions Airport shuttle information for new international students right arrow down arrow UC International offers a free ride to campus for new international students when they first arrive. The service is provided by Airport Executive Shuttle. You must reserve a ride in advance using the form available in the iBearcatsGlobal pre-arrival checklist. Immigration check-in Once you arrive in Cincinnati, you are required to complete the “Immigration Review” and “Registering for Events” sections of the pre-arrival checklist in iBearcatsGlobal. You must arrive in Cincinnati in time to complete these processes and to attend other required events before classes begin. The earliest you may enter the U.S. is 30 days before the start date on your I-20/DS-2019. Watch Spring 2022 Arrival Webinar Watch Spring 2022 Welcome Presentation When should I arrive in the U.S.? (Summer + Fall Semester 2022) You must arrive in Cincinnati in time to complete the immigration review and to attend other required events before classes begin. The earliest you may enter the U.S. is 30 days before the start date on your I-20 / DS-2019. Summer Semester 2022: Classes begin on May 9, 2022. The recommended arrival date for international students is May 1, 2022 or before. Fall Semester 2022: Classes begin on August 22, 2022. The recommended arrival date for international students is August 14, 2022 or before. When you will arrive is related to whether or not you will live in on-campus housing. If you will be living in university housing Students must be fully vaccinated for COVID according to guidelines established by the University and the U.S. government. In addition, you must produce a negative COVID test within 24 hours of boarding your plane. Please read the COVID Guidelines for Arrival for more details. Plan to arrive on August 14, 2022. You can move into your housing unit on Saturday, August 13 without an additional housing cost. However, you will be required to complete an Early Arrival Form that will be posted on the Housing website in late June. If necessary, you can apply for early arrival housing August 10-12, 2022 understanding: You will be charged a nightly fee (usually around $40/night) Parents cannot stay with you in your room Sheets and linens are not provided Halls will have limited staff Meal plans will not be in effect Arriving before August 14 requires completion of the Early Arrival Form. If you plan to arrive before August 10, 2022, you will need to make your own arrangements for accommodations at local hotels. Best practice would be to arrive and move into housing on Saturday, August 13 to account for any unexpected travel delays and ensure that students will be ready for their orientation activities that start on Monday, August 15. If you will be living off campus Students with off-campus housing can arrive up to 30 days in advance of your I-20 or DS-2019 start date. Temporary accommodations cannot be provided by the University. Students must be fully vaccinated for COVID according to guidelines established by the University and the U.S. government. In addition, you must produce a negative COVID test within 24 hours of boarding your plane. Please read the COVID Guidelines for Arrival for the full quarantine and testing information. Documents for your immigration review right arrow down arrow You will use personal information and copies of the following immigration documents to complete the Immigration Review in iBearcatsGlobal: your passport your I-94 record (download online) your I-20/DS-2019 any previous immigration documents you may have, such as: I-20 or DS-2019 forms Work permits I-797 approval notices or receipts You will be scheduled for mandatory events like health screenings, orientations, and onboarding. Go to iBearcatsGlobal Mandatory health screening right arrow down arrow One of your mandatory events is a health screening at University Health Services (UHS). You will receive a letter and immunization record sheet in the packet that contains your I-20 / DS-2019. Make sure you: Read the letter and have your healthcare provider complete the immunization record sheet. Receive any required immunizations before you arrive in the United States. Upload the form to Med+Proctor and bring the form with you to your health screening. Instructions will be emailed to you. Complete your pre-arrival checklist in iBearcatsGlobal to receive instructions on making a health screening appointment upon arrival. Complete an eform providing person information. Call University Health Services at 513-556-2564 to schedule your health screening once you are in Cincinnati. Attend your health screening appointment. Vaccination requirements COVID Guidelines for Arrival right arrow down arrow COVID Guidelines for Arrival Please see the university's public health website for guidelines concerning travel, vaccination requirements, COVID-19 testing, and quarantine. Public Health website Orientation Schedule Fall 2022 New Undergraduate Student Orientation New Student Orientation registration is available after a student confirms their admission. New Student Orientation is also called Bearcat Bound Orientation (BBO). BBO for international students will take place on August 15-17, 2022. International undergraduate students are required to attend a virtual Bearcat Bound Orientation to learn about academic advising and the course registration process earlier in the summer. At these sessions, you will learn how to schedule an appointment with your academic advisor where you will register for your first semester schedule of classes. All students are required to register and attend both the Virtual Advising Prep Session and BBO in August. Welcome Week events occur the week of August 14 - 21, 2022. See the Welcome Week website for more details. Wednesday, August 17 | Welcome Event for Graduate Students right arrow down arrow Wednesday, August 17 | Welcome Event for Graduate Students 12:30 - 2:30pm | TUC Great Hall Join UC International and IPALs for this high energy welcome event. You will be connected to other new students and our campus community in a fun and engaging way. Thursday, August 18 | Virtual Video / Panel Presentation for Undergraduates and Graduates right arrow down arrow Thursday, August 18 | UC International Services Virtual Panel Presentation Join the UC International Services’ Virtual Panel Discussion for essential information regarding immigration advising and international student services and support. We will answer questions relating to your immigration status, connect you to campus, community resources and events that will help you thrive at UC. This session is open to both undergraduate and graduate students. Virtual breakout sessions following panel presentation Employment Tips for Academic Success Join the Zoom meeting Thursday, August 18 | Welcome Event for Undergraduates right arrow down arrow Thursday, August 18 | "Team Pursuit" Welcome Event for Undergraduates 1:00pm - 3:00pm | TUC Great Hall Join UC International and the IPALs in this high energy welcome event. Your group will compete in a series of challenges, submitting fun videos, photos, text, and/or trivia responses through a smartphone app. The challenges require teamwork, communication skills, problem solving, creativity, and strategizing to succeed. The team that completes the most challenges wins! We promise fun and a chance to make new friends. Friday, August 19 | Employment Onboarding for Graduate Assistants right arrow down arrow Friday, August 19 | Onboarding for Graduate Assistants (I-9 Employment Verification) 9:00am - 4:00pm | UC International, 7148 Edwards Center One Sunday, August 21 | Welcome Week - Soccer & Sno-Cones right arrow down arrow Sunday, August 21 | IPALs Soccer & Sno-Cones 11:00am - 2:00pm | Sheakley Lawn Enjoy a sno-cone and play soccer with new friends! UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top