Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Our Town: Hanover, NH Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Hanover, New Hampshire Hanover is frequently judged one of the best places to live in the United States because it balances local and global, friendly and efficient, casual and sophisticated. And the heart of Hanover is on Dartmouth's doorstep. The strong sense of community and rich cultural life of the college fuel, and are fueled by, the town and the region. Just across the street from the Dartmouth Green, you'll find a tantalizing range of culinary adventures—Thai, Mexican, Chinese, Indian, Italian, American—not to mention pizzerias, bakeries, cafés, and the country's best gelato. The Hanover Chamber of Commerce lists more than two dozen food and beverage options. The region—traditional homelands of the Abenaki people—supports major teaching hospitals, a burgeoning high-tech sector with global connections, and an arts scene that perfectly complements Dartmouth's own cultural offerings. The award-winning Hopkins Center for the Arts is at the heart of campus and the town, and world-class productions by Opera North and Northern Stage are just 15 minutes away. For skiing, hiking, and autumn leaf-peeping, the natural environment surrounding Hanover is an ideal playground. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog Alumni Interview I sat down with my friend, Ali '20, who conducts interviews, to gain some insight into what students should expect for the interviews. Read More Caroline York 2025 Celebrating Family Weekend Some of you planning to attend Dartmouth as international students may be thinking, "How will I celebrate the family weekend at Dartmouth?" Isn't it something I need a family for? How will my family get to Dartmouth from the far ends of the earth? Read More Adrian Chimboza 2025 Spring Weekend at Dartmouth April showers really do bring May flowers. Spring in Hanover is truly indescribable; in a matter of days, the trees on campus regrow their lush green leaves and flowers bloom on every corner. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Family Weekend at Dartmouth Last weekend was a very special weekend here at Dartmouth! Parents weekend! On this wonderful weekend I was able to meet all the wonderful parents and alumnus that came back to visit this wonderful place we call home. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 It's "Why Dartmouth?" Time – Part 2 (Home) The second and final post of my "Why Dartmouth?" story. Reflecting on my decision to attend and move to Dartmouth College! Read More Gavin Fry 2025 Interviewing A Dartmouth Professor As Dartmouth prepares to welcome the incoming Class of 2026 this fall, I was inspired to interview Professor Doyle and understand what makes Dartmouth such a unique and exciting community from a professor's perspective. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Why Did I Choose Dartmouth? Why Dartmouth? Academics, definitely, is not everything. Read More Daniel Kang 2025 Are You Visiting Dartmouth? So you've decided to visit Dartmouth? I mean it definitely feels quite out of the way, but definitely is totally worth it! Read More Chase Harvey 2025 Photo Diary: First Half of Junior Spring See some parts of my life through photos! Read More Love Tsai 2023 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback