Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Apply / Portfolios & Auditions custom css-js - global Portfolios & Auditions Any Tulane student can take visual or performing arts classes, audition for plays or ensembles, or take private lessons with an instructor without being a major or minor in that specific art. With this in mind, we welcome the chance to see your past creative work as a way of strengthening your application to the university. No audition or portfolio is required for admission to the university, but the inclusion of a portfolio can only help your application, never hurt it. Submission Instructions In order to carry weight in an admission decision, creative materials should be added to your application as soon as possible after your application is submitted; as no creative supplements are required for admission to the university, the admission committee will not wait to receive such materials before reviewing an application. Visual and Performing Arts Since portfolios are not required, there are no parameters about the content you can share with us. You are welcome to submit your portfolio in whatever form you choose, whether it be a link to a website, attached document, recording or video. Hard copy materials will not be accepted in any medium. All electronic submissions be uploaded to the “Optional Portfolio” section of your Green Wave Portal once you have completed the general admission application. Architecture A portfolio is highly recommended for students interested in Architecture because it may strengthen an application. Please upload 10 pieces representing the breadth of your design experience, including a couple of examples of freehand drawing. Please do not send architectural drafting exercises because we prefer to see your creativity rather than your drafting skills. Other architectural exercises, such as perspective drawings or models, are welcome. Hard copy materials will not be accepted in any medium. All submissions should be uploaded to the “Optional Portfolio” section of your Green Wave Portal once you have completed the general admission application. If you are applying to Tulane via the Common App, you will be sent the login credentials to your Green Wave Portal after you submit your application. Please wait until you receive these login credentials to submit you portfolio, otherwise you will be prompted to complete a new application. Architecture Portfolio Award One-time scholarship worth up to $10,000 Only open to admitted students who have applied Early Decision or Early Action and have designated Architecture as their first or second major on their Tulane application Requires submission of a digital portfolio through your Green Wave Portal Reviewed by Office of Undergraduate Admission and Tulane School of Architecture To be considered: Submit your digital portfolio immediately after you submit your application for admission Selected candidates will be invited to interview either in person or via Skype Winners are notified in March Questions about Architecture? Contact Bailey Gabrish at bgabrish@tulane.edu Musicianship Scholarship $5,000 per year merit-based award Reviewed by a committee of Newcomb Department of Music faculty members Requires submission of an application which contains a portfolio component Please refer to the “Musicianship Scholarship Application Guidelines” section below to see the parameters by concentration Students are only able to apply within one of the following concentrations: Jazz Studies, Music Composition, Music Performance (Instrumental), Music Performance (Vocal), and Musical Theatre To be considered: Students must already be accepted into Tulane University having designated any music concentration as either their first or second major Complete the Musicianship Scholarship application through your Green Wave Portal by February 15 Winners are notified in mid-March Musicianship Scholarship Application Guidelines Jazz Studies Jazz studies students should provide three or more contrasting pieces, at least one of which is a standard. These pieces will only be considered if they are videotaped. This material can be uploaded to the “portfolio” section of the Musicianship Scholarship Application (found on the Green Wave Portal). Music Composition Composition students should provide sheet music and/or recordings of two to four original pieces in any style. The pieces do not need to be complete; sketches, pieces in progress, and improvisations are all acceptable. This material can be uploaded to the “portfolio” section of the Musicianship Scholarship Application (found on the Green Wave Portal). Music Performance (Instrumental) Piano students should prepare movements from three pieces in contrasting periods (Baroque, Classical, Romantic, or Modern), and at least one a major work. Other instrumentalists should prepare a major piece, such as a movement of a standard concerto, a shorter contrasting piece, and an etude. These pieces will only be considered if they are videotaped. This material can be uploaded to the “portfolio” section of the Musicianship Scholarship Application (found on the Green Wave Portal). Music Performance (Vocal) Vocal performance students should prepare three complete songs or arias (no cuts) in contrasting styles, including at least one in a foreign language. These pieces will only be considered if they are videotaped. This material can be uploaded to the “portfolio” section of the Musicianship Scholarship Application (found on the Green Wave Portal). Musical Theatre Musical theatre students should prepare three complete songs (no cuts) in contrasting styles, at least one predating 1980. An art song or aria in English or a foreign language may also be included. Students may also include an optional one-minute monologue. These pieces will only be considered if they are videotaped. This material can be uploaded to the “portfolio” section of the Musicianship Scholarship Application (found on the Green Wave Portal). Questions about Performing and Visual Arts? Contact Angel Carter at acarte3@tulane.edu. Getting Into Tulane Class of 2026 Profile Interview Tips Plan Your Summer Tips for High School Juniors Instructions Curriculum Requirements Standardized Tests Application Status Deadlines & Forms Portfolios & Auditions Home-schooled Students Louisiana Applicants Gap Year Information Prior Criminal Conviction Did You Know? In 2014, Tulane opened Yulman Stadium—entirely funded by private donations—and moved Green Wave football back to the Uptown campus for the first time in 40 years. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University