Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Chidera Duru Class of 2025 back Click to Close Bio Hi guys! I'm Chidera and I'm a '25 from Lagos, Nigeria. I've lived in a big city for nearly half of my life, so I'm excited to explore the scenic outdoor spaces surrounding Dartmouth. I love trying new things, so I just signed up for Dartmouth's archery team! Other than that, I can't wait to get involved in The Dartmouth Alliance For Children Of Color, the Political Economy Project, and The Dartmouth Outing Club. Most of all, I'm looking forward to sharing my Dartmouth experience with you! Academic Program Economics, African and African American Studies Favorite Thing Right Now Cup noodles! Hometown Lagos, Nigeria Pronouns she/her/hers About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Spring Term Classes back Click to Close Chidera's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallHanover Favorite Class: Introduction to Biological Anthropology Taking this class was a random and unexpected decision that I am so happy I made. This class was about the intersection between human and primate evolution and our social behaviors. It really opened my eyes to how unique and beautifully diverse different societies are, and how this uniqueness influences our biology in interesting ways. WinterHanover Favorite Class: Essential Mathematics for Economic Analysis Taught by Professor Doyle, this has been my favorite class at Dartmouth so far. It was a calculus integrated with economic applications of the concepts we learned. It was the first time this class was offered at Dartmouth, and Professor Doyle made sure we all had a thorough understanding of the material. The fact that we were also able to see the real-world applications of the calculus concepts also made the class uniquely interesting. « All Posts by this Blogger Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. No. 1 Paris In The 19th Century (ARTH 7) Dartmouth requires that all freshmen complete a first year-writing requirement which includes one or two writing courses and a first-year seminar in one of Dartmouth’s academic departments. In my first-year seminar, I took a class in the Art History department called “Paris in the 19th Century. In this class, we discuss Impressionist artists and their paintings, as well as the political, social and economic situations that inspired their art. This class has been a great opportunity to apply the writing skills I learned in my previous writing classes to analyzing art and art history. I’m also really excited for our final project where we select an Impressionist art and a particular theme in their artwork to discuss in a paper and a class presentation. No. 2 Introduction to Statistical Methods (ECON 10) This term, I’m also taking an introductory statistics class. I needed to take a statistics class as a prerequisite for my internship this summer. Several Dartmouth departments each offer statistics classes, so I decided to take one in the economics department that would simultaneously fulfill a major prerequisite. Although this class has been a bit challenging, it has given me a unique and essential insight into the field of economic research. There has also been a lot of support in this class through the help of our professor and teaching assistants, who both offer office hours at least once a week, and a peer tutor from Dartmouth’s Peer Tutoring Program. My favorite thing about this class has been the group presentations we do, in which we are assigned a research paper that employs some of the statistical methods we learn in class to discuss and present during class periods. These presentations have been a great opportunity to understand the nuances of economics research in real-world situations. No. 3 Introductory Economics, The Price System (ECON 1) Lastly, I took an introductory economics class, which is a prerequisite for almost every economics class at Dartmouth. As an aspiring economics major, I felt it would be helpful to take this class in my freshman year to be able to explore the economics major further in my second year. In this class, we learn the concepts and ideas that form the basis of economic theory and analysis. I especially love this class because of how small it is, and how much we’re all able to interact with and learn from our professor. At the end of the term, we each get to put together a final project where we apply the concepts we have learned to any topic of our interest. Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/30/2022 at 9:00 AMAll List Posts Classes class Economics Art History statistics stats Finals Research Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Posts You Might Like Visit the Blog A Letter to Freshman Year With freshman year coming to a close, I wrote a Thank You note to one of the best years! Read More Caroline York 2025 Goodbye, 22S Happy last week of classes! Here are some of my reflections from my junior spring. Read More Love Tsai 2023 Greenkey: dancing in a field to internationally famous mucisians in Hanover! Dartmouth has too many traditions to name, but Greenkey is one of the best ones! Read on to find out about my experience this year! Read More Luke Grayson 2025 Freshman Year: A Retrospective A look back at my first year at Dartmouth! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 Taking my Professor to Lunch! Here's a reflection on my experience taking my computer science professor out for a free meal paid for by the school! Read More Jack Heaphy 2024 Work Hard, Play Hard: A Green Key Weekend at Dartmouth! After two years, Dartmouth's annual spring festival, known affectionately as Green Key, occurred this weekend! The weekend held many events, but even so, I saw the Dartmouth culture of work hard, play hard. Read More Tulio Huggins 2023 Saint Motel Meets Hanover: Green Key 2022! As the 23s, 24s, and 25s shared our first Green Key together, Dartmouth ended up bringing my middle-school self's favorite band to campus: here's how my Green Key went! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Green Key!!!!!! It's a Dartmouth tradition to celebrate Green Key every spring. What exactly is Green Key you ask? In short, it is one of the best weekends ever. Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 Art Classes at Dartmouth Here are the courses my friends and I have taken to fulfill the distributive requirement for art. Read More Eda Naz Gokdemir 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback