Menu Undergraduate Admission Home Prepare for College Visit Visit Georgia Tech Prepare for Your Visit Explore Atlanta Virtual Visits Apply First-Year Admission Transfer Admission International Applicants International First-Year Applicants International Transfer Applicants Other Programs Dual Enrollment Non-Degree Programs 62 and Older Program Counselors Contact Us Contact Us Join Mailing List Blog Check Application Status International First-Year Admission With over 1,000 undergraduate international students, Georgia Tech is home to a thriving, globally diverse population. We are excited to welcome applicants from all over the world! International Student Application Process In our admission process, we closely review your specific academic background and particular educational system in order to make the most appropriate admission decision for each student. Applications are read within the context from which you are applying. For example, if you are from Panama but living in Illinois, your application will be read with those from Illinois. Likewise, if you are from Illinois but living in France, your application will be read with those from France. If you have been enrolled in high schools in more than one location, your application will be reviewed in context of each location. International first-year applicants go through the same application process as all other students, regardless of residency. However, transcript requirements may vary (see below). English Language Proficiency Requirements Georgia Tech is a lively and collaborative atmosphere, and it is imperative that students have the ability to contribute to classroom discussions and engage in the Georgia Tech community outside of the classroom. All international applicants must demonstrate English proficiency using a University System approved method. Note that our office will also accept the TOEFL Home Edition, the IELTS Indicator, and the Duolingo English Test. Additionally, in support of their admission application, non-native English speakers can choose to submit a recorded, unscripted interview through a third-party provider such as InitialView or Vericant. English Proficiency Requirements International Transcript Requirements We recognize that many educational systems around the world do not fit the four-year US high school model. We require academic records from each year of your secondary school experience to evaluate your application for admission. If your high school curriculum is fewer than four years of study, you will need to submit a fourth year of transcripts in order to enroll. International Baccalaureate Requirements for Application Credentials Needed to Enroll Additional Comments Transcripts for each year of secondary school study completed Predicted IB scores are strongly recommended International Baccalaureate Diploma There is no minimum IB score needed to apply, but to be competitive, students should have mostly scores of 6 and 7. Higher Level Math and Sciences courses are encouraged but not required to be competitive for admission. British Patterned Requirements for Application Credentials Needed to Enroll Additional Comments Transcripts for each year of secondary school study completed IGCSE/O-Level results, AS Level results, predicted A-Level results General Certificate of Secondary Education To be competitive for admission, students should be on track to complete at least 3 full A-levels before enrolling at Georgia Tech. French Patterned Requirements for Application Credentials Needed to Enroll Bullitins de Notes (Transcripts) for each year of study completed English translation required Baccalauréat Indian National Curriculum Requirements for Application Credentials Needed to Enroll Class X board results and XI internal marks Predicted XII board results are strongly recommended XII Board Results Other International Curriculum Requirements for Application Credentials Needed to Enroll Additional Comments Transcripts for each year of secondary school study completed* English translation, if necessary Students will need to complete the level of education that would allow them to enroll in a competitive university in their home country. In some cases, to be competitive for admission to Georgia Tech, students may need to complete an additional course of study to be competitive for admission. For instance, most competitive applicants from the Nigerian national curriculum will complete an additional course of study such as A-Levels or the IB program following completion of the WAEC. Please email admission@gatech.edu with questions about specific education systems. *If your high school curriculum is fewer than four years of study, you will need to submit a fourth year of transcripts in order to enroll. For instance, if you complete high school in China where high school consists of 10, 11, and 12 grades, you will also need to submit a copy of 9 grade transcripts before enrolling. Post-Secondary Qualifications Students are only eligible to apply for first-year admission if they have NOT completed university coursework following high school graduation. If you have completed any university* coursework following the completion of high school, you will need to apply as a transfer student. This does not include students studying advanced coursework in a secondary setting (such as an A-Level curriculum) *Note that this does include students enrolled in a Malaysian ADTP. International Classification Any non-US citizen is considered an international student for enrollment purposes. Learn more about the visa process and tuition classification. Tuition and Immigration Connect with Us The Georgia Tech International Ambassadors (GTIA) are a group of student volunteers from all over the world. The International Ambassadors are united in their eagerness to share the Georgia Tech international student experience with prospective students from around the globe. GTIA would love to connect with you. Email GTIA Attend a Virtual International Webinar Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology This website uses cookies. For more information, review our Privacy & Legal Notice. Questions? Please email privacy@gatech.edu. OK