Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Academics At Brown you’ll have the freedom to study what you choose and the flexibility to discover what you love. Sub Navigation In This Section Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Academics At Brown you’ll have the freedom to study what you choose and the flexibility to discover what you love. Educational Innovation A Brown education pushes students to be creative thinkers, intellectual risk-takers and entrepreneurial problem-solvers. Faculty at Brown see students as the center of academic life. Professors are experts in their fields and are dedicated to high-quality, innovative teaching and learning. Perhaps most importantly, they are mentors and guides who are deeply invested in the success and growth of Brown’s undergraduates. Brown has earned a global reputation for its innovative undergraduate educational experience. The Open Curriculum At most universities, students must complete a set of core courses. At Brown, you'll develop your own personalized course of study. You’ll sample courses in a wide range of subjects before immersing yourself in one of 80+ academic concentrations (what you might call a major) for in-depth, focused study, perhaps complemented by a certificate program to further your preparation for life after Brown. Undergraduate Concentrations More about the Open Curriculum Certificates Beyond the Classroom Brown students learn to confront, address and solve problems facing society, the nation and the world. This dedication to making a real impact touches every part of the academic experience. The accomplishments of Brown students are numerous and varied and include: Decoding the secrets of a manuscript from Timbuktu Synthesizing compounds to fight tuberculosis Inventing new musical instruments Taking part in a United Nations convention on climate change Graduates leave Brown prepared to thrive as independent, innovative leaders, no matter what path they choose. As part of a summer research project, Michael Demanche lowers a sensor probe to collect critical data on the health of Narragansett Bay. “ Students don't just study in classrooms and think passively about how to solve society's problems and injustices — they take action to solve them. ” Michael Demanche Geology, Class of 2018 Tweet this quote Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Academics Open details for Academics Bookmark this Page