Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Tour Visit Apply × Close Menu Affordability at TU Apply Apply First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Graduate Applicants Law Applicants Other Students Credit By Exam Financial Aid Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Free Application for Federal Student Aid Visit Campus Visit Campus Academic Webinars Plan Your Individual Visit Preview TU Group Visits University Ambassadors Area Hotels Directions to Campus Maps Explore Tulsa Virtual Tour Special Programs Special Programs Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars Student Life Student Life International Student Services Housing & Dining Student Organizations Campus Recreation Career Services Health Center Student Accessibility New Student Programs Office of Student Affairs Find Your Admission Counselor Request Information Quick Links News Events Calendar Maps Athletics Contact TU Information For... Future Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Veteran Students Undergraduate Students International Students Graduate Students Law Students Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How do I interview for admission? Where is the new student checklist? How do I schedule a visit? What majors are offered? How much does TU cost? How can I transfer to TU? Close Search Link to site home page Office of Admission > Group Visits Group Visits VISIT Plan Your Individual Visit Preview TU Tulsa Time True Blue Focus Days Parent Events Group Visits Guidelines For chaperoned groups (10 or more students) visiting campus, we offer tours and information sessions on Wednesdays at 10:30 a.m. Central Time. We are able to accommodate groups of up to 40 high school students for our official group visits. If your group does not fit this description, we welcome you to visit campus in a different capacity; please see “Other Groups” below for additional information. Maximum group size is 40 students. Visits last approximately 90 minutes and include an admission presentation and a campus tour. Group tours must be requested at least three weeks before the proposed date. Schedule Your Group Visit Here Group tours are offered on Wednesday at 10:30 a.m. Central Time. The admission office will accommodate as many of your requests as possible; however, some dates are not available due to campus events (final exams, spring break, holidays, etc.). Groups traveling to campus by bus can be dropped off at the Office of Undergraduate Admission in Collins Hall (2905 E. 8th Street). Bus parking is available on campus in the Reynolds Center Parking Lots. View our campus map. Groups affiliated with a specific high school may request additional programming through the high school’s assigned admission counselor. Other Groups If your group is larger than 40 students, not made up of high school students, or if the date you plan to come is not available, please email visit@utulsa.edu with the following details: Date of requested visit Group Name Group Description Number of Visitors Group Contact (name, phone number, and e-mail) While we will do everything we can to make your time on campus enjoyable, please note that we cannot guarantee meeting space for groups larger than 40 students or younger than 9th grade, nor can we guarantee a formal visit program. Lunch on Campus While students are welcome to eat lunch on campus, the Admission Office is unable to provide meals to groups. Students may bring their own lunches or eat at one of the dining establishments on campus. To coordinate lunch in our Student Union or Pat Case Dining Center, please contact Sodexo Dining Services at (918) 631-2145 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT