Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Transfer planning resources Apply Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Home Office of Admissions Apply Transfer Transfer planning resources Transfer Home Transfer How to apply Application fee English proficiency Sending transcripts Transfer personal statement Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Alternatives to the English requirement for admission Majors requiring college math Transfer GPA A Level & AS Level exams A Level & AS Level exams Advanced Placement (AP) International Baccalaureate (IB) Transfer credit policies Washington 45 WA CC Equivalency Guide Bates Technical College Bellevue College Bellingham Technical College Big Bend Community College Cascadia College Centralia College Clark College Clover Park Technical College Columbia Basin College Edmonds Community College Equivalency Guide Manual Equivalency Review Process Everett Community College Grays Harbor College Green River College Highline College Lake Washington Institute of Technology Lower Columbia College Northwest Indian College Olympic College Peninsula College Pierce College Renton Technical College Seattle Colleges Shoreline Community College Skagit Valley College South Puget Sound Community College Spokane Community Colleges Tacoma Community College Walla Walla Community College Wenatchee Valley College Whatcom Community College Yakima Valley College Transfer planning resources Academic Planning Worksheets MyMajor Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Transfer guidelines for special admission & appeal Transfer planning resources Transferring to the UW takes careful planning: You’ll be working simultaneously on various requirements for admission to the UW, for your intended major, for graduation from the UW and possibly for an associate degree. The more you work on multiple requirements at the same time, the smoother and more successful your transfer to the UW will be. No matter where you are in the process, our comprehensive transfer student portal will guide you through this journey. Academic Planning Worksheets Academic Planning Worksheets are available for each major and are designed to be used in conjunction with other resources and, of course, advisers. MyMajor Different majors have different admission policies. Make sure you understand the details for your intended major. MyMajor is an interactive tool for transfer students that lets you see essential information about your intended major. Equivalency guide How will the classes you’ve taken transfer to the UW? Find out using the UW Equivalency Guide for Washington Community and Technical Colleges. MyPlan transfer planner See the Equivalency Guide in action. MyPlan helps you determine how courses you’ve taken or plan to take at Washington community or technical colleges translate to progress toward a UW degree. Course catalog Explore the breadth and depth of course offerings through the Course Catalog. There are more than 2,000 to choose from every quarter. Transfer Thursday All prospective transfer students are invited to attend Transfer Thursday prior to applying to the UW. Career & Internship Center Get help with your résumé, explore internship and job opportunities, practice your interviewing skills or attend a workshop through the Career & Internship Center. Academic Support Programs Want to dive deeper into a class discussion? Need a little tutoring? How about a hand with a paper or preparation for a big test? Academic Support Programs have got your back. Husky Health & Well-Being The UW offers a wide range of health and wellness services, from exceptional medical care and counseling services to recreation classes, safety resources, peer advocates, trainings and more. Visit Husky Health & Well-Being for more details. Counseling Center The UW Counseling Center provides a safe environment for students to explore challenges in their lives through counseling, outreach, workshops and consultation. Services are free and confidential for students enrolled on the Seattle campus. Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity (OMA&D) The Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity (OMA&D) offers a family of services that assist students from their first year through graduate school, including academic support programs, financial aid counseling and opportunities, and social and cultural activities. Want to connect with someone before you become a UW student? Multicultural Outreach and Recruitment (M.O.R.) is a department in OMA&D that’s committed to serving students from pre-college to enrollment. Contact MOR today. wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House Built in longhouse style, wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House is a learning and gathering space for American Indian and Alaska Native students, faculty and staff, as well as others from various cultures and communities, to come together and share knowledge in a welcoming environment. Disability Resources for Students Disability Resources for Students (DRS) is dedicated to ensuring access and inclusion for all students with disabilities on the Seattle campus. For questions that can be addressed in 15 minutes or less, prospective students may speak with a DRS access coordinator on duty without an appointment. For more complex questions, please contact the DRS office to schedule an appointment. International Student Services International Student Services advises on F-1 and J-1 visa regulations, immigration policies and compliance, including the benefits and restrictions under federal immigration laws. First Year Programs First Year Programs provides programs and services to help students thrive on campus. Through small seminar offerings, welcome week programming, or a place to call home in the Commuter and Transfer Commons students began to shape their husky experience Campus Safety The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act), as part of the Higher Education Opportunity Act, is a federal law that requires colleges and universities to disclose certain timely and annual information about campus crime and security policies. All public and private institutions of postsecondary education participating in federal student-aid programs are subject to this requirement. Read the annual security report for more information. Resources Meet our students UW social Disability resources University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA