Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Video Introduction Is the video introduction required? Will it impact my application if I don't submit a video? While the video introduction is not a required component of the admission process, we do encourage students to submit one when possible. We have found that video introductions are a personal and engaging way to convey more about yourself beyond the written application, and allow admission officers to get to know you in your own voice. If you do not submit a video, we will thoroughly consider your application with all of the other information available. What is the purpose of the video? What information should I include? The video introduction is intended to provide an opportunity to tell us more about yourself, in your voice, beyond the information you provided in your application. You are welcome to discuss anything that might help us get to know you better. Some possible topics, along with Video Introduction Tips, can provide a general idea of what you might consider. My video is over two minutes long. Is that okay? As with application essay word counts, we have set length limits to better enable equity among applicants and provide a clear sense of what we are hoping the video introduction will convey. Two minutes should be all that is needed to effectively share your brief introduction through your video. I'm having trouble uploading my video. What should I do? Should you experience difficulties uploading your file, please ensure that you're using a modern web browser (Chrome, Firefox, or Safari) on the fastest Internet connection available. Wired connections may be more reliable than wireless, as an intermittent or slow Internet connection can cause uploads to timeout. We support media files as large as 5GB, but please be advised that larger files will take longer to upload from your Internet connection and may stall if you are on a wireless connection or one that cannot sustain a connection for the necessary period of time. We support the following video file formats: .3g2, .3gp, .avi, .m2v, .m4v, .mkv, .mpeg, .mpg, .mp4, .mxf, .webm, .wmv. These instructions are also available in your Brown Applicant Portal. I uploaded my video but cannot review it. How can I review/access it? Once uploaded, video introductions cannot be reviewed, so please make sure to preview your video before uploading to the Brown Applicant Portal. Due to the high volume of videos that we receive each year, we cannot review submissions to confirm a successful upload on an individual basis. We will be in touch by email if there are any technical issues that require your attention and resubmission. Can I remove the video I uploaded and submit a new one? As with the submission of the Common Application and Brown Supplement, once you have uploaded your video introduction through your Brown Applicant Portal, your submission is considered final. Uploaded videos are not able to be accessed or edited, and unless there has been a technical issue that prevents us from being able to view your video, we are unable to remove videos to allow for resubmission. I did not receive any confirmation that my video was received; can you confirm that you received my video? Your Brown Applicant Portal will display a confirmation message if your video introduction has been successfully received. If you do not see a confirmation message and your portal still shows an option to upload a video, please submit your video again. Once we have received your video, we will be in touch by email if there are any technical issues that require your attention and resubmission. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Video Introduction Open details for Video Introduction Bookmark this Page