Skip to content utexas.edu Faculty Careers Areas of Study Provost's Office Search Search The Office Initiatives Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News Resources Faculty & Academic Resources Academic Personnel Services provides guidance and support on a number of topics, such as hiring, leave, and promotion and tenure. Keep Reading Finance, Reporting & Compliance Information on official university polices as related to compliance, academic budgeting, finance, required business processes, and related resources. Keep Reading Directory Search our directory for the staff and offices of the Executive Vice President and Provost. Keep Reading Home ▸ The Office ▸ Enrollment Management ▸ Admissions Research Admissions Research Latest Reports and Information Report to the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives on the Implementation of SB 175 (PDF) (December 2018) This report is the eighth in a series of annual reports about the progress The University of Texas at Austin has made in recruiting a talented and diverse student body in the five areas outlined by SB 175. See the Texas Feeder School Supplement (PDF) for additional information. The Performance of Students Attending The University of Texas at Austin as a Result of the Coordinated Admission Program (PDF) (May 2016) This is the thirteenth in a series of reports on the performance of students entering the university through the Coordinated Admission Program (CAP). The cohort applied for freshman admission for the fall of 2013, completed a minimum of 30 hours of coursework at a UT System school, and transferred to UT Austin for their sophomore year. This cohort is referred to as CAP13. Number of Texas High Schools Represented in the Entering Freshman Class, 2017 (PDF) (July 2018) This is an annual addendum to a 2010 study that developed a consistent methodology for counting Texas high schools sending its graduates to UT Austin (this 2017 report includes students enrolled in PACE). More Resources Fisher v. UT Austin Institutional Reporting, Research and Information Systems (includes Statistical Handbook and Common Data Set) Reports & Information Program Reports Student Profiles Texas Feeder Schools Contact Us Phone 512-471-4363 Fax 512-475-7385 Email provost.office@utexas.edu 110 Inner Campus Dr. STOP G1000 Austin, TX 78712-1701 Related Public Access to Course Information (HB2504) Faculty & Academic Resources Quicklinks The Office Initiatives Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022