Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Faculty You are here Home Academics Faculty About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Fearless Faculty Temple University attracts leading minds from around the world who bring their professional experiences, research endeavors and compassion into the classroom so students are learning from—and collaborating with—true experts. As an R1 Carnegie Classification institution, we have the highest research activity among four-year universities. What does that mean for you? Gain exposure to top-tier faculty members and apply your knowledge to the real world. Our professors are not just teaching—they are mentoring, collaborating and creating breakthroughs every day. 2,286 full-time faculty 13-to-1 student-faculty ratio 43% of classes have fewer than 20 students 16 teaching labs in Main Campus’ Science Education and Research Center Contents Thinking Outside the BoxStudent-faculty MentorshipVirtual LearningFaculty in the News Thinking Outside the Box Our faculty members actively work to give students the best experience possible. With over 2,000 full-time faculty, you have the opportunity to have individualized mentorships, develop skills to think critically with a global perspective and fully immerse yourself in an open, vigorous learning environment. Meet some of our professors who are impacting the lives of students and the world around them. Aron Pilhofer James B. Steele Chair in Journalism Innovation Professor Pilhofer previously worked as an executive editor, digital and interim chief digital officer for The Guardian and served as interactive news editor for The New York Times. At Temple, he co-founded two news-related startups: DocumentCloud.org, now housed at Temple University’s Klein College of Media and Communication, and Hacks & Hackers. Ellen Weber Assistant Professor, Strategic Management and Executive Director of Temple’s Innovation and Entrepreneurship Institute Professor Weber serves as executive director of Robin Hood Ventures, a group of angel investors she founded 23 years ago, which focus on early-stage, high-growth companies in the region. At Temple, she helped implement two new innovation spaces at the university, with the goal of bringing students together to collaborate and share their ideas. Ruth Ochia Associate Professor of Instruction, Engineering Since the age of 16, Professor Ruth Ochia knew she wanted to be a doctor. It wasn’t until she was older, however, that she decided to take the leap to pursue biomedical engineering. Now, she’s a pioneer who helped launch one of the country’s only bioengineering undergraduate programs at Temple. “It’s exciting to be involved at the very beginning of the program. I feel like I can really make a difference.” Aaron Smith Associate Professor of Instruction, Engineering Nicknamed “The Rapping Professor,” Professor Aaron Smith went viral for his unique approach to lectures, racking up nearly 10 million views in three weeks. As opposed to the traditional way of reviewing for upcoming exams, Smith prefers to be more spontaneous—by turning his lessons into impromptu raps. “Instead of just theorizing and always showing slides and displaying what used to happen back in the day and what other people did, I figured some practical application would be more impactful for my students to really see the art in action.” Return to Top Student-faculty Mentorship With a 13-1 student-faculty ratio, your professors are not here to just teach. They are here to serve as a springboard for your creative projects—and will support you every step of the way. Abigail Sydnes ’17 College of Engineering During her junior year of high school while taking a summer robotics class at the university, Abigail Sydnes first met Temple Engineering Associate Professor John Helferty. The following year, when she was accepted to Temple with a President’s Scholar Award, she’d help TA the very same course. For the rest of her time in college, she worked closely with Helferty—who she calls “Dr. H.” “I think everybody needs an advocate or a mentor, to pull you through in different situations.” Paige Hill ’18 College of Liberal Arts As a political activist, Paige Hill has always championed for the voices that go unheard. She was involved in many forms of activism, including criminal justice reform and access to reproductive rights as an undergraduate student. Now she uses that experience in immigration legal spaces, to help advocate for asylum seekers. “My inspiration came directly from Temple’s faculty. I was given the tools to explore teaching and political science as a career, and as something I may be good at.” Return to Top Virtual Learning In the virtual space, our professors have adapted to a new, modern way of teaching and keeping students engaged. Whether you take class in-person or online, the sense of community at Temple remains unbreakable. Betsy Tutelman Professor, Media Studies & Production Professor Tutelman hosts online coffeehouses to help her students socialize and network with one another. “I think an important aspect of this is that it provides another outlet for students to engage with each other. It’s a chance for them to relax and tell their story, or to ask people about their story.” A.J. Kreimer Assistant Professor of Practice, Accounting Professor Kreimer isn’t new to teaching in a virtual space. He has been teaching online classes for years in order to keep his students ahead of the digital curve. “That’s what digital learning is all about—delivering an outstanding product that makes our students feel that they’re getting value for their education, and still show them that you care and that they matter.” Return to Top Faculty in the News Stay up to date with the latest faculty news stories. Explore our News Center Back to Main Academics Go back to AcademicsMore in Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Research & Learning Spaces Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Pre-College Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info