Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Majors Academics Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Home Office of Admissions Academics Majors Academics Home Academics Careers Experiential learning Honors Majors Understanding your assigned major Understanding your assigned major Study Abroad Research Course catalog Pre-Law Pre-Health Choosing a major Consider your interests: Which classes do you enjoy most? Assess your abilities: What are your strengths and challenges? Explore your options: Use the buttons below to explore UW majors, or search by keyword for what interests you. Questions about direct to major or direct to college admissions? Get answers here. Types of majors There are three types of majors at the UW: open, minimum requirements and capacity-constrained. Your requested major on the application may be used as a factor in your admission decision. Learn more about admission to majors. AllOpen MajorsMinimum requirements majorsCapacity-constrained majors Areas of interest With over 180 majors at the UW, many paths can lead from a single interest. The program that’s right for you might be one you haven’t considered (or even heard of) yet. AllArts, Humanities & DesignBusinessComputing-relatedEngineeringHealthNatural & Environmental Sciences Social Sciences No majors meet your search criteria, please adjust and try again. Home Academics Careers Experiential learning Honors Majors Understanding your assigned major Understanding your assigned major Study Abroad Research Course catalog Pre-Law Pre-Health Key: click for more details Open These majors are open to you when you’re admitted to the UW or anytime thereafter. Minimum requirements These majors have additional admission requirements. Once you’re a UW student and meet the minimum requirements, you can be admitted without further screening. Capacity-constrained Capacity-constrained majors have additional requirements and selective screening, which may include an additional application process. Completing the minimum UW admission requirements does not guarantee admission to capacity-constrained majors. Most students apply to these majors after they are admitted to the UW. Arts, humanities and design Intrigued by human society and culture? Do you want to create, design or perform? Are you driven to learn all about a particular language or part of the world? The arts, humanities or design might be for you. Business Business professionals fuel the world’s economies and industries — from entrepreneurs and visionaries to managers, accountants and salespeople. Who makes the world go ’round? Maybe you do. Computing-related Fascinated by how a computer works? Or want to use data, information and technology to solve problems in your chosen field? You can use computers in any major at the UW, but some have a stronger emphasis on computing. Engineering Engineers build bridges and work on problems from the microscopic (genetic engineering) to the global (systems for maintaining a sustainable planet). Today’s engineers take on large-scale problems with cross-cultural implications. Do you want to build the future? Health Health-sciences professionals improve lives by alleviating human suffering — one person at a time or for whole populations. They listen, investigate and help us understand ourselves and our bodies. Do you want to help people live healthier, happier lives? Natural and environmental sciences Explore life cycles and systems, bodies and biospheres, ecology and evolution. Investigate a single neuron or the ocean floor. Are you interested in exploring life and the world that sustains it? Social sciences Social scientists are all about people — what we have in common, how we’re different, what makes us human. They study our diverse rituals, customs and laws; how we communicate; and the way we live now and did in the past. They’re people studying people. Return to top Resources Majors There’s a job for that quiz PathwayU: align your education to your purpose Information sessions Disability resources University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA