Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Apply > Housing Applying for Housing Living on campus is an essential component of the college experience. Studies show that it can help you earn a higher GPA and graduate on time. If you’re thinking of making your home in one of our 14 residence halls—complete with a dedicated honors community—apply for on-campus housing by submitting the following: The online application Complete the housing application as soon as possible after you finish your admissions application. The earlier you apply, the more likely you are to have your preferences met. More Information Before You Apply Limited Space Before You Apply To be eligible to apply for housing, the freshman admissions application must be complete. Look for confirmation in MyStatus. Transfer applicants are not required to have completed the admissions application, but must have submitted at least the ApplyTexas application. Limited Space Space in on-campus housing is limited, and is offered on a first-come, first-served basis. Your housing application fee Pay the $50 application fee when you submit your application. More Information Waivers Fee Non-refundable Fee Waivers If you received a fee waiver for your admissions application, your housing application fee will be waived automatically. Simply apply for housing once your admissions application waiver is posted. Questions about fee waiver eligibility? Contact the Office of Admissions. Fee Non-refundable The housing application fee is non-refundable, and applying for housing does not guarantee that you will be offered a contract. Track Your Status Track the status of your application using the housing portal. If you’re admitted to the university and accept your offer of admission, you are eligible to be offered a housing contract. Notification of an offer is sent by email, with priority given to those who submitted a housing application earliest. When to Apply The housing application opens on: Summer Admission: February 1 Fall Admission: August 1 Spring Admission: September 1 Next: Back to Apply Go to Admission Honors Housing admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022