Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Tour Visit Apply × Close Menu Affordability at TU Apply Apply First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Graduate Applicants Law Applicants Other Students Credit By Exam Financial Aid Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Free Application for Federal Student Aid Visit Campus Visit Campus Academic Webinars Plan Your Individual Visit Preview TU Group Visits University Ambassadors Area Hotels Directions to Campus Maps Explore Tulsa Virtual Tour Special Programs Special Programs Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars Student Life Student Life International Student Services Housing & Dining Student Organizations Campus Recreation Career Services Health Center Student Accessibility New Student Programs Office of Student Affairs Find Your Admission Counselor Request Information Quick Links News Events Calendar Maps Athletics Contact TU Information For... Future Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Veteran Students Undergraduate Students International Students Graduate Students Law Students Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How do I interview for admission? Where is the new student checklist? How do I schedule a visit? What majors are offered? How much does TU cost? How can I transfer to TU? Close Search Link to site home page Office of Admission Transfer Admission TRANSFER ADMISSION Transfer Application Requirements Transfer Scholarships and Financial Aid Transfer from Tulsa Community College (TCC) Transfer Admission Counselors Transfer Frequently Asked Questions Request Information Transfer Admission Guide Transfer to TU The University of Tulsa (TU) seeks to recruit and admit talented transfer students of diverse backgrounds and experiences and is dedicated to providing them collaborative and integrated learning experiences with clear curricular pathways to graduation. By fostering a welcoming and inclusive environment, TU strives to intentionally connect transfer students to the university, its mission, and its values. TU commits to supporting transfer students as they achieve their personal, academic, intellectual, and professional goals which prepares them to make positive contributions on campus, in the community, and the world. $18.5 M Scholarships granted… Yes, Transfer Students are eligible 93% Placement rate… meaning the odds are in your favor 200+ Student organizations… even one just for Transfer Students Apply as a Transfer Student There are two ways to apply as a transfer student – through the TU Application or the Common App. Apply with the TU Application Apply with the Common App Paying for a TU Education The University of Tulsa is committed to enrolling and graduating the most talented students by offering competitive recruitment and financial aid packages that make the university an option for high-potential students. Paying for college involves a partnership between our students and the university. TU offers students a wide range of scholarships and financial aid options to help them achieve success. Student Financial Services Scholarships Applying for Aid Tuition & Costs Frequently Asked Questions TU Financial Aid Guide Application Deadlines Term Best Consideration Application Deadline Admission Notification Fall February 1 August 1* Rolling Admission Spring October 1 December 1* Rolling Admission *All application documents, including transcripts, must be received by this date. How many of my credits will transfer? Credit earned from regionally accredited colleges and universities is generally transferable if a grade of C or better has been earned in the course and if The University of Tulsa offers a comparable course. Courses taken pass/fail are not transferable unless a grade of C or better can be documented. Faculty policy determines which courses are applicable towards a chosen major. The last 45 hours of the degree program must be completed at TU. Evaluate Your Transfer Credit See What Transfers from TCC Application Status You will need your username and password that was emailed to you after you applied in order to check your application status. Connect with a TU Transfer Specialist Kelsey Dowdell Director of Transfer Admission Students with last name A-E Amy Beaudoin Senior Admission Specialist Students with last name F-Z 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT