Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Admissions Search Menu Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour Search Admissions PhD Funding Breadcrumb Home Tuition & Funding Sub Navigation In This Section Master's Funding PhD Funding Financing Your Degree The Association of Schools & Programs of Public Health (ASPPH) offers a list of external scholarship and fellowship opportunities. Learn More PhD Funding Admitted doctoral students receive up to five years of guaranteed financial support through Brown's Five-Year Guarantee. We encourage PhD applicants to maximize funding sources. Five-Year Guarantee Admitted doctoral students receive up to five years of guaranteed financial support, including a stipend, tuition remission, a health services fee, and health and dental insurance subsidies as well as four summers of support. This financial support applies to domestic and foreign students. Fellowships at Brown PhD applicants receive automatic consideration for Brown fellowships; no additional application required. Presidential Fellowships are awarded to some of the most outstanding applicants to doctoral programs across the disciplines at Brown. Diversity Fellowships are intended to diversify doctoral programs, with priority given to students from historically underrepresented groups. External Fellowships Many of our PhD students also apply for outside funding. The Graduate School provides incentives to encourage students to compete for funding from institutions, foundations, and governmental agencies. In addition, ASPPH offers a list of external scholarship and fellowship opportunities. Make an Informed Decision Our graduates benefit from strong placement rates (95% within 12 months) and diverse career outcomes. Be sure to factor in Providence's cost of living and the School's Walk Score (90) when comparing schools. Pursue Opportunities for Current Students After you enroll at Brown, you are eligible to apply for additional funding opportunities, including: Conference travel funding from the Graduate School for students presenting at academic conferences. Doctoral students who present original work at academic conferences can request up to $400 in support from the School of Public Health. These funds are intended to cover related travel expenses not covered by the Graduate School. Graduate Student Council stipends for conference and dissertation/field work related travel expenses. Doctoral Research Travel Grants/Awards International Travel Funds Global Mobility Research Fellowship Special awards such as the Nora Kahn Piore Award for Health Services Scholars. Financing Your Degree The Association of Schools & Programs of Public Health (ASPPH) offers a list of external scholarship and fellowship opportunities. Learn More Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search PhD Funding Open details for PhD Funding Bookmark this Page