Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Visit / Special Programs / Campus Preview Days custom css-js - global Campus Preview Days Campus Preview Days are designed for prospective students and their families to learn more about the opportunities available at Tulane through various panels, a campus tour, and an informational overview of the university. Fall 2021 Campus Preview Days Ideal for Juniors & Seniors Campus Preview Day is the best full-picture event you can attend as a prospective student. We will be hosting Campus Preview Days virtually and on campus on different Saturdays throughout the year. You’ll spend half the day touring campus and attending information sessions from current students and Admission Counselors. In order to keep our community safe during the Covid-19 pandemic, guests must bring proof of vaccination or a 72-hour negative Covid-19 test. Physical or electronic proof is required. We also ask that visitors only bring one guest to Campus Preview Days that are in-person. All Tulane visitors — regardless of vaccination status — are required to wear masks while indoors. Only vaccinated visitors may remove masks when outdoors. Virtual Campus Preview Days In-person Campus Preview Days Plan Your Visit We've compiled information to help you put together your travel plans. If you have questions, please let us know! Book a hotel: New Orleans is a popular destination, so flights and hotels may book up quickly! We have a list of recommended hotels, many of which offer a special Tulane rate. Directions & transportation: Make sure you know where you're going in advance. The program will begin at Lavin-Bernick Center, 1st floor lobby, which is building #1 on our interactive campus map. We also recommend you review tips for getting around New Orleans. Parking: If you're driving to campus, we recommend you plan to arrive early enough to find parking and walk to Lavin-Bernick Center from your vehicle. Parking on and around Tulane's campus can be very limited, especially for larger vehicles. Please note that the only other available spaces on campus are metered; unmarked spaces require annual parking permits every weekday. Luggage: Should you need to arrive to campus with luggage, we have secure space for you until the program ends. NOLA: Spending the whole weekend in New Orleans? See what's happening on campus, and find things to do around town. Get familiar with campus: Engage with our interactive campus map. Don't forget to post photos of your #tulanevisit! #tulanevisit on Instagram #tulanevisit on Twitter Campus Tours Daily Campus Tours Large Group Tours Arts/Architecture Tours Our Tour Guides VirTUal Visiting Class Visits Special Programs Tulane Comes to You Campus Preview Days Pre-College Summer Programs Metropolitan Universities Tour Junior Nights Interactive Campus Map Getting Here Eat, Stay, Play Eating in New Orleans Where To Stay Celebrated Events Our Favorite Places Did You Know? Students can learn 26 different foreign languages at Tulane. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University