Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > RaiseMe RaiseMe Earn scholarship money while still in high school The University of Texas at Austin wants all high school students to know that college is affordable for everyone. We’ve collaborated with college access platform RaiseMe to reward students for studying hard, volunteering and getting involved in their community. And those activities will be rewarded with scholarships to help you join us on the Forty Acres. What is it? Through our collaboration with RaiseMe, students from selected low-income high schools across the state of Texas will be eligible to earn incremental, achievement-based “micro-scholarships” to reward their progress toward building a successful foundation for an undergraduate experience at UT Austin. You can earn micro-scholarships for a number of activities, such as maintaining strong grades, volunteering in your community, having a leadership role in an extracurricular activity, going on a college visit and more. Students can accumulate achievements while in grades 9-12. The deadline to submit achievements is January 1 of your senior year. Amounts vary from $10 to more than $100 for individual achievements. With all your achievements, you can receive a total scholarship of up to $2,000 for four years, or $500 per year. Want to know more? To see if your high school is participating and to start earning micro-scholarships, visit https://www.raise.me/join/utaustin Next: Back to Afford Go to Scholarships & Fellowships Financial Aid Accepting Awards and Aid admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022