Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Undergraduate Admissions Admissions right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English Program (ACE) right arrow down arrow Requirements Academic Plan Cost Accelerated College English Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow In-Person Campus Tour right arrow down arrow Visitor Guidelines Campus Parking and Walking Directions Group Visit Self-Guided Visit Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First NEXT Innovation Scholarship Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media Admissions » Confirm Confirm Your Admission Receive your offer of admission. You may only confirm your admission after you have received an offer from the Office of Admissions. The steps below are for all undergraduate transfer and first-year students admitted to Cincinnati's Uptown (main) Campus, UC Blue Ash College (regional) Campus, and UC Clermont College (regional) Campus. If you do not know whether or not you have received an offer of admission, check your status. Step 1: Log into your status portal Log into your Applicant Status Portal to confirm your admission to the University of Cincinnati. Step 2: View your decision letter and then select "Confirmation Form" Before you can confirm your admission, you must view your decision letter by selecting "View Update" near the top of your status page. Once you have viewed the decision letter you can return to your status page and select the "Confirmation Form." Step 3: Complete the confirmation form Make the correct selections and submit. Step 4: Pay confirmation fee Once you complete and submit the confirmation form, you will be taken back to your status page. Select "Submit Payment" to complete the payment form. The confirmation fee is non-refundable. Step 5: Check amount you will pay Select "Submit Payment" to proceed. Step 6: Complete payment form Complete the payment form with credit card, debit card, or electronic check (ACH), click submit, and wait to see that your payment was successful. If you are paying by credit or debit card, we accept: American Express Checking account payments Discover MasterCard PayPal Visa Pay by Check If you cannot pay by credit or debit card, please complete the Confirmation Form and then mail a $100 check or money order ($50 for UC Blue Ash College or UC Clermont College) made payable to “University of Cincinnati.” Mailing Address: Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0091 Fee Waiver for Pell Grant Eligible Students If you are eligible to receive a Pell Grant, you are not required to pay the confirmation fee. Once eligibility is verified by the UC Financial Aid Office, that's when you won't see the request for payment. After completing the FAFSA, you will receive a Student Aid Report within 3 weeks of your submission. You will log into your account on the FAFSA website to view this report. This report will tell you if you are eligible for a Pell Grant based on your level of financial need. If you are eligible, you will not see the request for payment on your status page. Welcome to the Bearcat Community! After completing the Confirmation Form and submitting your confirmation fee, you will be taken back to your status page. Be sure to routinely check your University of Cincinnati email for more important information as you prepare for your first year as a Bearcat! Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top