Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Check Your Application More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Your Application If you have submitted your application to Dartmouth online through the Common App, you will receive an acknowledgement email from the College as soon as we begin downloading material from their servers to our computer system – usually beginning during the month of September. The email will contain login information for our Application Portal. Through this system, you will be able to: see the status of your application update your contact information submit an update to your application see the status of your financial aid application, if applicable Log in to Dartmouth's Application Portal After you log in, change your password (Pin) to something more memorable by using the "Change Password" link at the foot of your application status page. How to Make Updates Contact Information Updates: If you need to update your mailing address or your email address, you will be able do this by logging into our Application Portal. You will find the "Edit Address" link below your current address(es) and the "Change Email Address" link at the foot of the page. Application Updates: Have important news? We hope you'll let us know. You can send us an update by logging into our Application Portal and uploading a brief text file containing your news or additional materials (please don't upload large files containing certificates or numerous images). At the foot of your application status page, you will see the heading "Upload Materials." You should type the news of your updates into a text file—such as a Word document—then upload it. The file will automatically be added to your application. To Withdraw: If your plans have changed, please log into our Application Portal and complete the Application Withdrawal form on your status portal. Common Password and Log-in Problems I have not received my login details yet. If you have submitted your application via the Common App system, you should receive an email from Dartmouth containing your Application Portal login details within 48 hours of submission. I have still not received my login email from Dartmouth. If you have not received your login details via email after 48 hours, it may be that you have a spam filter issue. Please be sure to check that your email filter will allow messages from this sender: admissions.application@dartmouth.edu. Using a different email to log in? If you have received an application acknowledgement email from our office and are having trouble logging into the Application Portal, you may be entering an email address that is different from the one we used to send you your login information. Be sure to enter the email address we used to send your login details. I have a username and password, but they don't work. The most common cause of problems with usernames and Pin are typos. Try copying and pasting your username and Pin directly from the email containing your login details to prevent mistakes. I still can't log into Dartmouth's Application Portal. If you are still having trouble logging in with the information you received in your email from Admissions, please contact us to tell us about your problem. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback