Skip to main content Colorado State University Admissions Visit Info Apply hamburger The Basics Information for Future Students Information for Counselors, Parents and Families Cost and Financial Aid What We Stand For The CSU Experience Academic programs This Amazing Location Campus Life The Value of a CSU Education Connect With CSU Request Info Find Your Counselor View Our Blog Contact Us COVID-19 Updates Visit Visits and Events Directions and Parking Virtual Tour Apply Applying to Colorado State Continuing Your Application Checking Your Application Status Graduate Student Admissions Admitted Students This Amazing Location This is Fort Collins Fort Collins is a community that blends education and industry, hard work and recreation, tradition and progress. If you’re looking for a college experience with the perfect fusion of adventure and opportunity, Fort Collins is where you’ll find it. Come visit campus to see it for yourself and find your “it just feels right” moment. Or take our virtual tour – don’t forget to stop at Horsetooth Reservoir and Old Town! “College Town to Live in Forever” by College Ranker of bike routes and trails in Fort Collins sunny days every year in Fort Collins make Fort Collins the fourth largest city in Colorado Your backyard just got bigger Hike to 7,260-foot Horsetooth Rock, go whitewater rafting on the Cache la Poudre River, mountain bike at Lory State Park, or travel about an hour to snowshoe at Rocky Mountain National Park. Those are just a few of our nearby outdoor adventures! Leave your weekends open How do you choose between a bustling outdoor festival, a concert at a venue tucked in the Rocky Mountains, or browsing art galleries? With so many events to choose from, it’s a welcome problem Fort Collins residents are used to, and we don’t hear many complaints. Denver is just down the road Need a weekend in the city or want to catch a flight home? You’ll be about an hour away from one of the fastest growing cities and the largest airport in the country. Nicknamed the Mile High City, Denver sits at an elevation of exactly one mile (5,280 feet). There’s no place quite like it Fort Collins has a ton of local flavor. From restaurants to movie theaters to boutiques and more, you’ll find unique opportunities that will shape your college experience and make you proud to call Fort Collins home. Did you know that Old Town Fort Collins inspired Disneyland’s Main Street USA? Fort Collins is always in season It just depends on which season. You’ll get a taste of all four seasons in Fort Collins, including winters with enough snow for a snowshoeing trip in the foothills but typically mild temperatures that even our most warm-blooded students quickly adapt to. Getting around is part of the fun With a robust public transportation system, bike routes on almost every road, and a uniquely walkable campus, cars are optional in Fort Collins. There are alternative transportation options and even sponsored trips to the mountains and Denver if you’re headed out of town. The CSU Experience Academic Programs This Amazing Location The Value of a CSU Education Campus Life Create your personalized viewbook > An equal access and equal opportunity university. © 2022 Colorado State University #colostatebound Contact Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement