Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Running Start Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Apply Home Apply Admission to majors Dates and deadlines Freshman How to apply Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Parents & Families Preparing for college Running Start Transfer How to apply Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Transfer GPA Transfer credit policies WA CC Equivalency Guide Transfer planning resources Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Postbaccalaureate How to apply Military Running Start (UW College in the High School and other dual enrollment programs) and the UW application Join UW Assistant Director of Admissions Carlos Williams, along with advising colleagues as we walk through the application process and how to best prepare for your intended major (if you have one). Access the recording At the University of Washington we welcome students who have chosen to begin college coursework for college credit while still in high school. These programs are challenging and demanding, and we believe they provide excellent preparation for university study. Running Start allows academically qualified students in grades 11-12 to take college courses online or on the campus of the college offering the courses. In autumn 2021 we enrolled 1,624 freshmen who participated in Running Start. College in the High School allows academically qualified students in grades 10-12 to enroll in college courses that are offered at their high school. These programs are offered by many Washington colleges and universities. The UW partners with more than 100 high schools in Washington through UW in the High School. Admission If you are applying for the autumn quarter of the year you graduate from high school, apply as a freshman. (You are considered a freshman applicant in this circumstance; once you enroll as a student, your college credit may qualify you for sophomore or junior standing.) If you start or continue college after leaving high school, apply as a transfer applicant using the transfer application. Recommendations for academic planning We encourage applicants — particularly those with a significant number of college credits — to begin their academic planning as early as possible to ensure that they make the most of their college credit. Keep in mind that you have established a college record. Grades you earn now could affect admission to the UW and to your intended major. Students admitted through a freshman application are expected to declare a major by the time they have completed five academic quarters (not including summer quarters) and earned 105 credits. Thus, no matter how many credits you enter with — even if your credit total exceeds 105 credits — you will have five quarters at the UW before you need to declare a major. You may declare a major sooner if you are ready. Two online tools will help you look ahead toward UW requirements — for your intended major and for graduation — while still completing coursework at the college you are now attending: For transferable courses at Washington state community colleges and transfer credit policies, see the Equivalency Guide. Consult the Academic Planning Worksheets to help you prepare for your intended major and UW graduation requirements. Scholarships You may be considered for freshman scholarships as long as you do not enroll in another degree-seeking program after leaving high school and before enrolling in the UW. Tips for the application Running Start students and students with other dual enrollment credits should apply to the UW with the freshman admission application. Running Start, UW in the High School or other dual enrollment classes should be entered in the high school coursework section (9th – 11th Grade Coursework and/or 12th Grade Coursework, as applicable). Be sure to select the box “I took this course at a college and/or I received college credit for this course” to let us know the course is part of Running Start. Note: Changes to your senior year schedule If you anticipate your senior year schedule might change or you haven’t met with an adviser to make your plans, please let us know in the “additional space” section of the application. Transcripts are not required for admission consideration, and we ask that you do not send them unless requested. However, having an unofficial copy in hand may help you complete the application. See the how to apply section for more details and information on self reporting your academic coursework. Home Apply Admission to majors Dates and deadlines Freshman How to apply Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Parents & Families Preparing for college Running Start Transfer How to apply Holistic review Transfers by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) Transfer GPA Transfer credit policies WA CC Equivalency Guide Transfer planning resources Spring quarter transfer admission I applied. Now what? Postbaccalaureate How to apply Military Resources What is my application type WA CC Equivalency Guide Disability resources Freshman viewbook – interactive version Freshman viewbook – pdf Transfer viewbook Deadlines September 1: Freshman autumn application opens November 15: Freshman autumn application deadline March 1-15: Freshman autumn notification period University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA