Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Enroll > CAP Coordinated Admission Program The University of Texas System developed the Coordinated Admission Program (CAP) to expand the admission options available to students interested in enrolling at The University of Texas at Austin, the system’s flagship university. In general, CAP makes it possible for some freshman applicants to UT Austin to begin their studies at another UT System university. After completing CAP requirements during their freshman year, students transfer to UT Austin to complete their undergraduate studies. If you are offered and decide to participate in CAP, you don’t have to apply for admission to the UT System university you attend during your freshman year. Simply complete the CAP agreement to let us know that you want to participate. You’re guaranteed admission to most majors in UT Austin’s College of Liberal Arts upon successful completion of the program. And just like any other prospective transfer student, you’ll be able to compete for admission to majors other than those guaranteed in Liberal Arts. Another Benefit As a CAP student, you’ll select from courses that have been approved for transfer to UT Austin. That means that if you complete the program successfully, you’ll return to UT Austin with at least 30 hours of transferable coursework. Prospective Cap Students Participating Universities Enrollment Requirements CAP and Financial Aid FAQs More Info CAP Contacts Current Cap Students Timeline Transitioning to UT Austin CAP Contacts admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022