Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Afford Invest in your future. We're here to help. At The University of Texas at Austin, we’re committed to making our first-class education affordable to students from all financial backgrounds. Our Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid is here to help you understand your options and resources—and it’s well worth it. With honors programs comparable to any Ivy League education, Longhorn students still pay less than five other Texas public universities, and far less than many comparable flagship universities across America. When alumni earnings are compared to the net cost of a Texas degree, it’s clear why Texas has been recognized for decades as one of America’s best educational values: Employability: Our graduates are among the world’s most employable, says the Global Employability Survey (2019). Return on Investment: Using more than 40 data points covering cost, financial aid, graduation rates and salary data, The Princeton Review identified the university as one of the Colleges That Pay You Back—“truly the most exceptional in the nation at delivering great academics, affordable costs and great career foundations” Scholarships and Fellowships Scholarships are a great way to offset all or part of the cost of your undergraduate education, and we're here to help you find them. No longer an undergraduate? You'll want details about fellowship and student employment opportunities. Learn More Financial Aid Explore other financial aid options that can help offset your cost of attendance, including grants, work-study, student loans, and exemptions and waivers. Financial aid comes in a number of forms, all of which can help you achieve your goals. Learn More Accepting Awards You're admitted and excited. Now, let's get you funded. Find out how to accept scholarships and financial aid awards administered by The University of Texas at Austin's Texas One Stop. Learn More Learn What You’ll Earn SeekUT offers key information about earnings, average student loan debt and employment after graduation. Users can find the median earnings one year and five years after degree completion, average student loan debt, and labor market projections nationally and in specific regions in Texas. admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022