Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Dean Lee Coffin The Search PodcastApply to Dartmouth More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Students think of a "Dean" as a signature on a letter, someone like the Wizard of Oz: an idea more than a person. I'm emerging from behind my proverbial curtain to share insights informed by my actual experience: I was a first-generation college student, and need-based financial aid opened my door to opportunity. Not many students from my large high school went on to selective colleges, so advice was thin. I was largely on my own. My platform here helps me reach those of you in a similar place. — Lee Coffin, Vice Provost for Enrollment and Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid 12 JANUARY 2022 Dean Coffin shares the news of Dartmouth's universal need-blind admissions policy. Admissions Beat Podcast LISTEN TO ALL EPISODES OF ADMISSIONS BEAT Decisions Are Out! It's finally here, the end of this year's admissions cycle (and soon, the beginning of a new one). Applicants are on edge as they wait for the long-awaited email or letter to arrive, letting them know which colleges or universities are inviting them to join the class of 2026. Lee Coffin and producer Charlotte Albright talk candidly and practically about how to process that news, and how to sift through the forthcoming avalanche of media reports touting, in many selective schools, historically low acceptance rates. Decisions Are Out! A transcript is available for this episode. Subscribe wherever you listen to podcasts: Spotify, Apple Podcast, Stitcher, Amazon Music, Audible, PocketCasts, PlayerFM, RadioPublic, iHeart Radio, Gaana. or JioSaavn. The Search Podcast LISTEN TO ALL EPISODES OF THE SEARCH Subscribe wherever you listen to podcasts: Spotify, Apple Music, Stitcher, TuneIn Radio, Pandora, RadioPublic, iHeart Radio, Google Podcast, Podcasts.com, YouTube, or SoundCloud. Lee Coffin Welcomes the Class of 2025 In this special bonus episode, Dean of Admissions Lee Coffin welcomes the newest members of the Dartmouth community. Season 2 Bonus Episode: Lee Coffin Welcomes the Class of 2025 by Dartmouth A transcript is available for this episode. Dartmouth In Video Play Button Dean Coffin Introduces the Class of 2023 Dean Coffin offered a collective biography of the Class of 2023—drawn from excerpts from their applications—during a ceremony welcoming the Class of '23. BACK Dean Coffin Introduces the Class of 2023 Dean Coffin offered a collective biography of the Class of 2023—drawn from excerpts from their applications—during a ceremony welcoming the Class of '23. Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Video of Meet the Class of 2023 https://www.youtube.com/embed/vpjKMj-qqg8?wmode=opaque&controls=&origin=http://admissions.dartmouth.edu&autoplay=1&mute=0 Play Button Walk and Talk with The Dean Adina and Colleen take Dean Coffin on a walk around Dartmouth campus and ask him a few questions about admissions—like how do you get into Dartmouth? BACK Walk and Talk with The Dean Adina and Colleen take Dean Coffin on a walk around Dartmouth campus and ask him a few questions about admissions—like how do you get into Dartmouth? Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Video of Walk and Talk with Dean of Admissions &amp;amp; Financial Aid Lee Coffin Play Button Dean Coffin Introduces the Class of 2022 On Sept. 6, 2018, Dean Coffin welcomed the Class of 2022 by reading excerpts from some of the essays written by members of the class during the admissions process. BACK Dean Coffin Introduces the Class of 2022 On Sept. 6, 2018, Dean Coffin welcomed the Class of 2022 by reading excerpts from some of the essays written by members of the class during the admissions process. Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Video of The New Faces of Dartmouth https://www.youtube.com/embed/NQpWRZQ9DJ8?wmode=opaque&controls=&origin=http://admissions.dartmouth.edu&autoplay=1&mute=0 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. First Hand with Dean Lee Coffin In each issue of 3D, Dartmouth's undergraduate admissions magazine that celebrates our vibrant community framed by nature, Dean Coffin shares advice and insights on the admissions process. Read 3D Magazine Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. October 2020 It Can Happen. It Does Happen. "Give yourself permission to explore, even when some voices around you are less convinced." Read More August 2020 Are You And Dartmouth A Good Fit? "Unmute yourself! Tell us your story. Your essay and recommendations and interviews offer opportunities to do just that." Read More April 2020 What Is True North? "Whether your college search is launching or concluding, follow your own compass." Read More November 2019 I Am An Agent Of The Future Imaginations must be elastic and bold. Curiosity must run towards problems, not away from them. Read More August 2019 This Search Belongs To You Which colleges are the right ones? How will you know if it's a fit? And, the Big Question: can you get in? Read More Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. News Feed All News Stories Dartmouth Adopts Need-Blind International Admissions Vice Provost Coffin Takes 'The Search' Into Season Two The podcast series will offer timely tips about navigating college admissions. Admission Offered to First Members of the Class of 2026 Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback