Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Alumni & Outcomes Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report A Notable Network Whether leaders in government, industry, or the nonprofit sector, our alumni embody qualities that set them apart in the world. Qualities like ethical leadership, diligence, versatile intelligence, creativity, moral courage, and the street smarts to navigate volatile professions like politics and the entertainment industry. "That which you end up doing in the service of something greater than you - even if it means that you feel lesser, humbler, even worthless by comparison - by honoring the humanity of others, that will allow you to get in closer touch with your own." — Jake Tapper '91, Chief Washington Correspondent, CNN 80,000 Strong Dartmouth students graduate into a global network of nearly 80,000 active Dartmouth alumni. One of the most tight-knit alumni groups on the planet, Dartmouth graduates keep in touch, serve as trusted advisors and mentors, and help one another climb ladders, enter markets, and reach their highest professional and personal objectives. Wherever in the world a Dartmouth graduate needs an introduction or some local advice, the network is up and running and ready to help. Who's Who Nobel laureates, government leaders, judges, scientists, writers, scholars, journalists, entertainers-Dartmouth alumni have distinguished themselves in all fields. More than 164 have served in the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives. Here's a sampling of alumni who have been significant influencers in their fields: Art and performing arts: Michael Arad '91, designer World Trade Center 9/11 memorial Humanities: Theodor Geisel (Dr. Seuss) '25, writer and illustrator Engineering: William Kamkwamba '14, author of The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind Physical and life sciences: K Barry Sharpless '63, Nobel Prize in Chemistry Social sciences: Kirsten Gillibrand '88, U.S. senator Lifelong Engagement Dartmouth graduates overwhelmingly tend to thrive after Commencement and remain forever at the core of our community. Alumni also tap Dartmouth's myriad support systems, such as the Center for Professional Development. The CPD supports students and alumni every step of the way-from their first term on campus through a lifetime of growth, learning, and leadership. Distinguished Scholars Many Dartmouth graduates go on to careers as scholars and noted researchers. Dartmouth graduates' rate of admission to law and medical schools is consistently well above the national average. They also compete successfully for the most prestigious scholarships and fellowships—Rhodes, Marshall, Truman, Udall, Goldwater, Fulbright, and dozens more. Big Green News Feed All News Stories The Dartmouth Olympic Tradition Continues Alumni Giving Tops $277 Million in Virtual Fundraising Louise Erdrich '76 Wins Pulitzer Prize for Fiction 'The Night Watchman' celebrates her grandfather's fight for tribal sovereignty. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog Today's blog post is just a quick anecdote about a very Dartmouth moment — and some interviewing tips! Read More Interviewing You, Interviewing Me! Natalie Keim 2025 Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback