Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open A Message from the Director of Financial Aid More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid We know that the cost of an undergraduate education is considerable. Dealing with a global pandemic can make it even more complex. We are committed to providing a need-based financial aid program that makes it financially possible for all admitted students to attend Dartmouth College. Our goal is to give each student the full Dartmouth experience by removing financial barriers. Whether from Rio de Janeiro, Istanbul, or Texas, we will meet 100% of demonstrated need for every admitted student. This year over $135 million in scholarships have been awarded. The average scholarship for the Class of 2025 is over $62,500. G. Dino Koff, Director of Financial Aid My team and I encourage you and your family to use this website as a resource. Learn how to apply for financial aid and investigate different types of aid available, use the calculators to estimate the scholarship aid that may be available to you if you apply to Dartmouth, and read through the answers to our most frequently asked questions. Then, when you are ready, you can use our website to walk you through the process of applying for Dartmouth financial aid. But it's not just this website that can be a great resource. Our financial aid team is here to help you throughout the application process and beyond. Call us, send us an email, or stop by our office during a campus visit. The value of a college education is considerable. Let us help you make it happen. Sincerely, G. Dino Koff Director of Financial Aid Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback