Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Brown | RISD Dual Degree Brown and Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) offer a combined five-year Dual Degree Program for students who wish to integrate studies in the liberal arts with concentrated work in the fine arts. Brown | RISD Dual Degree Brown and Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) offer a combined five-year Dual Degree Program for students who wish to integrate studies in the liberal arts with concentrated work in the fine arts. Dual degree candidates complete approximately half of their coursework at each institution and graduate with the A.B. or Sc.B degree from Brown and the BFA degree from RISD. Interested students must submit separate applications to both Brown and RISD, which are both member schools of the Common Application. Additionally, students must indicate on both applications that they wish to be considered for the Dual Degree Program. Only first-year applicants are eligible to apply. VISIT THE PROGRAM WEBSITE Only students who have been admitted to both Brown and RISD will be considered for the Dual Degree Program. Both Brown and RISD will conduct separate evaluations of all interested candidates before making final decisions on candidates to the Dual Degree Program. Please note: Dual degree candidates are not eligible to participate in the Program in Liberal Medical Education. Start Your Application Applications to Brown are submitted online via the Common Application. Learn how to apply and start your application. How to Apply ADDITIONAL APPLICATION OPTIONS: First-Year Applicants To apply to Brown, complete the Common Application and Brown Member section online. Visit Page Open details for First-Year Applicants International Applicants Every year Brown welcomes students from around the world. In fact, about 15 percent of our students come from abroad. Visit Page Open details for International Applicants All Application Options Visit Page Open details for All Application Options Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown | RISD Dual Degree Open details for Brown | RISD Dual Degree Bookmark this Page