Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Application Checklist Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Undocumented or DACA Students In Princeton University's President Christopher L. Eisgruber’s letter to Congress in 2017, he wrote “[DACA] (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) has allowed talented and motivated students, who came to this country as a result of decisions by their parents, to pursue their educations, develop their talents, and contribute positively to our communities and our country. These young people deserve the opportunity not only to remain in this country, which for many is the only home they have known, but to be reassured that their devotion to this country is welcomed and valued.” These young peope deserve the opportunity not only to remain in this country, which for many is the only home they have known, but to be reassured that their devotion to this country is welcomed and valued. The University is committed to supporting undocumented and DACA students. Princeton’s admission and financial aid policies are the same for undocumented or DACA students as they are for all other students applying to the University. If admitted, undocumented students can be confident that their full financial need, as determined by the Undergraduate Financial Aid Office, will be met. Though undocumented and DACA students follow the same application process as all other first-year and transfer students, below are a few helpful tips about the application and financial aid processes. For the Common Application, when reporting citizenship status, select “Other (Non-US),” list all other citizenships you hold and respond “no” to the visa question. For financial aid, the only form required of undocumented and DACA students is the Princeton Financial Aid Application. In the application, under Citizenship Status, select “International student, other than Canadian”. If you are a citizen but your parents are undocumented, you may still complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by listing your parents’ Social Security Numbers as 000-00-0000. Please use the “Additional Information” section of your application to further explain your citizenship status. For additional help regarding the admission and financial aid processes, please contact us. or review our FAQs. FAQs Undocumented and DACA FAQs Learn More Full content of https://admission.princeton.edu/faqs Campus Life Immigrant Empowerment Pace Center for Civic Engagement Learn More Full content of https://pace.princeton.edu/get-involved/princeton-students-immigrant-empowerment News Princeton, Microsoft, Maria Perales Sanchez ’18 welcome Supreme Court ruling to restore DACA Read the news story Full content of https://www.princeton.edu/news/2020/06/18/princeton-microsoft-maria-perales-sanchez-18-welcome-supreme-court-ruling-restore Student Resources DACA Advising & Resources Davis International Center Learn More Full content of https://davisic.princeton.edu/immigration/daca Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746