Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search International Students You are here Home Apply International Students About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Find out what the application process is like for international students. Here at Temple, we’re committed to making the application process for international students as easy as possible. Learn details about the process and what the most important deadlines are, because having a plan and applying early has its perks. Who is an international student? You’re an international student if you are not a citizen or permanent resident of the United States. No matter where you’re from, #YouAreWelcomeHere. Learn More Discover Temple In Your Language العربية • Bahasa Indonesia • 中文 • Español • Português • Русский язык • ไทย • Tiếng Việt • Türkçe • As part of our commitment to international applicants, we provide you with resources and information in your own language. Learn More Discover Temple In Your Language Contents How to ApplyEnglish Language ProficiencyWhen to ApplyCosts, Aid and ScholarshipsConditional AdmissionTemple Rome Entry Year ProgramAdmitted Students How to Apply Join students from more than 123 countries and discover our top-tier academic programs and the many cultural experiences on Temple’s campus and in Philadelphia. You are a first-year applicant if you are a student still attending secondary school or high school, or you have not attempted 15 or more college-level credits. You are a transfer applicant if you have completed secondary school and have attempted at least 15 college-level credits or more. 1. Make an application plan. If you’re a first-year applicant, you’ll first want to pick a deadline goal and decide if you’d like to apply Early Action (due Nov. 1) or Regular Decision (Feb. 1). 2. Apply using the Common Application. Temple exclusively uses the Common Application. When completing your application for Temple, be sure to indicate whether you’re applying Early Action or Regular Decision if you’re a first-year applicant. Even if you apply before or by the Early Action deadline, you still must indicate Early Action on your application to ensure you will receive an admissions decision early. Transfer applicants do not need to select a deadline preference. There’s an application fee of $55, which you will submit at the same time as the Common Application unless you qualify for a waiver. Get started Applying Made Simple Complete the Common Application and apply as an international student to Temple. Get started Applying Made Simple 3. Complete your application by sending official documents. After submitting the Common Application, you’ll need to submit the following information to the university in order to complete your application. Official secondary school or college transcripts Standardized test scores (optional). Read more below for important information on testing options. English language proficiency test scores Letter of recommendation (optional) Temple is test-optional. Requirements The following documents may be necessary to complete your application. Please review the testing options to determine whether you wish to submit academic testing to support your application. If your documents are not in English, please provide them in the original language and with an English translation. Official high school and/or university transcripts with English translations (required) Your application must include all official and original academic records from any school: secondary high school, college, or university you have ever attended. If you are attending a high school curriculum that is four years, Temple University reviews grades 9-11 as well as your current progress in 12th grade (term/quarter/semester/predicted) or your final transcript if you completed high school. If you are attending a high school curriculum that is only three years, we strongly recommend you submit the final year of your middle school as well. Test options First-year Applicants Option 1: Apply without standardized testing At Temple University we are pleased to offer applicants a test-optional solution for submitting their application. Test-optional means that you are not required to submit ACT or SAT for admission consideration and is typically chosen by students who feel their test scores do not accurately reflect their academic abilities or who were not able to take SAT or ACT tests due to circumstances outside of their control. Applicants who choose this option are equally eligible to receive merit scholarships. Option 2: Apply with standardized testing. Submit official SAT or ACT results. These must be sent officially from the testing agency. Unsure about whether or not to submit testing? Contact international.admissions@temple.edu. All applicants, regardless of which option they choose, should review the English language proficiency test scores section to determine whether they are required to submit English language proficiency scores to support their application. Transfer Applicants If you have at least 15 college-level credits, SAT/ACT scores (or other standardized tests) are usually not required for transfer admission unless our Admissions Office specifically requests them. Please note that proof of high school graduation may be required and English language proficiency test scores may be required. The average transfer student GPA for fall 2021 was a 3.23. All applicants are reviewed for admission but we prefer that students have a 2.50 or higher GPA. Letters of Recommendation (optional) If you submit letters of recommendation, please request letters from individuals, such as a high school teacher or advisor, who can speak to your academic abilities and accomplishments. Please send no more than two letters to internationaldocuments@temple.edu or through the Common Application. Additional materials for Boyer College of Music and Dance and Tyler School of Art and Architecture If you are applying to one of these schools, you may be required to submit additional supporting information such as an audition, interview or portfolio. Please check the requirements of your major with the school or college below. Boyer College of Music and Dance Tyler School of Art and Architecture For schools and colleges with such requirements, you may schedule your audition and submit your portfolio for review prior to completing the submission of your application. English language proficiency Both international first-year and transfer students must submit one of the following English-language proficiency exams: TOEFL iBT, TOEFL iBT Home Edition, TOEFL Essentials IELTS or IELTS Indicator PTE Academic ITEP Academic Plus Duolingo Cambridge C1 Advanced or Cambridge C2 Proficiency Students do not need to submit English-language proficiency if they meet one of the following exemptions English is your native language. You have completed, at the time of application, three or more years in a curriculum where English was the sole language of instruction. You have successfully completed English composition at a U.S.-accredited college or university (transfer only). View the English language proficiency test score requirements. How to Submit Documents and Testing For any applicant submitting official testing, please use the following Temple University School codes or methods. SAT or TOEFL through Educational Testing Services (ETS)—School Code 2906 American College Testing (ACT)—School Code 3724 IELTS: Simply email your TRF number to internationaldocuments@temple.edu and include your full name and TUid. Have documents and other testing submitted to internationaldocuments@temple.edu by a school official or examining/testing body. Documents sent by mail may delay application processing. The mailing address is below. For information on how documents or testing can be submitted, please contact the International Admissions office. International Admissions 1938 Liacouras Walk, 2nd Floor Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Submitted documents become the property of Temple University and we cannot return them to you. If you prefer, you can retain your originals and submit notarized copies. 4. Check the status of your application with TUportal and determine if you need a student visa. All decisions made regarding your application will be available to you via TUportal. It’s the gateway to the rest of the application process, so make sure to keep your username and password handy. After submitting your application, you can track its status and learn important next steps in TUportal. If you’re admitted, you may need to obtain a nonimmigrant student visa—including a student (F-1) or an exchange visitor (J-1) visa—as a next step toward your enrollment at Temple. Learn how to apply for an F-1 or J-1 visa. 5. Submit proof of secondary school graduation. If you are admitted to Temple and you have submitted your enrollment deposit, you must have your secondary school send your final transcript or proof of graduation to Temple. Need help determining what satisfies proof of graduation? Please contact the International Admissions office. Advanced credit policy Temple’s generous policy accepts advanced credits as determined by the examining body. If you have successfully completed IB, A Level, AP or CLEP courses/subjects, learn more about our policy. Return to top When to Apply International applications are reviewed on a rolling basis for each semester. The sooner you submit your application, the sooner you will receive a decision. Early Action: Nov. 1 (First-year Applicants only) Apply earlier to get an admissions decision earlier. If you apply by Nov. 1, you’ll receive an admissions decision by Jan. 10, though using Early Action is not binding. Why apply early? We generally admit students at a higher rate who apply Early Action. On-campus housing is guaranteed if you commit to Temple by May 1, though the selection is first come, first served. So, the sooner you get your decision, the sooner you can plan your housing. You’ll be able to sign up for Orientation sooner, which is when you register for classes. Regular Decision: Feb. 1 (First-year applicants only) Apply by Feb. 1 and you’ll receive an admissions decision in four to eight weeks after an application is “complete” in our system. NOTE: Early Action candidates receive priority review and can delay our review of Regular Decision candidates. During peak admissions (October through March), it might take more than eight weeks for a decision to be made on your application. Transfer Deadlines Spring semester start: Nov. 1 Fall semester start: June 1 Nursing* and Health Information Management application deadline: Feb. 1 *Nursing is a four-year program, even for transfer students. Limited spaces are available in the Nursing program. Honors Program For first-year students, there is no separate application required to be considered for the Honors Program. Early Action and Regular Decision applicants are automatically reviewed. Transfer students who wish to be reviewed for the Honors Program must apply: https://honors.temple.edu/honors-program-application Important Dates for International Students Fall Semester Start Spring Semester Start For first-year applicants. Early Action deadline: Nov. 1 Regular Decision deadline: Feb. 1 Decision deadline for admitted students: May 1 For transfer applicants. Application deadline: June 1 For first-year applicants. Application deadline: Nov. 1 Decision deadline for admitted students: two weeks after receiving offer of admission For transfer applicants. Application deadline: Nov. 1 Return to top Costs, Aid and Scholarships Temple offers a range of financial support for our international students, from merit scholarships to other awards recognizing high-achieving students, such as the #YouAreWelcomeHere scholarship. International Scholarships Tuition & Costs Return to top Conditional Admission Program Academically qualified students with low or no language scores may still be accepted to Temple University through our Conditional Admission Program. This program provides English language classes while orienting students to university life and preparing them for success at Temple University. Students at the highest CAP levels take credit-bearing classes so they can begin working toward their degree even while learning English. Learn more about our programs for international students. Learn more about scholarship opportunities for this program. https://ielp.temple.edu/programs/conditional-admission-program-cap Center for American Language and Culture Temple has special programs for non-native English speakers through its Center for American Language and Culture, including language classes and courses to acclimate you to life in the U.S. Strengthen your English and prepare for university coursework. Center for American Language and Culture Temple Rome Entry Year Program Another option to consider when applying to Temple is starting your degree at our campus in Rome, Italy. Through the Temple University Rome Entry Year program, you can spend your first year at Temple University Rome and then complete your studies at Main Campus in Philadelphia. The Temple Rome Entry Year program offers an American university education with a global foundation. Learn more. Start your degree in Rome, Italy. Here’s everything you need to know about the Temple Rome Entry Year program and if it’s the right choice for you. Learn more. Link to Temple Rome web page. Return to top Additional resources for international students. Get more information about how Temple supports international students, and learn more about our global perspective on our Office of International Affairs website. International Student Support /apply/international-students/meet-our-international-staff Get to Know Our Staff Our admissions officers are here to answer your questions and guide you through the admissions process. Get to Know Our Staff /apply/international-students/frequently-asked-questions Frequently Asked Questions Get answers to questions that international students frequently ask before, during and after applying to Temple. Frequently Asked Questions Talk to Our Admissions Staff We’re here to help you with any questions you may have about Temple and navigating the admissions process. You can now schedule a virtual appointment with an undergraduate admissions representative. Schedule an Appointment Return to top Next Steps Next Steps for Admitted Students Have you officially been admitted to Temple? Congratulations! Learn more about your next steps as an admitted student. Next Steps Find the information you need to secure your place at Temple, including accepting your offer of admission and submitting your enrollment deposit. Visit Visits and Virtual Events Find out about events and information sessions where representatives from Temple's International Admissions team will be present. Visit Find out about events and information sessions where representatives from Temple's International Admissions team will be present. Back to Apply Go back to ApplyMore in International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info