Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Campus Resources Engage with your peers beyond the classroom. Empower yourself to act and serve. Find the support you need. Community service is a passion for many of our students and is a central part of their Princeton experience. The Pace Center for Civic Engagement is the hub for experiential service opportunities on and off campus, through such groups as the Student Volunteers Council and Community House. At the Pace Center, students learn how to serve and how to learn from service, in addition to having a positive impact on the individuals and communities with whom they work. Eighty-nine percent of students say service helps them feel like they belong at Princeton. “Eighty-nine percent of students say service helps them feel like they belong at Princeton.” Campus centers also bring students together for fun and learning. You could meet friends at the social facility Campus Club; attend a discussion at the Carl A. Fields Center for Equality and Cultural Understanding; find supportive environments at the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) Center and the Women*s Center; or take advantage of resources for international students at the Davis International Center. The Office of Disability Services offers a range of services to ensure that students with disabilities have equal access to Princeton's academic and extracurricular opportunities. McCosh Health Center, which is home to University Health Services, is a fully accredited health care facility that provides quality medical, mental health and wellness services to the University community. University’s Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Your safety is important to Princeton University. In accordance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (“Clery Act”), all prospective and current employees and students are invited to read the University’s Annual Security and Fire Safety Report at: http://publicsafety.princeton.edu/clery/annual-safety-fire-reports . The Report, available online at http://publicsafety.princeton.edu/clery/annual-safety-fire-reports , outlines the University’s safety and security policies, crime prevention efforts, fire safety information, and statistics on certain crimes. A paper copy is available upon request at the Department of Public Safety, 200 Elm Drive, at the Communications Center window. Undergraduate Blog The Beauty of the Residential College System By Naomi Hess Learn More Full content of /blogs/beauty-residential-college-system Achieve Center for Career Development Learn More Full content of https://careerservices.princeton.edu/ Campus Resources Engage Pace Center for Civic Engagement Learn More Full content of https://pace.princeton.edu/ Campus Resources Support Office of the Dean of the College Learn More Full content of https://odoc.princeton.edu/support Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746