Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Living in Philadelphia You are here Home Student Life Living in Philadelphia About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple is a global university, but our heart is in Philadelphia. One of the largest cities on the East Coast and a modern center of industry, Philadelphia is rich with history, culture and opportunity. This city is the ideal place to pursue your education and make the connections that lead to your career. See for yourself why Philadelphia is central to the Temple experience. There’s so much to see in Philadelphia that the only way to really know this city is to come here and experience it for yourself. A hub of culture and activity. On Main Campus, you’re only a short subway ride away from downtown Philadelphia. With easy access to transit options, you’re connected to all of the city’s neighborhoods, each of which has its own distinctive personality and cultural offerings. Walk the historic, cobblestone streets of Old City, get lost in the trendy boutiques of Rittenhouse Square and spend evenings in the music venues of Fishtown. Philadelphia is home to world-renowned libraries and museums, hundreds of parks and 166 miles of trails that wind around the region. There are also 40 historic sites and more than 6,000 places to dine, so you have plenty of time to sample all the food the city has to offer. Start your eating tour at the eclectic Reading Terminal Market in Center City and don’t stop until you’ve tried some hand-drawn noodles in Chinatown. Where your career begins taking shape. When you start planning for your future, you’ll have the professional and internship opportunities only a large city can provide, as well as the personalized support and mentoring necessary for you to thrive at Temple and beyond. Learn more about professional opportunities in Philadelphia. The Divine Lorraine Hotel, located on Broad Street, remains one of the architectural jewels of North Philadelphia. Located in historic North Philadelphia. Once you’re here, all you have to do is step outside to experience what makes Philly so unique and enriching. Temple’s Main Campus is in North Philadelphia, which has restaurants, coffee shops and green spaces where you can study, catch up with friends or just take in your new community. And, North Philadelphia is rich in culture and history. As you explore your new neighborhood, you’ll see colorful murals by local artists, discover historic buildings and icons such as the Divine Lorraine Hotel and Metropolitan Opera House, and find local nonprofits devoted to the community and its residents. North Philadelphia is also home to many people who helped shape history, like civil rights activist Cecil B. Moore, the namesake for an avenue that runs through Main Campus. Temple's location allows students to easily make their way around Philadelphia. The historic Bell Tower—situated in the heart of campus—serves as the central gateway to campus from the SEPTA regional rail train station, offering students access to various public transportation options to get around and explore the city. Contents Career ConnectionsPhiladelphia ExperienceGetting AroundStart ExploringStudent Experiences Career Connections More than 149,000 Temple alumni live and work in the Philadelphia region, creating an unparalleled professional network for our students. There are opportunities in every industry, and our students seamlessly work internships into their schedules. Learn more about job and internship opportunities in Philadelphia. Visit the Career Center Audrey Ward ’22 Theater Studies Major, School of Theater, Film and Media Arts During her time onstage in the Walnut Street Theatre production of Oscar Wilde’s A Woman of No Importance, Audrey would spend full days studying and attending classes, and then hop the Broad Street Line bound for the theater. “I just knew I wanted to be an actor. I fell in love with it. Then I came to look at Temple, and I knew this was it.” Read more Philadelphia Experience The Philadelphia Experience (PEX) provides undergraduate students the unique opportunity to experience the city and region’s plentiful cultural offerings. We know that you often learn best when you can make meaningful connections between the material you’re studying and your own real-world experiences. To support these connections, the PEX theme is integrated into most General Education coursework. The PEX Passport provides current students with free or reduced-price access to some of the most prominent Philadelphia arts and culture destinations. Any student with a valid Temple ID has access to passport benefits. For more information, including how to use your passport, and to view the full list of partner organizations, visit the PEX dashboard in TUPortal. Visit PEX Return to top Getting Around Are you ready to explore the city? From public transportation to biking, Philadelphia is an easy city to navigate, and many transit options are accessible from campus. And, if you plan to commute to Temple, there are multiple ways to get to our campuses from home or wherever you are. Public Transportation Temple University is a stop on many local public transportation routes. Several public buses, a subway and a regional rail line are all accessible to and from Main Campus. Broad Street Line (BSL) subway. All local Broad Street subway trains stop at Cecil B. Moore Station, at the intersection of Broad Street and Cecil B. Moore Avenue. Buses. The 4, 3, 16 and 23 bus routes all have stops directly on campus and several other bus routes run within a few blocks of campus. Regional Rail lines. All lines stop at Temple University Station, located at 10th and Berks streets. Students commuting to or from Ambler Campus can access regional rail at the Ambler Station. Find more information on SEPTA’s website. Campus Transportation Temple’s door-to-door campus shuttles keep Owls on the move and safe 24/7. Campus transportation includes an overnight service that takes you directly to your door, and walking escorts that are just a phone call away, 24 hours a day. Get information about Temple’s shuttle services. Inter-campus shuttles between Main Campus, Ambler Campus and the Health Sciences Center are also available to students during the fall and spring semesters. Learn more about Temple’s inter-campus shuttle. Biking in Philly Bike culture is booming at Temple: There are 2,100 parking spaces for bikes, six on-campus fix-it stations and a bike discount program. Philadelphia’s bike-sharing service, Indego, also has two stations on campus. Learn more about Temple’s bike culture via Bike Temple. City and Campus Maps Find your way around our city and campuses with these guides. Temple ROUTE is an interactive map of Main Campus that includes accessibility paths. Main Campus (pdf) Ambler Campus (pdf) Health Sciences Center (pdf) Center City Campus (TUCC) (pdf) Temple University Harrisburg Learn more about all of Temple’s campuses. Parking If you drive to campus, Temple offers many options for student parking at Main Campus, Ambler Campus and the Health Sciences Center. The Office of Parking Services provides safe, affordable and convenient parking for our students. We maintain more than 5,000 parking spaces in various permit and access-controlled and self-automated facilities throughout our campuses. Students register for a parking permit through the TU Parking Account System. Learn more about the Office of Parking Services, and view student parking maps of Main and Ambler campuses and the Health Sciences Center. Contact All student parking permit purchases must be completed online until further notice. The office is available by email or phone, Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Phone: 215-204-5301 (Main) or 215-707-2277 (Health Sciences Center) Email: parking@temple.edu Return to top Start Exploring There are limitless opportunities for discovering Philly and expanding your interests outside of your field of study. If you’re new to the city or just looking for ideas about what to do and see, here are some great online resources to get you started. Visit Philly is the official visitors site for the greater Philadelphia region. Uwishunu is the official tourism blog of Philadelphia. Center City District is a guide to the city’s most bustling neighborhood. Campus Philly provides hotel and travel deals for college visits. Inquirer.com is the news site for The Philadelphia Inquirer. Greater Philadelphia Cultural Alliance amplifies the creative voices of the community. Return to top Student Experiences Get a firsthand look at Philly from the perspective of our students. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=skBcqoeprvY&t=10s https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V3ZnaCgcu9E https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rrqDhmMLmE8 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tksNzKX5yCc More to Explore Art & Culture Aquariums & Zoos Adventure Aquarium Philadelphia Zoo Museums African American Museum in Philadelphia Barnes Foundation Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection Museum of the American Revolution National Constitution Center National Museum of American Jewish History Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts Philadelphia Museum of Art Temple Contemporary Theaters Academy of Music Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts Merriam Theater Wilma Theater Government & Travel Center City District City of Philadelphia Philadelphia Convention & Visitors Bureau Philadelphia International Airport PHLASH Local Media Outlets Print & Digital News AL DÍA Metro Philadelphia Gay News The Philadelphia Inquirer Philadelphia Magazine The Philadelphia Sunday SUN The Philadelphia Tribune Philly Voice Television & Radio News 6ABC Action News CBS 3 Philly FOX 29 News Philadelphia NBC 10 Philadelphia WHYY Philadelphia Learn more about Temple-related cultural offerings and opportunities. Then, explore the city and see where you’ll be living and learning. Photo Gallery View slideshow as list Close 1/12 2/12 3/12 4/12 5/12 6/12 7/12 8/12 9/12 10/12 11/12 12/12 Back to Student Life Go back to Student LifeMore in Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info