Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Military and Veteran Students You are here Home Apply Military & Veteran Students About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information At Temple, we’re committed to offering prospective veterans and military-affiliated students the resources they need in college. We have a Military and Veteran Services Center dedicated to helping students navigate their benefits, as well as offering support and resources to students once they’re enrolled. Temple also participates in the Yellow Ribbon Program, which works to offset tuition costs that the Post-9/11 GI Bill® doesn’t cover for out-of-state students. Learn more about how to apply as a veteran or anyone taking advantage of veteran educational benefits. Contents How to ApplyExternal ResourcesROTC How to Apply Veterans, military service members and their beneficiaries who are interested in pursuing a degree at Temple must meet undergraduate admissions requirements to gain admittance to a degree-seeking program. Prior to enrolling at Temple, students using tuition assistance should discuss the educational plan with their Educational Services Officer (ESO) or their counselor within the military service. Contact For assistance with the admissions and enrollment process, using education benefits, financial aid or inquiries related to student support services, please contact Debra Powell-Wright, Veteran Student Services Administrator Phone: 215-204-8387 Email: mvsc@temple.edu Steps to Apply 1. Apply for education benefits If you have not applied for your education benefits, begin the process with Veterans Affairs (VA). Please note that it may take up to two months for your benefits to be approved. If you are applying for education benefits for the first time. Veterans or service members should complete and submit VA Form 22-1990 to the VA. Dependent spouses or children applying for Transfer of Entitlement Program should complete and submit VA Form 22-1990e to the VA. Dependent spouses or children eligible for the Survivors and Dependents Education Assistance Program under Chapter 35 should complete and submit the VA Form 22-5490 to the VA. This is also the case for those eligible for the Fry Scholarship. If you are transferring your education benefits to Temple. Veterans or service members should complete and submit the VA Form 22-1995 to the VA. Dependent spouses or children applying for the Transfer of Entitlement Program should complete and submit VA Form 22-5495 to the VA. Dependent spouses or children eligible for the Survivors and Dependents Education Assistance Program under Chapter 35 should complete and submit the VA Form 22-5490 to the VA. This is also the case for those eligible for the Fry Scholarship. If you are a veteran using Vocational Rehabilitation (Chapter 31). Visit VA eBenefits to complete the process, and submit VA Form 28-1900 to the VA. Your VA counselor may provide VA Form 1905 directly to the School Certifying Official at Temple. VA Form 1905 will be used in lieu of a Certificate of Eligibility. For submitting the Certificate of Eligibility, please see Step #5 below. If you are an out-of-state student. Students charged an out-of-state tuition rate may be eligible for in-state tuition rate under Pennsylvania Act 11 (PA Act 11). Learn more about PA Act 11. 2. Apply to Temple While you wait for the Certificate of Eligibility, or for your VA counselor to submit your VA Form 1905 (Chapter 31- Voc Rehab), you may proceed with your Temple application. Follow the application process steps for either first-year or transfer students. 3. Transfer Joint Services Transcript (JST) and other prior credits Temple accepts academic, college-level courses beyond the developmental level completed with a grade C or better, from schools with regional accreditation. Exceptions to any of these criteria may be considered on appeal. Transfer Credits for Military Service Temple awards college credit for documented military experience according to the American Council on Education (ACE) guide recommendations. Examples of acceptable documentation for military experience include the following. Army/ACE Registry Transcript System (AARTS) Sailor/Marine/ACE Registry Transcript (SMART) Community College of the Air Force transcript If you have any questions, please contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Phone: 215-204-7200 or 888-340-2222 (toll free) Email: askanowl@temple.edu Other Prior Learning Experience Temple also awards limited academic credit and course placement to students based on previous academic, employment, military and/or other learning experiences not earned in a traditional classroom setting. Credit for prior learning, including advanced placement, international baccalaureate, GCE A-levels and College Level Examination Program (CLEP) credits completed prior to attending Temple are posted on a student's record as transfer credit. Learn more about transfer and prior learning. 4. Apply for financial aid We encourage all students to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Temple offers assistance to eligible students typically in one or any combination of the following forms. Educational loans Grants Scholarships Work-study In addition to financial aid awarded by Temple, many outside groups sponsor private scholarships, loans and grants. Learn more about your financial aid options. If your education benefits apply toward tuition, the VA will pay actual net cost for in-state tuition and fees after the application of any funds provided directly to Temple and specifically designated for the sole purpose of defraying tuition and fees. Some students may be eligible for the Yellow Ribbon program, which could offset out-of-state charges. 5. Visit TUportal for next steps Once you have been accepted to Temple, visit TUportal to complete the enrollment process. Service members and veterans are eligible for the following. Priority registration In-state tuition rate upon meeting the eligibility requirements Special scholarship consideration Invitations to events and activities designated for service members and veterans Tuition Deposit Waiver Some students may be eligible for tuition deposit waiver. To be considered for these benefits and more, complete the following steps. After activating your TUPortal account, visit GIBenefits. Complete the service member/dependent information section. Upload your Certificate of Eligibility, eBenefits document or military ID. 6. Declare use of benefits Newly admitted students seeking to use their VA education benefits for the first time should begin by contacting the VA at 1-888-442-4551 or visit va.gov for eligibility information. For newly admitted or first-time students using education benefits, follow these steps to declare use of benefits via GIBenefits in TUportal. Obtain the eBenefits summary document or Certificate of Eligibility. Access GIBenefits in TUportal. Complete service member/dependent information. Upload your Certificate of Eligibility or eBenefits information. Register for courses (each term). Declare to use your benefits for the registered term in GIBenefits (each term). http://www.temple.edu/veterans/about/ Military and Veterans Service Center Temple's resource for prospective and currently enrolled military-affiliated students. Link to Military and Veterans Service Center website. Find More Information Temple thanks you for your service, and invites you to learn more about the resources and benefits available to you as a veteran or an enlisted service member. We offer guidance and support with admissions and financial aid processes, as well as academic and other support services. External Resources GI Bill® Comparison Tool This tool provides key information about college affordability and value so that veteran students can make informed decisions about where to attend school. Calculate your Post-9/11 GI Bill® benefits and research approved programs to compare colleges by tuition and fees, housing allowances, and book stipends. Use the GI Bill® Comparison Tool. College Scorecard The U.S. Department of Education’s College Scorecard is a planning tool designed to assist you and your family as you evaluate school options. Use the College Scorecard tool. College Navigator The College Navigator provides school information including tuition and fees, retention and graduation rates, use of financial aid, and student loan default rates. It also features a cost calculator and a school comparison tool. Use the College Navigator. The Financial Aid Shopping Sheet The U.S. Department of Education’s Financial Aid Shopping Sheet is a sample financial aid award letter designed to simplify information about costs and financial aid so that students can easily compare the costs of attending school. Use the Financial Aid Shopping Sheet. Yellow Ribbon Program The Yellow Ribbon Program is part of the Post-9/11 GI Bill, and Temple is one of the nation’s participating, approved degree-granting institutions. Yellow Ribbon schools make additional funds available for veterans and their dependents who meet eligibility requirements, without an additional charge to their GI Bill entitlement. Learn more about the Yellow Ribbon Program. Paying for College Paying for College is administered by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and can be used to enter the names of up to three schools to receive detailed financial information on each and to enter financial aid award information. Use the Paying for College tool. ROTC at Temple Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) is a leadership course that provides students with the tools, training and experiences they need to become officers in the U.S. Army. For Temple students, ROTC can be a part of your college curriculum. Learn what it’s like to be a student in ROTC. Contact If you have questions about the ROTC program at Temple, contact the individuals below. Marc Young, enrollment officer in the Department of Military Science. Phone: 215-204-7482 Email: myoung01@temple.edu Raymond A. Maszarose, lieutenant colonel in the Department of Military Science. Phone: 215-204-7480 Email: raymond.maszarose@temple.edu https://www.goarmy.com/rotc/schools/temple-university.html Explore ROTC Learn more about the program and the opportunities it offers undergraduate students. Link to U.S. Army website Back to Apply GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government website at benefits.va.gov/gibill. Go back to ApplyMore in Apply First-year Students Transfer Students International Students Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info