Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Application Checklist Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies U.S. Military Applicants Princeton especially welcomes applications from individuals who have actively served in the U.S. military, confident that they bring a valuable perspective to our community of diverse students. From U.S. Military to Princeton University Princeton Veteran Undergraduate Students share their experiences on campus. Application U.S. military-affiliated students apply through the same process as other prospective undergraduates, and determine eligibility for the transfer program or the admissions process for first-year students based on the parameters described in the Transfer Eligibility section. To assist with the process, Princeton will waive the application fee of any candidate who is serving or has served in the U.S. military. On submitting your application, please select the “Princeton-specific fee waiver” option, and we will automatically waive your fee. If you have specific questions about the application process for U.S. military applicants, please contact Alex Bustin, senior associate dean and director of military/veteran admission, at abustin@princeton.edu. Financial Aid Princeton participates in the Yellow Ribbon Program and does not limit the number of students eligible for the program. Veteran students typically receive a combination of benefits through the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, including Yellow Ribbon and the Post-9/11 GI Bill. Princeton’s need-based financial aid program can supplement or even replace the use of veterans benefits toward the total cost of attendance. As a result of our generous need-based grant aid, students generally do NOT use their benefits for undergraduate study at Princeton. Regardless of year of entry or background, all students are eligible for Princeton’s generous need-based financial aid program, which is designed to encourage all students – regardless of financial circumstances – to consider applying. At Princeton: Admission is need-blind, meaning there is no disadvantage to any financial aid applicant. We will meet 100% of demonstrated need for all admitted students for all years of study. We offer aid in the form of grants, not loans, which you do not pay back. Many of our students graduate free of debt from Princeton. Additional Affiliations Princeton is a proud partner with Service to School (S2S), a 501(c)(3) non-profit that provides higher education counseling through professional advisers and peer networks at no cost to veteran applicants. We are part of a small group of institutions involved in their Service to School (S2S) VetLink initiative, launched in 2015 to connect these counselors with our admission representatives. Princeton is also proud to be a host campus to the Warrior-Scholar Project, a national non-profit that provides intensive academic workshops to assist the transition between the military and higher education. Princeton is also a close partner of the Leadership Scholar Program, which works to assist Marines in pursuing their education at highly selective institutions after their transition out of the Marine Corps. For more information about support for military-affiliated students at Princeton, please contact Dr. Keith Shaw, director of transfer, veteran, and non-traditional student programs at kmshaw@princeton.edu. Learn More Presented in collaboration with our partners at the Leadership Scholar Program, Service to School (S2S) and Warrior-Scholar Project. We are joined by admission representatives from Amherst College, Pomona College, Williams College and Yale University to share information about applying as a military-connected student. #TellUsTigers: Clariza Macaspac, Class of 2023, former Navy Petty Officer Read Undergraduate Blog From Uniform to University By Admission Staff Learn More Sam Fendler ’21 carries the flag for Princeton military veterans Read Full content of https://giving.princeton.edu/impact-stories/sam-fendler-military-veterans #TellUsTigers Q&A: Christopher Wilson, Class of 2021, former Marine Read Full content of https://www.princeton.edu/news/2019/11/11/tellustigers-qa-christopher-wilson-class-2021-former-marine U.S. Navy Veteran Clariza Macaspac '23 on Service to School and Applying to Princeton Play Video: U.S. Navy Veteran Clariza Macaspac '23 on Service to School and Applying to Princeton Video of U.S. Navy Veteran Clariza Macaspac &amp;#039;23 on Service to School and Applying to Princeton Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746