Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Research Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Breakthroughs & Ah-ha Moments If you had the chance to make a discovery that garners national attention, changes an industry, or helps to improve quality of life for many thousands of people—all stemming from research you launch as a first-year student—would you seize it? At Dartmouth, we provide you with the guidance, the tools, and in many cases, the funding to create breakthrough knowledge in fields ranging from anthropology to zoology and everything in between. Many of the undergraduates in [Assistant Professor of Chemistry Michael Ragusa's] lab are effectively doing graduate level projects, he says. "Because of the nature of what we do, there are no easy projects, so everything has a very high bar." Read more: Dartmouth Chemist Studies Autophagy, or Cannibalism in Cells Robust Research Infrastructure Not every project changes the world, but each project changes the student who pursues it. That's why our professors are so committed to mentoring undergraduates as researchers and coauthors—and why we've created such a robust infrastructure to support the curiosity, drive, and talent of Dartmouth undergraduates. Undergraduate Advising & Research (UGAR) UGAR exists to create close collaborations between professors and students in one-on-one teaching and mentoring relationships outside the classroom. Through UGAR, you will acquire first-hand experience in an academic field of research while developing skills such as critical thinking, information processing, and effective communication. Undergraduate Research Grants Dartmouth provides funding of up to $4,800 for 10 weeks of full-time leave research under the guidance of a Dartmouth faculty mentor. Women in Science Project (WISP) WISP internships match first-year and sophomore women interested in STEM fields with faculty mentors and ongoing research projects. James O. Freedman Presidential Scholarships Juniors perform hands-on research in part-time paid assistantships with a Dartmouth faculty mentor. Senior Fellowships Gives you the ability to devote your entire senior year to a substantial independent project that pushes beyond the bounds of the existing Dartmouth curriculum. Sophomore and Junior Research Scholarships Spend one to two terms working as a part-time paid research assistant with a Dartmouth faculty mentor. Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowships at Dartmouth Supports sophomores and juniors from underrepresented minority groups and students who have demonstrated a commitment to the objectives of the Mellon Mays fellowships in their preparation for doctoral studies. Honors Thesis Grants Receive up to $2,500 toward the cost of your senior honors thesis research. Mini-grants Cover conference registration fees up to $300 for an individual student or up to $1,000 to cover the costs of an on-campus event or program by a student organization. I'm very lucky to be going to school where I am because right up here at Dartmouth, the Geisel Medical School is one of the most prestigious CF labs in the country and it was so easy just to get involved. All I had to do is shoot out an email and ask if I could come work in the lab. I started working on research with Bruce Stanton's team and the lung biology lab. - Sam Neff '21 Sam Neff '21 fights cystic fibrosis (CF) every day by following a strict treatment regimen, by contributing to CF research in Geisel’s Lung Biology Center, and by participating in a clinical trial at Dartmouth-Hitchcock. In this video, Sam talks about how being at Dartmouth is helping him take on cystic fibrosis. Big Green News Feed All News Stories Ten Research Fellowships Go to Students and Alumni Goldwater Awards Help Five Juniors Pursue Research Back in the Washington Lane Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog Keep reading if you want to learn how I have been involved with Women in Science at Dartmouth, and why psychology is most definitely a STEM subject. Read More Women In Science Eda Naz Gokdemir 2025 Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback