Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Academics / Academics at Tulane custom css-js - global Academics at Tulane Majors & Minors Degrees & Requirements Core Curriculum Accelerated Degree Programs TIDES Scholars Programs Earning College Credit AP, IB & A Level Exams Facilities & Resources Libraries Technology Advising Career Services Art, Culture, & Research Centers Technology Connection Tulane’s interdisciplinary education provides students the opportunity to apply classroom learning to benefit the surrounding community. As the first private research university to institute a public service requirement, Tulane provides an undergraduate education of equaled quality while uniting academics and action, classroom and communities through which students, faculty, and community partners dedicate themselves to the transformation of civic life. Overview Tulane pairs the resources of a large research university with the benefits of a small liberal arts college. Small class sizes are the norm, and faculty members are both accessible and approachable. Our 7,916 full-time undergraduate students are able to choose from over 75 different majors and minors. By completing Tulane's core curriculum, students are exposed to academic foundations in writing, foreign language, scientific inquiry, and cultural knowledge. All students enter as undergraduates through the Newcomb-Tulane Undergraduate College. Once a student selects a major, he or she becomes affiliated with one of 5 undergraduate schools: Architecture, Business, Liberal Arts, Public Health, or Science and Engineering. Students combine our 75+ majors into unique double majors (even across schools), because all students remain part of the unified undergraduate college. Public Service Tulane's commitment to engaging students in the world around them is manifested through the public service component of the curriculum. With a combination of coursework and internships, Tulane students have the opportunity to blend intellectual exploration with personal growth, and make a real difference in the process. Study Abroad Tulane also encourages students to enhance their college experience by studying abroad. Tulane's Office of Study Abroad offers over 100 different programs in over 40 different countries. Majors & Minors Degrees & Requirements Core Curriculum Accelerated Degree Programs TIDES Scholars Programs Earning College Credit AP, IB & A Level Exams Facilities & Resources Libraries Technology Advising Career Services Art, Culture, & Research Centers Technology Connection Did You Know? The Rouses Supermarket on Baronne Street has a rooftop aquaponic garden that uses technology from a company founded by two former Tulane students. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University