Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home Graduate Finances Graduate Toggle navigation Graduate Menu Admissions Finances The Graduate School Graduate Finances There are numerous funding options available for your graduate education. In addition to federal financial aid which requires the completion of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), the University and academic departments award fellowships, grants, waivers, and assistantships. You are also encouraged to explore external funding opportunities available through various agencies like the National Science Foundation. Tuition Rates Funding & Awards Financial Aid The Office of Financial Aid at Florida State exists to assist students with securing federal, state, and institutional financial aid to achieve their degree. Each year, they award and administer more than 350 million dollars in financial aid to eligible students. Students receive aid in the form of scholarships, grants, work study, and loans - funds that help them to focus on their education and complete their degree. Scholarships Grants Academic Common Market The Academic Common Market (ACM), offered through the Southern Regional Education Board (SREB), is a tuition-savings program for college students who want to pursue graduate degrees that are not offered by their in-state institutions. Students can enroll in out-of-state institutions that offer their degree program and pay the institution's in-state tuition rates. To qualify you must: Be a resident of one of the 16 SREB states (Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia). Select a program eligible for residents of your home state. Be admitted to the appropriate degree program at Florida State University. Be certified as a resident of your home state by contacting the ACM Coordinator for your state of residence. The letter of certification must be received in the Office of the University Registrar before the first day of classes for the effective term. For additional information on the Academic Common Market, visit http://www.sreb.org/academic-common-market. To begin viewing programs that are approved for your state of residence, visit http://home.sreb.org/acm/choosestate.aspx. Quick Links Seminole Tribe Land Acknowledgement College & Career Planning Tool Career Center FSU Highlights Apply Online Visit Us Publications Check Your Application Status Application Changes Form Residency Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Professional Licensure Transfer Student Services Aspire TCC2FSU Program FSU-Panama City Campus The Graduate School Student Veterans Center Office of Accessibility Services Student Profiles "One of the things I try to help my students understand is that the choices they make now and the person they are right now makes a difference." Kathleen Callahan Higher Education "My ultimate goal as a scientist is to contribute some important piece of knowledge to the world that did not exist before." Tania Reynolds Social Psychology "My most memorable achievement to date was being awarded the Truman Scholarship... it would have not been possible without faculty support." Daniel Hubbard Psychology & Sociology Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University.