Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission School Forms Give your recommenders plenty of time to complete and submit their forms. Breadcrumb Home First-Year Applicants Sub Navigation In This Section Early Decision Regular Decision Application Checklist Standardized Tests School Forms Selecting Academic Interests Supplementary Materials Video Introduction / Alumni Interview School Forms Give your recommenders plenty of time to complete and submit their forms. Transcripts An official transcript of your complete high school academic record must be sent to the Office of College Admission directly from each secondary school you have attended. We will accept transcripts submitted by your school(s) through online services, such as Docufide, Naviance and the Common Application. If you are unable to submit through one of these online services, please arrange to have your materials sent by email to documents@brown.edu or by fax to 401-863-9300. School Reports School Report The School Report form is available through the Common Application website. Please ask your school counselor or other school official to complete and submit this form. Midyear School Report and Transcript Due February 24 or as soon as possible upon the completion of your first semester or second trimester of your final year of high school, the Midyear Report and Transcript can be submitted online through the Common Application by your guidance counselor or another school official. The Midyear Report includes information such as your GPA and class rank (if your school provides this information), and shares with us whether there have been any course changes or other updates since you have submitted your application. It is accompanied by a Midyear Transcript that includes your most recent available grades. If you are not given midyear grades or evaluations (e.g., home schooled students, some non-U.S. schools), please include a note explaining your circumstances under the “Additional Information” heading on the writing section of the Common Application. Final School Report and Transcript Due by June 24 for students who have chosen to matriculate at Brown, the Final School Report and Transcript should be submitted online through the Common Application by your school counselor or another school official. The Final School Report confirms your graduation date and alerts us of any course changes or other updates. The Final Transcript will include your final grades and confirm your successful completion of your secondary education. Recommendations Counselor Recommendation Please note that the School Report and the Counselor Recommendation are separate items on the Common Application. Be sure to "invite" your school counselor or academic advisor to complete both items. Teacher Evaluations/Recommendations Two letters of recommendation from teachers who have taught you in major academic subjects (science, social studies, mathematics, a foreign language or English) must be submitted through the Common Application or by email or fax. If sending by email or fax, please include the applicant's name, date of birth and high school. Letters sent by email should be sent as a PDF attachment. Bachelor of Science and PLME Recommendations If you are considering a Bachelor of Science degree or the Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME), at least one of your recommendations should come from a math or science teacher. Grades Early Decision applicants are required to have their counselor submit first quarter or trimester grades as soon as they are available. All applicants should have their school submit midyear or second trimester grades as soon as they are available, with a deadline of February 24. Admitted students who have chosen to matriculate at Brown will also need their school to submit final grades and confirmation of graduation no later than July 1. When to Submit Secondary school personnel do not need to wait until you have submitted your application before making their contributions. The online system will lead you through the process of supplying the names and email addresses of your counselor and teachers so that user accounts can be created for them. They will then be able to submit forms on your behalf electronically. It is best to ensure that all application materials are sent by the deadline. However, if your application and application payment/fee waiver are submitted by the deadline, it is acceptable to have some of your supporting materials (transcripts, test scores, letters of recommendation, etc.) arrive within the following week. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search School Forms Open details for School Forms Bookmark this Page