Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Tuition and Aid We believe that making an impact and addressing critical issues in the world demands an undergraduate experience that reflects a diversity of views, experiences and perspectives. Tuition and Aid We believe that making an impact and addressing critical issues in the world demands an undergraduate experience that reflects a diversity of views, experiences and perspectives. We actively seek students from all income groups and practice need-blind admission, which means that an applicant’s ability or inability to pay the cost of tuition does not determine our admission decision. Brown meets 100 percent of demonstrated financial need. Through The Brown Promise initiative, we have eliminated packaged loans from all undergraduate financial aid awards. Our generous financial aid ensures that financial considerations do not prevent talented students from choosing Brown. Learn More New Student Tuition & Fees New Student Tuition and Fees for the 2022-2023 Academic Year Financial Aid Information for Applicants Financial aid is one of Brown’s highest priorities. Learn more about deadlines, the Brown Promise and need-blind admission. Office of Financial Aid Brown’s commitment to affordability has never been stronger, and the Office of Financial Aid works to provide comprehensive support and quality service. A Brown education is more affordable than you think Do you have three minutes? With six basic financial questions, the MyinTuition calculator will provide a personalized estimate on financial aid packages and a range of what you might expect to pay for one year at Brown. MyinTuition Calculator We also encourage you to explore non-Brown sources of aid, including state and private scholarships funds. Private scholarships will not reduce the amount of scholarship aid you receive from Brown unless those funds exceed the portion of your financial aid package represented by work-study and summer earnings. 100% of students receiving financial aid have no loans in their financial aid packages $0 parent contribution for most families with less than $60,000 in annual income 44% of the Class of 2025 received need-based scholarship or grant aid Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Tuition and Aid Open details for Tuition and Aid Bookmark this Page