This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Skip to main content University of Cincinnati left arrow UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow Undergraduate AdmissionsAdmissions Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) right arrow down arrow SRAR FAQ Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow Recommended Courses Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer Accelerated College English (ACE) Program Conditional Admission Math Placement Test (MPT) English Exemptions A-level and IB Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Bearcats Everywhere Scholarship Admitted Student Resources Events & Social Media Events & Social Media Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students right arrow down arrow Fall 2020 Next Steps Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Admitted Transfer Student Series Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Campus Resources Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services High Achieving Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Graduation Cap Ideas Down the Drive right arrow down arrow Students Tell All Bearcats Challenge right arrow down arrow Challenge Rules Schedule & Registration Prize Information Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Test-Optional Admission right arrow down arrow Test-Optional FAQ Test Plan Choice Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media COVID-19 Updates Virtual Event Series Know what career you want but not sure which major will take you there? Want to learn more about Financial Aid opportunities at UC? You are invited to our Virtual Event Series! What is the Virtual Event Series? One-hour, virtual information sessions that will allow you to explore academic and financial aid opportunities here at Cincinnati. You can pick sessions that interest you to learn more about: What Computer Tech Major is for Me? Exercise & Health Sciences Career Pathways Pathways to Law School at UC Architecture vs. Architectural Engineering Production PathwaysSessions will include: What Computer Tech Major is for Me? The University of Cincinnati offers a variety of programs to study and learn about computers and technology. Join our webinar to learn more about the world of computers at UC to help in selecting the right major for you. Exercise & Health Sciences Career Pathways Are you interested in the prevention and treatment of injury, working with athletes, managing a fitness facility, or becoming a strength and conditioning coach? Explore UC's health and exercise careers through our Exercise Science and Health Sciences majors. Pathways to Law School at UC Let us help you find the right path for you! UC’s Pre-Professional Advising Center, in conjunction with the College of Arts & Sciences, College of Business and the College of Education, Criminal Justice, Human Services & Information Technology invite you to hear how each pathway prepares students for Law School. Architecture vs. Architectural Engineering Are you interested in becoming an Architect? Learn what how the University of Cincinnati can help you achieve your goal and during this all-virtual session. You’ll hear from students in the program and our professional staff and have the chance to ask any questions. Production Pathways Interested in audio production but not sure what college pathway to take? Join us to learn from the College-Conservatory of Music and College of Arts & Science to learn about their different audio production degrees! This session will include a student perspective film, presentation, and Q&A. There are no upcoming events to display. Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Copyright Information © 2022 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2022 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top