Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions » Non-Degree Students Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Non-Degree Student Admission Information Non-degree enrollment status is designed for students who wish to take courses but do not plan to pursue a degree. Non-degree students do not qualify for financial aid. Non-degree students are part-time students and are expected to enroll in no more than eight credits per term. Students wishing to take more than 8 credits per term must be admitted as a degree-seeking student. Admission Deadlines Admission Requirements Non-degree enrollment status does not require a formal admission process or formal entrance requirements. Enrollment as a non-degree student does not guarantee regular admission to the University. Students wishing to apply for full admission should refer to the appropriate instructions for first year, transfer, post baccalaureate, graduate admissions, or postdoctoral. Please note that academic performance is not the sole criterion for admission to the university. The university may evaluate a person's behavior and background to determine their ability to maintain the standards of academic and professional conduct expected at the university. Simply qualifying for admission does not guarantee admission. Enrollment Specifics Approval as a non-degree student is for a specific term. If you are unable to attend and/or wish to enroll later, please contact the Office of Admissions immediately at 800-291-4192. Non-degree students are part-time students who are expected to enroll in eight credits or fewer per term, Fall, Winter and Spring. If you wish to enroll for more than eight credits a term, you are required to apply for regular admission. Domestic non-degree students wishing to attend Summer Term are able to register for up to 16 credits. Non-degree students are given grades, reviewed according to the university standards of good academic progress, and provided with academic records. Successful enrollment as a non-degree student does not guarantee regular admission to the university. Students wishing to apply for full admission to the university should contact the Office of Admissions at 800-291-4192 or email [email protected], with your Oregon State ID number. Credits earned while enrolled as a non-degree undergraduate student will be applied to your record, if applicable to a degree, upon formal admission. In the future, if you wish to enroll as a degree-seeking student, OSU will apply a maximum of 36 of the most recently completed credits taken as a non-degree student to your degree program. Non-degree Undergraduate Status If you have not earned a baccalaureate degree and would like to take courses without pursuing a bachelor's degree, you will be designated as a non-degree undergraduate student. There is a $30 non-refundable application fee and transcripts are not required. Please note, a maximum of 36 of the most recently completed credits taken as a non-degree student may be applied to an undergraduate degree program at OSU. The non-degree application generally takes one week to process. Non-degree Graduate Status If you have earned a baccalaureate degree and now wish to take courses without pursuing a degree, you will be designated as a non-degree graduate student. There is a $35 non-refundable application fee. If you decide to seek admission to a degree program, be aware that credit(s) taken under the non-degree admission status may not apply toward that degree program. Students must also complete 30 graduate credits after full admission to degree-seeking status, regardless of the number of credits completed under non-degree status. Any questions should be directed to the Graduate School at 541-737-4881. Summer Term Credit hours are restricted for non-degree students during summer term to an accumulative of 19 credits for the entire term. OSU Grade and Transcript Information Non-degree students are given grades, reviewed according to the University standards of good academic progress, and provided with academic records. Oregon State University does not mail grade reports. Students can access final course grades by using the OSU Web site. Students may ask to have a grade report mailed at no cost by contacting the Registrar's Office, 102 Kerr Administration Building, or calling 541-737-4331. For information on how to order an official transcript, visit: Transcripts. Tuition and Fees Non-degree students enrolled in eight or fewer credits are assessed tuition and fees at resident rates based on undergraduate or graduate course level. Payment of the health service and counseling fees is optional. Enrollment in excess of eight credits requires tuition and fee assessment at the rate for a regularly enrolled, fully admitted student. Summer term tuition is assessed according to the Tuition & Fees schedule in the Summer Bulletin or the on the Summer Session website. Read about Oregon State's Tuition, Fees and Payment information. Additional Tuition Information Financial Aid Anyone under non-degree enrollment status is not eligible for financial aid. ONID Registration You will also need to register your ONID account using your OSU ID. ONID stands for OSU Network Identifier. Your ONID username is automatically generated and assigned based upon a combination of your last name followed by your first name as listed in University records, and is limited to 8 characters. Your ONID is NOT the same as your 9-digit OSU ID number. You will also need to register for DUO. DUO provides secure two-step mobile verification for your student records. (You need an ONID account before signing up for DUO) Registration Non-degree students follow the registration procedures and policies as outlined in the Schedule of Classes. Please view the Priority Registration Schedule to see the date you may register for classes. Once you apply for non-degree admission you will receive an email containing your OSU ID and other registration information. You can access the OSU Web registration system by choosing Student Online Services from the OSU Home Page. Next, choose Quick login for your student services. Then enter your Student ID and GAP numbers. To register for classes you will log into MyOregonState portal. If you want to take a class that has prerequisites or other registration restrictions you will need to contact the instructor for that course to override the registration. Non-degree students may be asked to take placement tests or provide transcripts from previously attended colleges in order to verify the student's completion and/or grade(s) of past course work prior to enrolling in certain OSU courses. Distance (Ecampus) non-degree students must complete the Ecampus online orientation to receive a PIN number required for registering. Student Identification Card Registered students (but not Ecampus students) are expected to obtain a Student Identification Card through the ID Center. GAP Number Your GAP (General Access Pin) is a secure number known only to you. It allows you to access your student record. The GAP is initially set to your birth date, formatted as mmddyy. Upon initial access to the OSU Web student services system, you will be asked to change this number to a unique six-digit number. Course Reference Number (CRN) Each course offering is assigned a unique number known as the CRN. Immunization Records Non-degree students are required to submit their Immunization Record and Health History Form to the Student Health Center if they intend to attend classes on campus. Please read the following details about your non-degree status and let us know if you have any questions. How to Apply You can apply for non-degree status by using the online application. The non-degree application generally takes one week to process. Please plan accordingly and don't wait too close to the application deadline. Office of Admissions Oregon State University 104 Kerr Administration Building Corvallis, OR 97331 Telephone: 541-737-4411 First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram