Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Transfer Admission Frequently asked questions about transfer admission Breadcrumb Home Frequently Asked Questions How do I apply for transfer admission? By March 1 transfer applicants must have submitted the Transfer Common Application and the application essay questions specific to Brown. Who is eligible to apply as a transfer applicant and how many semesters must I be enrolled at Brown University? To be eligible for transfer admission you must have completed at least one full year of college study (or its equivalent) before your planned matriculation at Brown. Both part-time and full-time students at accredited two- and four-year colleges may seek transfer admission. University rules stipulate that anyone admitted as a transfer must be enrolled full-time at Brown for at least four semesters prior to earning their undergraduate degree. For this reason we discourage (but do not forbid) transfer applications from students who will have accrued more than four semesters of college work prior to their enrollment at Brown. We only admit transfers with more than four semesters of completed college work in rare circumstances. High school students who are currently pursuing a dual enrollment program or an early admission program should apply to Brown as first-year applicants. Will the courses I take at my current college transfer to Brown? Generally speaking most liberal arts courses taken at other colleges and universities are transferable to Brown. More specifically, Brown will transfer credit for courses at other colleges that are similar to courses offered in our own curriculum. If you are wondering which of your classes may receive credit you should peruse Brown's online Course Search to see if the University offers a similar course. Brown will not award transfer credit for correspondence courses, online courses, courses taken during summer programs, or for courses that were taken as part of a dual enrollment curriculum. Brown also will not award transfer credit for AP test scores. University courses that the pandemic necessitated be taught remotely will still be considered for transfer credit in the same manner as in-person courses. Any courses that were taken remotely due to the pandemic will not negatively impact chances of admission or transfer credit. The University will not evaluate transferable credit prior to acceptance. Transferable credit is determined after a student enrolls. When an applicant is accepted, their acceptance letter will include information about the semester level at which they will enter (first-semester sophomore, second-semester sophomore or first-semester junior), but the number of transferable courses will not be determined until the College has access to an admitted applicant's final college transcript (typically in the summer for fall admits, or winter for spring admits) before they enroll. What is the deadline for submitting my transfer application, and when will I find out a decision? The application deadline for transfer admission is March 1. You will receive a decision in early May. May I apply for a fee waiver, and if so, how? If the transfer application fee constitutes a financial hardship we will accept a signed letter from an official at your current college as a fee waiver. The letter should be sent to Brown’s Office of College Admission by a dean, academic advisor or financial aid officer at your current college. The letter should be on your current college’s letterhead, it should be hand-signed by the college official and it should explain, briefly, why the application fee constitutes a financial hardship. Am I eligible for financial aid as a transfer applicant? We offer limited financial aid for transfer applicants and are need-aware when making decision on transfer applications. Students who feel that they may require financial assistance during their time at Brown should apply for financial aid when they make their initial application for transfer admission. Please visit the Office of Financial Aid website for more information regarding financial aid at Brown. What standardized testing do you require of transfer applicants, and what if I didn't need to take standardized testing to be admitted to my present school? Brown is test optional for transfer applicants through the 2022-2023 admission cycle, meaning that test scores are not a required component of the transfer application this year. If you would like to include test scores for review in your application, testing must be completed by February to ensure receipt of scores. You may use your Brown Applicant Portal to self-report test scores that were not included on your Common Application. More information on our standardized testing policies can be found on our website. While not required, a test of English proficiency is highly recommended for international applicants. If I applied to Brown for first-year admission in the past, do I need to submit my scores again? If you wish to use the official test scores that you submitted with a prior application, then you do not need to resend those scores. If you would prefer that we not consider scores that have previously been submitted to Brown, please let us know in writing by emailing transferapp@brown.edu. May I submit supplementary information that you have not requested with my transfer application? If you are accomplished in music, you may include additional supplements with your application in the Common Application, through SlideRoom. You do not need to wait for access to your Brown Applicant Portal to upload music to SlideRoom. When submitting through SlideRoom, Transfer material submission deadline is March 15. Please note: SlideRoom only accepts one submission; if submitting two, you will need to sign up with a second email account. What letters of recommendation should I submit? Transfer candidates must submit two instructor evaluations from faculty who have taught you at your current college. (We will accept evaluations from TAs who have been your instructors.) These letters must be submitted through the Common Application or sent via email to transferapp@brown.edu or by fax to 401-863-9300. Material sent by email or fax should include the applicant's name, date of birth and high school. Letters sent by email should be sent as PDF attachments. If there are not two faculty members or TAs from whom you are able to request an evaluation, you may replace one of the required letters with a recommendation from a teacher from your senior year of high school. What sort of school reports should I submit? In addition to an official transcript showing courses in progress, you must submit an official transcript(s) and final grades from all previous college coursework. If necessary, an interim unofficial transcript of current work may be submitted. However, a final and official transcript will still be required before you are permitted to enroll at Brown. We require that you have your high school mail us an official copy of your final high school transcript. We recommend, but do not require, that transfer applicants also have their high school counselor send us a completed copy of the Common Application School Report. Do you require a transcript or final report from my high school? We require that your high school send us an official copy of your high school transcript. We recommend, but do not require, a copy of your Final Report (which is typically completed by your high school counselor). You are asking for some material that I am not able to submit, what should I do? The Transfer Application, Instructor Evaluations, College Report, Mid-Term Report, College Transcript, Final High School Transcript and appropriate standardized testing results are all required. While we may evaluate an application with missing credentials, the most competitive applications will be from those who have submitted all required materials. If I studied outside of the United States, do you still require a transcript and final report from my high school? We require an official high school transcript regardless of where you attended high school, and we require that the official transcript be sent to us either by your original high school or by your current college. We will not accept transcripts that are sent to us by an applicant directly. We recommend that you ask your original high school to send us a Final Report as well, but it is not required. Do you require interviews for transfer applicants? No. Interviews are not offered for transfer applicants. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Transfer Admission Open details for Transfer Admission Bookmark this Page