Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Eating Clubs Eating clubs serve as dining halls and social centers for their members, providing a comfortable place to relax, study and socialize. Eating clubs are one of many dining options at Princeton. Princeton’s eating clubs have a long historical association with the University. Many students have questions about the eating clubs when they first arrive on campus: Are they simply clubs for eating? How does membership work? What if a student doesn’t want to join? An Overview The 11 eating clubs are all co-ed and open to juniors and seniors. They are entirely optional and juniors and seniors who choose not to join have many other dining options, such as at the dining halls in the six residential colleges. Eating clubs serve as dining halls and social centers for their members, providing a comfortable place to relax, study and socialize. They offer members activities such as field trips, formals and semi-formals, movie nights and mini-golf. They also host guests and the larger campus community for concerts, parties and other events. The clubs are located in houses along Prospect Avenue, known on campus simply as “The Street.” They are governed by undergraduate student officers, a board of alumni and a club manager. You can view a video introduction to the eating clubs here. Inside an Eating Club In addition to meals and social activities, the clubs serve as intellectual communities where students debate, discuss and explore the ideas they’ve encountered in the classroom. Many clubs regularly invite professors to dine with members, and precepts are often hosted in the clubs. The clubs also sponsor educational, community service and intramural athletic programs. Each offers dedicated study space, libraries, computers, internet access and audio-visual equipment for members to use. Eating clubs serve the campus community and the greater Princeton community through initiatives such as tutoring underprivileged high school students for the SAT, running college application workshops for local students and organizing clothing and canned food drives. The clubs work individually and as a “street-wide” group, and often collaborate with local organizations and student groups. Applying and “Bickering” Four of Princeton’s eating clubs have first-come, first-serve membership called “sign-ins.” Sophomores who wish to join an eating club list the clubs in the order of their preference, with up to 11 friends. If more students sign in than a club can accept, a lottery is held and members are chosen at random. Seven clubs engage in a selection process called “bicker,” in which students apply for membership, and current members bid, or bicker, for new members. It’s a voluntary process and any student who isn’t accepted may enter a second round of sign-ins for clubs with open membership. Costs and Financial Aid Eating clubs are somewhat more expensive than other dining options. Since the University values equal opportunities for all its students, financial aid for all juniors and seniors is calculated based on the average cost of an eating club meal plan, not including social and initiation fees. Eating Clubs at Princeton Play Video: Eating Clubs at Princeton Video of Eating Clubs at Princeton Undergraduate Blog Five Myths About Eating Clubs Debunked By Rachel Newman Learn More Full content of /blogs/five-myths-about-eating-clubs-debunked Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746