Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Tours The land on which the University stands is part of the ancient homeland and unceded traditional territory of the Lenape people. We pay respect to Lenape peoples, past, present, and future and their continuing presence in the homeland and throughout the Lenape diaspora. Learn more. Whether you experience campus virutally or in-person, you will see Princeton University's park-like campus is revered for its architectural and natural beauty. Our 600-acre residential community is located in central New Jersey in a cosmopolitan town of approximately 30,000 residents. The University is centrally located between Philadelphia and New York City and is accessible by many means of transportation, including Amtrak and NJ Transit. Princeton University has its own NJ Transit train station on campus. If you decide to visit campus, we recommend you consult our list of local resources, including restaurants and lodging, as well as directions to Princeton’s campus. Visitor parking is located in Lot 23 along Faculty Road on the south end of campus. Campus Tours Student-led Campus Tour and In-person Admission Information Session Join us for an in-person admission information session and/or a student-led tour of our beautiful 600-acre campus On weekdays, we offer in-person Admission Information Session and a student-led campus tour. Weekend visitors will have the opportunity to register for a student-led tour. Your tour guides will share their Princeton experience with you as you stroll through the heart of the University and learn more about our history, traditions and academic programs. Registration is required and space is limited. Register now Self-Guided Tour Take a self-guided campus tour via your smartphone. Download Adora, an app created by Princeton students, and explore campus from your fingertips. Text Princeton to 58052 to start exploring campus. Take a Self-Guided Tour Group Tours Explore campus with your school or community-based organization. School groups and community-based organizations looking to bring ten or more students on a campus tour can request a guided group tour. All visits are subject to approval. Due to space constraints, we are only able to offer group tours on Wednesdays in the spring of 2022. Request a Guided Group Tour Virtual Tours YouVisit Virtual Tour Explore campus from your desktop or smartphone. Our 23-stop tour, led by Princeton undergraduates, highlights academic buildings, athletic complexes and many student support services. The tour is available in four languages. Take a virtual tour Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746