Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search FROST Home FROST Home FROST Admissions FROST Events About Us Meet the Dean The Frost Method Uniquely Frost Reasons to Apply Ensembles Top Alumni Community & Summer Programs Student Resources Undergraduate How to Apply Degree Programs Audition Requirements Instrument/Program Requirements Scholarships & Financial Support FAQs Graduate How to Apply Degree Programs Audition Requirements Scholarships & Financial Support Frost Online FAQs Faculty By Instrument By Program Department Chairs Visit Facilties Take a Tour Schedule a Visit Arriving at UM Directions & Parking Life in Miami Concert Calendar Contact Us Request Information Staff About Us Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Visit Contact Us Search About Us Meet the Dean The Frost Method Uniquely Frost Reasons to Apply Ensembles Top Alumni Community & Summer Programs Student Resources Undergraduate How to Apply Degree Programs Audition Requirements Instrument/Program Requirements Scholarships & Financial Support FAQs Graduate How to Apply Degree Programs Audition Requirements Scholarships & Financial Support Frost Online FAQs Faculty By Instrument By Program Department Chairs Visit Facilties Take a Tour Schedule a Visit Arriving at UM Directions & Parking Life in Miami Concert Calendar Contact Us Request Information Staff GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply FROST Home AAA This could be YOU! Discover... The purpose of your music. This could be YOU! Learn… How to communicate with your audience. This could be YOU! Discover… How to make the world better with your research. This could be YOU! Learn… What is expected from a live performance versus a recording. This could be YOU! Discover… The career that is right for you. This could be YOU! Learn… How your life experiences can enrich your music and research. Build Yourself At The Frost School of Music Build Yourself At The Frost School of Music Frost School Admissions The Frost School of Music at the University of Miami is renowned for its unique Frost Method® curriculum which creates musicians that have artistic, technological, and entrepreneurial skills to thrive and succeed in the rapidly changing world of professional music. 91.3% of graduates have jobs or are in graduate school within six months of graduation. Course work and performance opportunities afford 700 students a rare and musically diverse education. Frost is a top choice for the highest level of education in classical, jazz and pop, as well as music engineering, music education, music therapy and music business. Frost offers a wide spectrum of degrees for virtually every area of musical study and research. The Frost School of Music at the University of Miami has been an institutional member of the National Association of Schools of Music since 1939. Undergraduate Information Request Graduate Information Request How to apply Find Your Program Take a Tour Quick Links Application Deadlines Depending on what degree program you select, there are several different deadlines. Find out which ones apply to you! College Fairs Find out which cities our Admissions Team will be visiting. Your city could be next! Student Resourcecs We offer students unparalleled academic support, enrichment activities galore, and endless opportunities to explore, engage, and better the world. Uniquely Frost Discover what makes us stand out from the rest! Read about the Frost Method and more. Score Magazine Our annual publication collects the stories of students, alumni, and faculty, highlighting their achievements and imprinting their legacy in the music industry. FAQs Let us help you answer your questions! Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Frost Online Frost Scholarships Frost Overview 126 Faculty (Full-Time & Part-Time) 12:1 Student : Faculty Ratio 300+ Performances 1926 Established 86.6% Graduation Rate 96% Undergrad Retention Rate U MIAMI ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Frost School of Music Music Administration Center (MAC) 5503 San Amaro Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-6168 305-284-6168 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit UM Campus Map Frost Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices