This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Skip to main content Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Admissions Admissions Home Undergraduate Graduate Alternative Paths Counselors Find Out More Campus Slideshow Degree Programs Graduate School Rankings and Brags Request Information Related Links Calhoun Honors College Diversity and Inclusion Financial Aid Housing and Dining Net Price Calculator Residency Requirements Security and Fire Safety Report Transfer Course Equivalency List Main Content Clemson University Visit Welcome to Tigertown!! We look forward to sharing about Clemson's campus, student life and what makes the Clemson Family unique! Clemson University continues to be under a modified operation plan in response to COVID-19. Visitors to campus must adhere to all guidelines during your time in the community. For the latest COVID updates, please visit our COVID-19 website. We are excited to offer limited capacity in-person visit opportunities. All guests must adhere to the safety guidelines while on campus. The statement of expectations included in the registration will be upheld for your entire visit to campus. We continue to also offer virtual visit opportunities weekly. Please confirm the visit category prior to registration. All guests must have reservations. No walk-in visitors will be allowed to participate in guided tours. Guided tour capacity is limited, there is no waitlist. COVID protocols are subject to change. Additional registration opportunities will be added as available. The registered student is limited to three total registered guests, who reside in the same household on the guided tour. During your visit, student tour guides will give you an overview of the University as well as the ins and outs of campus life. The walking tour will be limited to the outside of buildings only. There will be no access to residence halls, gyms, academic buildings, or dining facilities during this tour or during your time on campus. If you have any accessibility needs, including closed captioning for the virtual sessions, please contact visit@admission.clemson.edu at least 5 days prior to your scheduled event. Select a date on the calendar to see the visits available! Please confirm the visit category prior to registration. Legend: Available Unavailable / Filled Not Scheduled Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift