Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Publications and Printed Resources Get on our mailing listApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Dartmouth Admissions Publications and Printed Resources You might be familiar with the facts, figures, and statistics that people often use to compare Dartmouth to other places. But to truly understand this place, you'll want to dive deeper and get to know the people and perspectives that animate the College and will shape your experience. Our suite of printed materials helps you do just that. 3D: The Dartmouth admissions magazine. 3D tells the story of Dartmouth in all of its dimensions through student and faculty profiles, features about Dartmouth's unique academic programs, opportunities, and outcomes, and columns that highlight life on campus. Campus Visit Guide: See yourself here. Dream about your perfect day in Hanover with our campus visit guide, which introduces you to some of our students' favorite places and lets you imagine what a few of your favorite days as a Dartmouth student might look and feel like. There's no substitute for being here, but if there were, it might be this. Meet the Humans of Hanover: A melodic classicist, an Everest conqueror, and a (literal) mover of earth are three of the many students at Dartmouth who illustrate how the College empowers students to think across disciplines and aspire without limits. Read about these three and others in our profile publication on the humans of Hanover. Meet the Humans of Hanover, International Edition: An aquatic fashionista, a dancing writer, and a creative activist are three of the international students who give Dartmouth a global vibe and infuse its campus culture with a diversity of perspectives. Read about them and others in our profile publication of international students at Dartmouth. Together We Can: We brought together a diverse group of students to share their honest perspectives on being and belonging at Dartmouth. First-generation, low-income, LGBTQ, urban, rural, West coast, East coast (and no coast!) students share how they carved their path and found community here. We hope their insight gives you a sense of how you might do the same. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback