Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Admissions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Explore Select to follow link Academics Student Life Success Afford Select to follow link Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Costs Visit Select to follow link Special Events Group Visits Schools & Spaces Plan Select to follow link College Prep Curriculum Apply Select to follow link Major-Specific Requirements High School Equivalency Exams Need-Based and Military Fee Waivers Credit Transfer Select to follow link Appealing Credit Decisions Credit and Exemption for High School Work Community College Guides Transfer and KU Core Codes Update Your Application Enroll Select to follow link Freshman Enrollment Select to follow link Freshman Enrollment Deposit Transfer Enrollment Info for Transfers Students of color Military affiliated students High-achieving students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Admissions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Info For Alumni Volunteers KU alumni can help recruit future Jayhawks by volunteering with our HAWK program (Helpful Alumni Working for KU). What do HAWKs do? HAWKs connect with future Jayhawks in the following ways: Attend college fairs. Prospective students attend college fairs, usually held in September and October, to learn about their college choices. At the fair, HAWKs share basic information about KU and answer general questions. We will provide KU materials such as brochures and table decor in addition to more detailed instructions. Attend recruitment events. We host many evening events for future Jayhawks throughout the year, both in Kansas and around the country. HAWKs can host events, assist with check-in, distribute information, mingle with guests, and talk about their KU experience. As events are scheduled, we will email HAWKs who live nearby to ask for volunteers. Participate in postcard campaigns. The easiest way HAWKs can help is by writing postcards to 10-15 students in your area. We'll provide blank postcards, postage, and a list of students. How much time does it take to be a HAWK? HAWKS may spend as a little as one to two hours per year up to a few hours every couple of months. The level of time commitment is up to you. When you sign up, let us know the activities you're most interested in. Sign up for the Hawk Program Contact us KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 adm@ku.edu 785-864-3911 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Staff Admissions Reps Graduate admissions International admissions Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.