Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site International First-Year Applicants “I affirm Yale’s steadfast commitment to our international students and scholars; they are vital to the university community…By bringing the most talented and promising students and scholars to campus, we foster new discoveries and advance our mission of improving the world today and for future generations.” —Peter Salovey, Yale University President Yale is proud of the rich diversity of its student body and seeks to attract the most compelling secondary school students from around the world. The interests, perspectives, and lived experiences of students from international backgrounds are integral components of Yale’s undergraduate community. Applications from students schooled abroad are evaluated in the same contextual and whole-person admissions process as domestic applicants. Students applying from outside the US follow essentially the same procedure and use the same application forms as students applying from US high schools. For additional details regarding Yale’s application process please review Applying to Yale as a First-Year International Applicant and Application Instructions & Required Application Components for First-Year Applicants . Please note that if your application materials include any documents that are not in English, you must provide us with an official English translation in addition to the original documents. Yale is strongly committed to equality of opportunity. We extend our need-blind admissions policy to international students so that the Yale undergraduate experience will be accessible to all candidates regardless of their financial situation. Yale’s financial aid policies for foreign citizens are exactly the same as those for U.S. citizens. Your application for financial aid will not affect the admissions committee’s decisions and, if you are admitted, Yale will meet 100 percent of your demonstrated financial need with a combination of tuition grants and term-time employment. International financial aid forms are available on the Financial Aid website. In This Section International First-Year Applicants Applying to Yale as an International Student International Applicant FAQs A Note on Yale Events Related Links Application Instructions & Components What Yale Looks For Profile of the Class (PDF) Yale Facts Office of International Students and Scholars Office of International Affairs Transfer Program EducationUSA Advising Centers Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved