Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Undergraduate Admissions Admissions right arrow down arrow Information for... right arrow down arrow High School Students right arrow down arrow Application Information right arrow down arrow Self-Reported Academic Record (SRAR) Unofficial Transcripts Test-Optional Admission Decision Timeline FAQs Preparing for College right arrow down arrow College Prep Coursework Advanced Credit Transfer Students right arrow down arrow Application Information FAQs Transfer Credit and Advising International Students right arrow down arrow Application Requirements right arrow down arrow First-Year Transfer School Transcript Requirements English Exemptions Math Placement Test (MPT) A-level and IB Admission Conditional Admission Scholarships & Tuition right arrow down arrow Scholarships Non-UC Scholarship Resources Accelerated College English (ACE) Program Virtual Events Admitted Student Next Steps Ace Admitted Students right arrow down arrow First-Year Students Transfer Students New Student Accounts Confirm Your Admission Parents & Families right arrow down arrow Preparing for College FAQs Find Your Student's Representative Parent and Family Programs High School Counselors right arrow down arrow Information for Counselors FAQs Counselor Portal (Slate.org) Accessibility Resources for Incoming Students Campus Resources Multicultural Students right arrow down arrow Admissions and Financial Aid Information Multicultural Student Events Campus Support Offices and Services Military & Veteran Students High-Achieving Students First-Generation College Students Visit Campus right arrow down arrow In-Person Campus Tour right arrow down arrow Visitor Guidelines Campus Parking and Walking Directions Group Visit Self-Guided Visit Online Swag Shop right arrow down arrow Digital Swag Printable Swag Apply right arrow down arrow Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources right arrow down arrow Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tuition & Aid right arrow down arrow Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnatus Scholarship National Outreach Award Darwin T Turner Scholarship Program Alumni Legacy and Network Scholarships Choose Ohio First NEXT Innovation Scholarship Transfer Student Scholarships right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Pathways Transition Student Scholarships Reciprocity and Metro Rate Student Financial Aid Office Tuition Guarantee right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Request Information Admissions Representatives right arrow down arrow Out of State Representatives Social Media Admissions » Apply » Tips and Resources Set Navigation title in component Applications Confirm Your Admission Application Information Applicant Status Page Deadlines Tips and Resources Process and Timeline Writing Prompts Regional Campuses Tips and Resources One of our roles as admissions professionals is to help you through the application process. Use this page as a resource when you are completing your University of Cincinnati application and determining which institution will be the best fit for you! University of Cincinnati Admission Decision Process and Timeline If you are wondering how we review applications, this page will offer a comprehensive list of review considerations as well as a timeline for first-year main campus decision releases. First-year Application Writing Prompts Because of our holistic review process, admissions staff at the University of Cincinnati use the essay and personal statement responses within a student's application to better understand what makes a student unique. View these writing prompts before the application becomes available to begin thinking about how best to showcase your talents and special characteristics. Tips from the Admissions Counselor's Desk The purpose of the admission and review process is to identify students who have a strong likelihood of being an academic "fit" for the University of Cincinnati. These are students who have proved to be academically successful up to this point in past coursework, who show drive and a willingness to challenge themselves, and who are passionate about leaving their positive mark on the world. Beat the deadlines! It is important to keep track of deadlines that are specific to your application. We are not able to extend application or confirmation deadlines for students but we are here to help students during the process. If you are unsure about your next steps or whether or not there are other parts of the application you need to complete, don't wait until the last minute! Check your status online and stay up to date on your application progress. Choose the right essay prompt for you. You will have several prompts to choose from when completing your Common Application. Remember that there is not a "right" or "wrong" essay to write. We want to read a response that is a reflection of who you are and what you are passionate about. When choosing an essay prompt, do some self-reflection to see which topic would showcase your personality, your skills, or your passions best. Write a great essay. Writing your essay response can be a daunting task but following these few steps below will help you craft an essay that will be a positive addition to the rest of your application Answer the prompt being asked: We see many essays that have clearly been used for other applications and don't answer the prompt the student chose to respond to. When writing your essay, make sure you are answering the question the prompt is asking you. Get help proofing your response: This may seem obvious but you would be surprised how many essays we read that have typos and spelling errors. Make sure you re-read your essay looking for small mistakes you may have made and if you can, have a friend or family member take a look as well. Tell us something we can't find in your application: The essay response is your opportunity to share unique information you haven't already told us somewhere else in your application. Take advantage of this opportunity to tell us something new so we can get a more accurate picture of who you are and why you would be a good fit at the University of Cincinnati. Think about the person reading your essay: Your admissions counselor reads all the essays that come to them from potential applicants. Be thinking about the fact that someone - maybe the person you met at a high school visit or college fair - will be reading this essay. Consider what you would like to share with them and how they may respond to what you write. If you want to make them laugh, make them laugh. If you want to inspire them, inspire them. We appreciate seeing diversity in the types of essays we read because that reflects the individuality of the candidates who apply for admission. Select the best person to write your letter of recommendation. A letter of recommendation is encouraged but not required for first-year applicants. The more you and others can tell us about how wonderful you are, the better! Choose a recommender who can write knowledgeably about your academic talents and abilities. This could be a teacher you have worked closely with, a guidance counselor who has seen you excel, or both. When you approach one of your mentors to request a letter of recommendation, don't be surprised if they ask for your resume or to sit down with you for a few minutes to learn more about you. Take them up on this opportunity so they can be more informed about what you hope to accomplish and how their letter can speak to those goals. Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Admissions University of Cincinnati PO Box 210091 Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top