Skip to main content Undergraduate Admissions Freshman Transfer Postbaccalaureate Contact All of UW Calendar Directories Libraries Maps UW Today UW Bothell UW Tacoma Get Social UW Social Media University of Washington OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS Quick Links Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour How to apply Apply Menu Academics Majors Research Study Abroad Honors Careers Apply Freshman Running Start Transfer Postbaccalaureate Military Parents & Families Visit Tours and information sessions Events On demand videos COVID-19 FAQs Seattle Costs & Financial Aid Cost of attendance Applying for aid Scholarships Husky Promise Student life Housing & dining Seattle Resources Contact Join the email list Find your counselor For high school counselors Connect Virtual Tour Home Office of Admissions Apply Freshman How to apply Freshman Home Freshman How to apply Application fee English proficiency Test scores Writing section Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Alternatives to the English requirement Completing Art A Level & AS Level exams Advanced Placement (AP) International Baccalaureate (IB) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Freshman guidelines for special admission & appeal How to apply Follow this checklist to make sure you have everything you need to submit a complete application for admission. Complete the application Submit essay responses Pay the application fee Send test scores? Send transcripts? Apply now Make sure you also know what’s not considered. Complete the application The freshman application available September 1 each year. The application includes self-reporting your academic history, two essays, demographic information and your intended first-choice and second-choice major. If you plan to apply to the Honors Program, you’ll find the Honors application within the general UW application. Self-report your coursework and complete CADRs All freshman applicants will self-report their coursework on the application. A minimum level of preparation in six subject areas must be met for admission. Learn more about satisfying CADRs. Choose your program If your first-choice major participates in Direct to Major or Direct to College admission, be sure to select it as your requested first choice to automatically be considered. Second-choice majors are not considered for direct admission programs with one exception. Read more on the admission to majors page. Submit essay responses The writing section is a required and important part of your application. Learn more about the essays, including prompts and word count. Additional information about yourself or your circumstances Maximum length: 200 words You are not required to write anything in this section, but you may include additional information here if something has particular significance to you. For example, you may use this space if: You have experienced personal hardships in attaining your education Your activities have been limited because of work or family obligations You have experienced unusual limitations or opportunities unique to the schools you attended Pay the application fee U.S. freshman students The application fee is nonrefundable and must be submitted each time you apply for admission. It cannot be transferred to another quarter, campus of the UW or to another student. Application fee: $80 Fee waivers available Spring: freshman applications not accepted Learn more about the application fee. International freshman students The application fee is nonrefundable, and must be submitted each time you apply for admission. It cannot be transferred to another quarter, campus of the UW or to another student. Application fee: $90 Fee waivers not available Winter/Spring: international freshman applications not accepted Learn more about the application fee. Send test scores? The UW no longer requires SAT or ACT scores. Students who have taken the exams are welcome to send their scores, however, there is absolutely no advantage or disadvantage in doing so. Learn more about SAT/ACT scores. International freshman students — English proficiency International students must submit English proficiency test scores that meet the minimum requirement for admission. Learn more about English proficiency. Send transcripts? U.S. schools and international schools that follow a U.S. style curriculum Do not send high school or college transcripts unless you receive a request from the Office of Admissions. The application asks you to provide a detailed account of your academic coursework, and that’s all we need to review your application. Schools outside the U.S. that follow a national/local curriculum Regardless of whether you are applying as a U.S. or international student, if you have attended a school outside of the U.S. that follows a national compulsory curriculum, you are required to upload a scanned, unofficial copy of your transcript for grade levels 9 and higher as part of your application. Do not mail high school transcripts or mid-year school reports to the Office of Admissions. Apply now The autumn 2022 application is closed. Things we do not consider No interviews/demonstrated interest The UW does not conduct formal interviews or consider demonstrated interest in the admission decision. No letters of recommendation We ask that you not send letters of recommendation or other supplemental materials such as drawings, CDs, DVDs, books or other portfolio type items. We will learn everything we need to know about you through your essay responses and academic history. Home Freshman How to apply Application fee English proficiency Test scores Writing section Holistic review Freshmen by the numbers College Academic Distribution Requirement (CADRs) Alternatives to the English requirement Completing Art A Level & AS Level exams Advanced Placement (AP) International Baccalaureate (IB) Freshman homeschool applicants I applied. Now what? Freshman guidelines for special admission & appeal Resources What is my application type WA CC Equivalency Guide Disability resources Freshman viewbook – interactive version Freshman viewbook – pdf Transfer viewbook Deadlines September 1: Freshman autumn application opens November 15: Freshman autumn application deadline March 1-15: Freshman autumn notification period University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us UW NetID Equal Opportunity & Reasonable Accommodation Campus Safety Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA