Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Summer Series Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series This summer, the Office of Admissions will partner with Dartmouth faculty to produce several Academic Summer Series, each offering prospective students a chance to learn about the many ways that Dartmouth students shape their education, in and out of the classroom. Each Academic Summer Series will consist of weekly webinars that highlight Dartmouth's excellence in teaching and unparalleled opportunities for students in specific areas of study. Check back periodically for updated series and session descriptions as themes, speakers, and content are finalized. Sign up to be notified when registration for the 2022 Summer Series opens. Video of Scholars Who Love To Teach Featured on our Blog A Letter to Freshman Year With freshman year coming to a close, I wrote a Thank You note to one of the best years! Read More Caroline York 2025 Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Freshman Year: A Retrospective A look back at my first year at Dartmouth! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 Taking my Professor to Lunch! Here's a reflection on my experience taking my computer science professor out for a free meal paid for by the school! Read More Jack Heaphy 2024 Art Classes at Dartmouth Here are the courses my friends and I have taken to fulfill the distributive requirement for art. Read More Eda Naz Gokdemir 2025 Reflection: Spring Term Week 8 I am writing this blog post as I enter week 9 of my spring term. The weather is so sunny, refreshing, and awesome (it reminds me a lot of the weather in California). I am dedicating this post as a reflection on my week 8. Read More Toni Fabian 2025 Wait, You're Not Taking Classes? This term, I am doing a research fellowship through the Leslie Center for Humanities! Read More Tulio Huggins 2023 Advice from a Dartmouth '25 Now, I am wrapping up my first year at Dartmouth. After reflecting on my experience thus far, I want to offer some advice to prospective and admitted students. Read More Toni Fabian 2025 Transitioning into the "Why Not?" Mindset I'm nearing the end of my first year of college and I've gained some perspective on my mentality and how Dartmouth has sculpted my mindset. Read More Gavin Fry 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback