Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Admissions Main Navigation TRANSCRIPTS Show Extended High School Transcripts College Transcripts RESIDENCY APPEALS OUTREACH & RECRUITMENT FINANCIAL AID ORIENTATION CONTACT US Welcome Prospective Students! Cal State Fullerton is a top-five university in the West — a diverse and welcoming campus located in beautiful, sunny Orange County. Our caring faculty and staff are committed to helping you achieve success on campus and after graduation. And with a vibrant campus culture and NCAA sports, it’s easy to get involved and make lasting Titan friendships. First-Year Students in high school, with or without college credit; or high school graduates who have not attended college. Transfer Students who have completed a minimum of 60 semester/90 quarter transferrable units at a 4-year or community college. International International students are non-resident students who require an F-1, J-1 or other non-immigrant visa to study in the U.S. Graduate Students who have earned a Bachelors degree and interested in a Masters degree, a Credential or a Doctorate of Education. who could you be? CSUF offers 109 degree programs - 55 undergraduate and 54 graduate programs Explore Degrees grab life by the tusks! Pursue your passions through the hundreds of involvement activities on campus Student Life Already Applied? Check Your Application Status Interested in Becoming a titan? Fill out this form and we will send you information This site is maintained by Office of Admissions. Last Published 4/14/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact arwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.