Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Corvallis Experience Oregon State Corvallis In-Person Tours Live Virtual Tours and Events Campus Events Calendar Travelling to Corvallis One of America's Great Small Towns Location is one of the most important factors affecting your decision to attend Oregon State. Corvallis is consistently ranked among the top 10 college towns in the nation and is known for innovation, education, entertainment, sustainability, and overall livability. Corvallis embodies the spirit of the Northwest, with beautiful landscapes, friendly citizens, and an outstanding quality of life. We love it here. We think you will too. You’ll be making Corvallis your home for the next four years. There is a vibrant downtown with restaurants, unique shops and galleries, theaters, and a twice-weekly farmers’ market. Get outside on hiking trails, forests, and rivers. The spectacular Oregon Coast is about an hour away, or head in the opposite direction to find yourself in the mountains of the Cascade Range. And all the excitement of Portland is just 90 miles away. Safe Farmers Insurance Group has repeatedly ranked Corvallis very high for being most secure, taking into consideration crime statistics, extreme weather, risk of natural disasters, housing depreciation, foreclosures, air quality, life expectancy and job loss numbers. Smart Forbes called Corvallis the fifth smartest city in 2008, and it's no wonder with Oregon State University having been here for more than 150 years. It also ranked the 17th best small place for business and careers in 2020. We are also proud to have Hewlett-Packard and Samaritan Health Systems call Corvallis home. Green Our community values sustainable and environmentally responsible choices, whether it be how we power our university, what we put in our bodies, or how we choose to commute. We are committed to keeping Oregon green and being a leader for other communities to learn from. History and Community Corvallis is located within the traditional homelands of the Mary's River or Ampinefu Band of Kalapuya. The city is about 50 miles northwest of Eugene, 90 miles south of Portland, and has a population of about 58,000. Small, local businesses surround the Oregon State campus, and major national retail stores are only a short drive away. No. 1 Safest College (ADT Security Systems, 2018) No. 2 Friendliest College Town in America (Great College Deals, 2016) No. 3 Top 100 Best Places to Live (Livability, 2018) No. 17 Best Small Place for Business and Careers (Forbes, 2020) No. 5 Most Beautiful College Town in America (Travelers Today, 2017) No. 4 Best College Town in America (Forbes, 2014) corvallis-visitor-map-1650x1080.png Downtown and the Valley Not only does Corvallis have a bustling downtown, but it is also in the heart of the Willamette Valley. In late January, you can visit the Oregon Truffle Festival in Eugene. There are also dozens of wineries to visit within a short drive during summer and fall. If you prefer the water, an hour drive to the west will take you to the spectacular Oregon coast. Learn more about local places to eat, shop, or upcoming events at VisitCorvallis.com. Getting Around Town Corvallis is one of only a handful of communities nationwide rated Gold for bicycle friendliness by the League of American Bicyclists. Corvallis also has one of the few fareless transit systems in the United States, and a free university shuttle operates three routes around campus. ZipCar rentals are available on campus, and Pedal Corvallis offers a bike-sharing service for your convenience. Visit Corvallis Website City of Corvallis (GOV) Corvallis Events Volunteering Opportunities Community Resources We know that relocating to Corvallis is sometimes more than a simple move. Many students come with partners and families. Corvallis has always been a family-friendly town, and its many resources are among the reasons it is consistently ranked one of the top small towns in the United States. Childcare Centers Neighborhood Services Corvallis School District Corvallis Parks Parks and Recreation Sports Leagues and Classes Good Samaritan Regional Medical Center OSU in Portland (Video) OSU in the Cascades (Video) Visiting Bend OSU on the Coast (Video) Enjoying the Outdoors There are many outdoor activities in the western Oregon region and due to the temperate climate, outdoor activities are possible most of the year. Oregon is home to 13 national forests, 21 national wildlife refuges, and 361 state parks, as well as national scenic areas and national grasslands. The Pacific Ocean is a mere hour’s drive away with miles of scenic coastline dotted with charming seaside towns offering numerous attractions, in addition to public beaches, tidepools, surfing, shellfishing, and seafood. McDonald and Dunn Research Forests (North of Corvallis) Siuslaw National Forest Willamette National Forest Crater Lake National Park Mt. Hood National Forest Marys Peak, the highest point of the Oregon Coast Range, is about an hour west of Corvallis. Given good weather, you can see both the Willamette Valley and the Pacific Ocean from the peak. (Source: Visit Corvallis Video) Photo Credits Decaseconds, CC BY-NC 2.0 Loren Kerns, CC BY 2.0 Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram