Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Medical School Admissions Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Search Medical School Admissions Interview The interview process provides applicants with an up-close look at The Warren Alpert Medical School. Breadcrumb Home Apply Sub Navigation In This Section Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Interview The interview process provides applicants with an up-close look at The Warren Alpert Medical School. Interview Process What to Expect: Interview day includes a tour, lunch with current students, and interviews with members of the Admissions Committee. For the 2022 application cycle all interviews will be conducted virtually. Interview days are held every Thursday and most Fridays, from mid-September through February. Applicants will be invited by email to schedule interviews on selected dates and are expected to schedule their interview date online as soon as the invitation is received. All applicants will be notified by March whether or not they will be invited to interview. If selected for an interview, your interview day at Alpert Medical School will include the following: a group session focusing on the admissions process, financial aid, and an overview of the school, including a virtual tour of the building; a session with current medical students; and two half-hour, individual meetings with students, faculty, and/or administrative staff who serve as voting members of the MD Admissions Committee. Interviewees to the combined MD-ScM Program will interview on the same days as those applying only to the Regular MD Program and must qualify for the Regular MD Program first. Decisions for the MD-ScM Program are made in March; see our FAQ section for more information. Frequently Asked Questions Applicants invited to interview for the MD/PhD program are scheduled to interview on two consecutive days. See the MD/PhD section for more information. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About the Medical School Curriculum Degree Programs Student Stories After Alpert Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Tour Apply Application Process Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Routes of Admission AMCAS/MCAT Secondary Application Requirements Interview Decision Process Virtual Tour FAQ Life at Brown Student Life Life in Providence Class Profile Service Virtual Tour Diversity Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Interview Open details for Interview Bookmark this Page