Skip to main content Open Accesibility Tools UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION Apply Contact FAQ Admitted Learn About USC Unique Learning Opportunities Faculty Prepare for USC Cost and Financial Aid Live Residential Life Our Campus Los Angeles Belong Our Community Participate The Trojan Family Student Stories Admission Volunteers Social Media Feeds Meet Us Discover USC Virtual Tours and Programs On-Campus Tours Admission Counselors Student Ambassadors For Counselors USC Digital Library Apply What We Look For Dates and Deadlines First-Year Students Transfer Students International Students Scholarships Immigration and DACA Status Admitted Students Search: Close Form 2,000 USC undergraduates are studying overseas at any given time. LEARN MORE 23% of our Class of 2025 is first-generation college students. FIND YOUR PLACE Tour the USC campus wherever you are. Virtual Tour Our students come from 135 countries around the world. THE USC COMMUNITY Engage with world-class faculty every day. OUR FACULTY One of the most diverse & dynamic student populations in the U.S. DISCOVER HOW YOU BELONG Meet Us Check out our various introductions to USC. These programs are designed to introduce you to our school, our application and admission process, financial aid, and campus life. HOW TO MEET US Learn Explore, experience, discover. USC seeks — and attracts— talented students from around the world who want to pursue their studies across traditional disciplines, explore the world and challenge the status quo. Surpass Boundaries Live Your home away from home. Most USC undergraduates live on or near campus, taking part in our world-class residential programs. Your years at USC will be enriched by your fellow residents, and you will make friendships that will last a lifetime. SEE FOR YOURSELF Belong Find your niche. USC comprises one of the most diverse undergraduate populations of any top-ranked university in the U.S. With more than 1,000 student organizations, USC provides numerous ways to get involved and find your place within the Trojan Family. A PLACE FOR YOU Are you ready? Apply now LEARN MORE Life in Los Angeles A vibrant campus in a world-class city. As a USC student, you will experience life in a thriving cosmopolitan center that stands at the crossroads of the Pacific Rim and Latin America. Explore Los Angeles. About USC The possibilities are endless. At USC, students thrive in an interdisciplinary, learner-centered environment that prepares them to become global thinkers and innovative leaders in their fields. Take a look at our programs. The USC Community A place for you. Join one of the most diverse and dynamic student populations in the U.S., representing all 50 states and 135 countries around the world. Explore the many ways to belong in our community. Meet Our Counselors Remember, there’s a person on the other end of your application; we’re just trying to get to know you. Use the essay of the application as a snapshot of who you are. Choose a major that you are passionate about and want to pursue. Your top choice may end up being a school you never expected. Relax – there is more than one perfect school. Do your very best in the toughest classes you can handle. Feed Trojan Voices “USC has given me the opportunity to discover more about interdisciplinary research and innovation — and how truly powerful collaboration across different fields can be.” — Eric Deng. Fremont, California EXPLORE MORE Feed Trojan Voices ”Though USC is home to thousands of undergraduate and graduate students, it’s amazing how personalized your experience will be at USC. You’re definitely more than a just a number.” — Julia Lawler. Rancho Palos Verdes, California EXPLORE MORE Feed Trojan Voices ”The Trojan family is unique because it is a group who will rally together to support the university in whatever it may need to ensure its success for many more years to come.” —Cassidy Doyle. Lake Havasu City, Arizona EXPLORE MORE Admission Decision Timeline for Transfer Applicants Admission decisions or a request for more information, such as spring-term grades, will be available online by May 31. Admission letters and certificates will be mailed following the online release of admission decisions, but please note these may be delayed. Latest Tweet The Office of Admission will be closed on Monday, May 30 for Memorial Day. We will reopen on Tuesday, May 31. For m… https://t.co/30RCxIwXOK @USCAdmission May 30 BLOG Undergraduate Admission University Park Campus Los Angeles, CA 90089-0911 (213) 740-1111 © 2022 University of Southern California Privacy Notice of Non-Discrimination Annual Security & Fire Safety Prospective Student Notification 2021. The University of Southern California’s Annual Security and Fire Safety Reports (ASR) for the past three years are available online at: https://dps.usc.edu/alerts/annual-report/. The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report includes Clery Act crime and fire statistics for the preceding three years for locations owned and or controlled by USC, the required policy disclosure statements and other important safety related information. A paper copy of the ASR is available on request made to Department of Public Safety Records by calling (213) 740-6000, by email to DPSRecords@dps.usc.edu or in person at DPS at 3667 South McClintock Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90089.