Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Slides Skip to carousel player controls to pause, play, and advance slides. Videos do not contain audio. Princeton shield Princeton shield Princeton shield Princeton shield Academics “The enthusiasm of the young people has really infected the department in a beautiful way.” Robert Cava, professor of chemistry Students using equipment in a science lab Slider controls Skip to content Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Advising and Mentoring Academics Our curriculum encourages students to explore many disciplines and to develop a deep understanding in one area of concentration. Students apply to Princeton University, not to individual departments, programs or schools. Once enrolled, students may pursue either the Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) or the Bachelor of Science in Engineering (B.S.E.) degree. Within these degree programs, students can choose from among 37 concentrations (computer science offers both A.B. and B.S.E.) and over 50 interdepartmental certificate programs. The A.B. includes concentrations in the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs and the School of Architecture. During their first two years at Princeton, students in the A.B. program are encouraged to explore the curriculum. They are required to complete one or two courses in each of seven general areas: epistemology and cognition, ethical thought and moral values, historical analysis, literature and the arts, quantitative reasoning, laboratory science and technology, and social analysis. All A.B. students must demonstrate proficiency in English composition through a one-semester writing seminar. They also must become proficient in a another language. Princeton offers courses in more than 18 different languages. In the spring of their sophomore year, students choose a major to pursue in their junior and senior years. The B.S.E. is granted by the School of Engineering and Applied Science. Approximately 25 percent of each class is enrolled in the B.S.E. program. At the end of their first year, engineers choose to concentrate in one of the six engineering departments. In their first two years, students in the engineering program fulfill requirements in mathematics, physics, chemistry and computer science, as well as taking a freshman writing seminar. Engineering at Princeton is taught within the context of a liberal arts approach to education. Engineering students are required to complete at least seven Princeton courses in the humanities and social sciences. Because engineering disciplines evolve and change, much of the teaching of engineering and applied science at Princeton is directed toward mastering fundamental principles: the why and not just the how to. Whether they are in the A.B. program or the B.S.E. program, during their junior and senior years all students conduct independent research in their home department, culminating in the senior thesis, working one-on-one with a faculty mentor. Some students conduct their research in the library or the lab. Others travel to do field research or undertake a creative project such as a novel or a series of paintings. The freshman seminars and the precept system are two defining components of a Princeton education. Limited to 15 students and led by some of our most distinguished professors, approximately 70 freshman seminars are offered yearly, each hosted in one of our six residential colleges. Most lecture courses at Princeton include a precept, a small discussion group that meets weekly to further explore the topics from a course’s lectures and readings. In precepts, students are encouraged to voice their views and challenge each other to look at issues and ideas from new perspectives. The student to faculty ratio at Princeton is 5:1. From freshman seminars to senior theses, faculty are deeply engaged in undergraduate teaching, and they are readily available to students outside the classroom for individual conferences and informal conversations. Faculty Profile Eddie S. Glaude Jr. African American Studies and Religion Learn More Full content of /academics/faculty-profiles/eddie-s-glaude-jr Undergraduate Blog Professors Who Go Above & Beyond By Mia Salas Learn More Full content of /blogs/professors-who-go-above-beyond Faculty Profile Naomi Ehrich Leonard Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Learn More Full content of /academics/faculty-profiles/naomi-ehrich-leonard Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746