Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Afford > Accepting Awards and Aid Accepting Your Awards In order to receive funding (including scholarships and other financial aid) administered by the university, you must accept it. To accept your awards, do the following: Access the FAN Your Financial Aid Notification (FAN) is just what it sounds like. You’ll receive word in CASH when it’s ready. Report other funding The FAN allows you to report other funding and resources you expect to receive—including exemptions, waivers and private scholarships—as well as changes in enrollment. Once you report, you’ll typically receive an updated FAN, as additional resources affect your total eligibility for financial aid. More Information What to Report What to Report Students who expect to receive additional funding and/or resources should report them to the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid as early as possible, since they must be taken into account when we award financial aid. Although you can send the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid notice of additional funding and resources at any time—and should do so early to avoid delays in the release of your financial aid—it is appropriate to report via your FAN. Graduate students are required to report fellowships and student employment to the Office of Financial Aid, as they, too, may affect the amount of financial aid offered. Complete additional requirements Even after you’ve accessed your FAN and accepted or declined awards offered there, you should continue to monitor CASH. Certain additional requirements (such as signing up for direct deposit) may delay the release of your financial aid if left incomplete. Release of Aid Aid funds are typically released no earlier than 10 days prior to the first class day of each semester. Upon release, funds are first applied to university debts such as tuition and housing. After debts are paid, any excess aid takes 2-3 business days to appear in the designated bank account via direct deposit. Paper checks are typically received by the student 7-8 days after university debts are paid. Questions? Contact Texas One Stop. Accessing Your FAN You are required to access your Financial Aid Notification within 21 days. (Newly admitted freshmen have until May 1.) Failure to do so could result in cancellation of your financial aid offer, which may not be reversible. Next: Back to Afford Go to Scholarships & Fellowships Financial Aid Accepting Awards and Aid admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022