Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Brandon Mioduszewski Class of 2025 back Click to Close Bio What's up! My name is Brandon and I'm a '25 from a small town on the outskirts of Chicago. I am driven by intercultural communication; I am passionate about Middle Eastern culture, politics, history, and languages, and a career as a researcher is on my mind. I love vexillology (the study of flags!), anti-pop, spicy foods, streetwear, and the color yellow. Please enjoy these snapshots of my life in Hanover! Academic Program Middle Eastern Studies Favorite Thing Right Now Grape powerade Hometown Franklin Park, Illinois Pronouns he/him About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines Brandon Mioduszewski back Click to Close Brandon's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallHanover, New Hampshire Favorite Class: MES 012: Politics of Israel and Palestine This was definitely my favorite class of fall term—the readings were heavy, but they all felt incredibly relevant to the coursework. For each class, we read both Jewish and Arab perspectives throughout history. Moreover, Professor Avishai has a vast network of connections with important members of Israeli government, and even figures who we read about in the history books (including former prime ministers!). Overall, that class was a lot of work but very effective in helping me understand the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. WinterHanover, New Hampshire Favorite Class: MES 1: Intro to Middle Eastern Studies Professor Smolin's lectures were always something for me to look forward to. In this intro class, a wide variety of subjects regarding the Arab world were covered. Topics such as culture, Islam, literature, poetry, politics, and history were covered from the pre-Islamic period to the more recent Arab Spring. The readings were fascinating, and the professor also incorporated a wide variety of video resources to accompany the readings. I loved this class! Freshman Year: A Retrospective A look back at my first year at Dartmouth! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/29/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts middle eastern studies; dartmouth; freshman year Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Green Key, 22S In this post, I share my first experience with Green Key at Dartmouth Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/23/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts green key; going out; parties Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter The Home Stretch! As I begin week 8, the end of the term is right around the corner! In this post, I share some information about finals, papers, and my future plans! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/15/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts finals; papers; assignments Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Arab-American Poetry Night! Read about my experience with the Dartmouth Palestine Solidarity Coalition, and my broader thoughts on joining student groups on campus! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/7/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts clubs; extracurriculars; politics Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Teacher Appreciation Week! For teacher appreciation week, I'd like to share some professors who have had a massive impact on me during my freshman year at Dartmouth! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 05/2/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts professor; classes Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Classes of 22S! As I've done in previous terms, I'd like to share my experience with the courses I am taking so far in the spring! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/25/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts Academics; Classes; Choice Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Middle Eastern Voices at Dartmouth My freshman year research project "Middle Eastern Voices at Dartmouth" has released on Spotify and Apple Music! For those interested in research and creative projects at Dartmouth, I will share my process and experience. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/16/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts middle eastern studies; research; creativity Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter A Day of 22S! A day in my life during the beginning of this spring term! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/14/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts A Day in the Life; student life; campus life; Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Looking Ahead to Spring Term! Here's some information on how my spring break went, and how I plan to spend the spring term! Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 04/5/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts spring; spring term; future plans; Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Pursuing Your Academic Interests Read about my experiences with all the academic resources available on campus. Read More Click to show post info Post Information Posted 01/29/2022 at 3:09 PMAll Text Posts academics Classes Choice Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Pages 1 2 3 next last Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback