Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Admissions Home Academics & Majors Majors & Minors Colleges Research Study Abroad Honors College Requirements & Applications Application Process Find Your Requirements First-Year Student Requirements Assured Admission Transfer Requirements Transfer Your Credits AP, IB & CLEP Credit Associate’s Degrees The Washington 45 Returning Non-Degree Post Bachelor’s Online Graduate International Students AP, IB, CLEP, Running Start & Cambridge Credits AP Credit Chart IB Credit Chart CLEP Credit Chart Cambridge Credit Chart Deadlines Veterans & Military Undocumented Students myWSU Student Portal Submitting Transcripts Application Index Scholarships Washington Residents Non-Washington Residents Scholarship Awards WUE and Cougar Award Cougar Award for Transfers (WUE) Cougar Commitment Crimson Transfer Award Distinguished University Achievement Award Glenn Terrell Presidential Award Regents Scholars Program How the Process Works Scholarship Winners University Achievement Award Residency Requirements International Students Departmental Scholarships National Merit Scholarship Financial Aid & Costs Tuition & Fees Federal and State Financial Aid WSU Financial Aid Estimator Visit and Explore Future Students Admitted Students Videos Transfer Students Travel Guide Events by Season Visit Events Experience WSU Why Attend Awards Schedule Workshops Showcases FAQ Fall Preview Why Attend Schedule Future Cougars of Distinction Why Attend Eligibility Awards Schedule Workshops FAQ Preview for Juniors Why Attend Schedule Campus Tours Signup Schedules Self-Guided Tours Game Day Tours Why Attend Schedule Group Visits Why Attend Signup FAQ Student Life Student Resources Student Experience Greek Life Involvement Community Life Housing Housing Options First-Year Housing Upperclassmen Housing Apartments & Residence Halls Off Campus Housing Admitted Student Next Steps Parent/Family Resources Counselor Resources Contact Contact a Counselor Request Info Chat with Admissions Ask a Student FAQ facebook twitter instagram myWSU Access Policies © Admissions Home #FutureCoug WSU Admissions Washington State University Find Your Extraordinary Dates & Deadlines Confirm Your Admission Visit Campus Apply Now Notify me when the 2023 application opens The Cougar Advantage WSU Cougs are creators, innovators, builders, and authors. We are motivators, self starters, and scholars. We look to the stars while staying down-to-earth. Above all else, we live our lives and pursue our studies with purpose. We are determined to change the world, and we’re not afraid to roll up our sleeves and lead the way. Nationally ranked academic programs Extraordinary student experience Career preparation at an affordable price WSU system-wide will require proof of COVID-19 vaccination for the 2022 academic year for all students engaging in activities at a WSU campus or location. For more information, including exemptions, please visit Washington State University. The Cougar Advantage WSU Cougs are creators, innovators, builders, and authors. We are motivators, self starters, and scholars. We look to the stars while staying down-to-earth. Above all else, we live our lives and pursue our studies with purpose. We are determined to change the world, and we’re not afraid to roll up our sleeves and lead the way. We are Makers. Doers. Cougars. Nationally ranked academic programs Extraordinary student experience Career preparation at an affordable price Explore 200+ fields of study Business to organic agriculture. Communication to neuroscience. Courses taught by renowned professors. Learn why nearly a quarter-million students have pursued future success by earning a WSU degree. by Academic Area Agricultural Sciences Art, Architecture, and Design Biological and Environmental Sciences Business Business Programs Accredited by AACSB Communication Economics Education Engineering and Computer Science Foreign Languages and Cultures Health Sciences History, Literature, and Philosophy Music Physical and Mathematical Sciences Pre-Professional Studies Social Sciences Sport and Fitness by College Carson College of Business College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences College of Arts and Sciences College of Education College of Medical Sciences College of Nursing College of Pharmacy College of Veterinary Medicine Edward R. Murrow College of Communication Honors College Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture Browse Alphabetically A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Go to Majors and Minors Graduate & professional programs Washington State University boasts 120 masters degree, doctoral degree, and professional degree programs, which provide a solid academic foundation from which students can collaborate and partner with world-class faculty to explore and develop ideas to improve our world. We are a top-ranked research institution immersed in new discoveries and solutions that make the world a better place. Locations statewide Pullman Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Everett Online 172 sunny days per year Learn More 560 study abroad programs across all 7 continents Learn More 400+ student clubs (70+ culture-based) Learn More $392 million offered in financial aid & scholarships Learn More Request Info Visit WSU Apply to WSU Chat with Admissions Info Visit Apply Chat Facebook Twitter Instagram Back to top