Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Religious Resources Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Slides Skip to carousel player controls to pause, play, and advance slides. Videos do not contain audio. Princeton shield Princeton shield Princeton shield Princeton shield Diverse Community “Only by including people with a broad range of experiences and perspectives are we able to realize our potential.” Report of the Trustee Ad Hoc Committee on Diversity students meeting in LGBT Center Slider controls Skip to content Campus Life Diverse Community Religious Resources Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Diverse Community Whether in the classroom, dining hall or residential college, you will bring the entirety of yourself, your background and your experience to every interaction. This is the time of your life when you’ll also grow in ways you can’t even imagine. While you value where you came from, your academic and social experience will take you someplace you have never been — intellectually, emotionally and physically. Living and learning in a rich cultural environment will transform your life, as well as the lives of everyone you meet. As Dean of the College Jill Dolan says, “At Princeton, ‘diversity’ is more than a catchphrase. It’s a way of life for those who care about building a global community of citizens who practice caring for one another and the world.” At Princeton, we work hard to ensure that our community is diverse and intellectually stimulating. Differences in race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, religion, geography, gender, sexual orientation, academic and social interests, and political predilections all add to Princeton’s robust and varied student community. Karen Richardson, dean of admission, says, “When students from different backgrounds lend their voices and talents to the academic and social fabric of the campus, every member of the community benefits. It’s what makes Princeton the dynamic, intellectual learning space that it is.” Wherever you go on our campus, you will find others who share your values, heritage and interests, as well as many who, refreshingly, don't. "Princeton University is home to a diverse community of scholars and students who hail from a dazzling variety of backgrounds. The perspectives that all of us bring to campus enrich the University in myriad ways, smashing old stereotypes, provoking new visions of what our world can be, and creating a campus life that is vibrant, colorful and inclusive," says Christopher L. Eisgruber, Princeton University president. When students from different backgrounds lend their voices and talents to the academic and social fabric of the campus, every member of the community benefits. It’s what makes Princeton the dynamic, intellectual learning space that it is. Learn more about our commitment to diversity, the key initiatives and resources that will help to build support and enrich our campus community. Explore our Diverse Community Campus Resources LGBT Center Explore Campus Resources Women*s Center Learn More Tour the Carl A. Fields Center for Equality & Cultural Understanding Play Video: Tour the Carl A. Fields Center for Equality & Cultural Understanding Video of Tour the Carl A. Fields Center with Director Tennille Haynes Religious Resources 19 Chaplaincies Find Your Spiritual Home Full content of http://religiouslife.princeton.edu/ Faculty Profile Miguel A. Centeno Sociology and the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs Learn More Full content of /academics/faculty-profiles/miguel-centeno Undergraduate Blog Why I Came, Why I Chose to Stay Fedjine Mitchelle Victor Learn More News New cultural affinity spaces, training programs part of latest progress on diversity initiatives Read the news story Campus Resources Davis International Center Learn More Full content of http://www.princeton.edu/intlctr/davis-ic-home/ 49% Americans of color Learn More Full content of http://fieldscenter.princeton.edu/student-groups/ Campus Resources Inclusive and Equitable Teaching McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning Learn More 83% of recent seniors graduated debt free Learn More 22% of the Class of 2025 are Pell-eligible students Learn More What is FSI? A eight-week summer immersion program Learn more FSI: Freshman Scholars Institute Play Video: FSI: Freshman Scholars Institute Video of Freshman Scholars Institute 2016 Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746