Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Tour Visit Apply × Close Menu Affordability at TU Apply Apply First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Graduate Applicants Law Applicants Other Students Credit By Exam Financial Aid Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Free Application for Federal Student Aid Visit Campus Visit Campus Academic Webinars Plan Your Individual Visit Preview TU Group Visits University Ambassadors Area Hotels Directions to Campus Maps Explore Tulsa Virtual Tour Special Programs Special Programs Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars Student Life Student Life International Student Services Housing & Dining Student Organizations Campus Recreation Career Services Health Center Student Accessibility New Student Programs Office of Student Affairs Find Your Admission Counselor Request Information Quick Links News Events Calendar Maps Athletics Contact TU Information For... Future Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Veteran Students Undergraduate Students International Students Graduate Students Law Students Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How do I interview for admission? Where is the new student checklist? How do I schedule a visit? What majors are offered? How much does TU cost? How can I transfer to TU? Close Search Link to site home page Office of Admission > TU Special Programs > Leadership TU Leadership TU SPECIAL PROGRAMS Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars APPLY NOW Overview Leadership TU is an education and development program to assist current and emerging leaders understand the role leadership plays in long-term success. It is designed to foster dialogue and build community among past, current and future participants by encouraging engagement in projects facilitating personal/professional growth and community betterment. Program Goals Students completing Leadership TU will achieve the following learning outcomes: Examine multiple attributes of impactful leaders and levels of leadership Consider multiple attributes of effective teams including team formation and dynamics Work collaboratively and purposefully within various teams Communicate confidently and persuasively with other leaders and team members Identify personal values, purpose and mission to guide ongoing personal and professional development Eligibility Open to incoming first year (both freshman and transfer sophomore) students. Grade-point-average and test scores are not considered during the selection process. Application Requirements Submit a completed application for admission to The University of Tulsa by January 15. Submit the online Special Programs Application, with short essays by January 15. Program Structure Leadership is a topic of great interest. Influential leaders, and attributes making them both influential and impactful, are discussed and debated often. In Leadership TU we understand and welcome some discussion and debate. Civil discourse and mutual respect are elements of vibrant communities, and we strongly desire for Leadership TU to be a vibrant community. However, we quickly seek to move beyond words to action. We seek to engage leaders and develop teams to practice leadership, to be better equipped to lead by leading. We practice mutual support from leader to team, team to leader and teammate to teammate. This approach presents abundant growth opportunities for all actively engaged participants. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT