Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Arts and Social Sciences Arts, Humanities, & Social Sciences Lead Creatively Related Majors Download Brochure Apply Now Request Information The world needs thinkers and doers. People with brilliant ideas who act on them. People who can’t wait to solve a problem. People like you. Pursuing an education in the arts, humanities and social sciences will spark your creativity while building critical-thinking, communication and life skills. It’s also an excellent career strategy because employers look for people with well-rounded academic backgrounds and hands-on learning experience. The liberal arts curriculum at Oregon State University will develop and improve your skills, whether your talents lie in design, drawing, writing, organization, relationship-building or performance. Learn how to harness your craft, to be a leader, to improve your community. Oregon State offers strong academic programs taught by field-leading professors who are as committed to your success as you are. Get ready for what’s next. A successful career in the arts and social sciences starts with a well-balanced college-preparatory curriculum. Classes in English and speech will sharpen your writing and communication abilities, and you should also take classes to develop fundamental computer skills. If you’re interested in a field that involves working with and helping people, take advantage of extracurricular and volunteer activities to develop your social and leadership skills during your high school career. Your First Year During your first year at Oregon State, you’ll build the foundation for a well-rounded education. You’ll develop your critical thinking, communication and problem-solving skills through courses from Oregon State’s Baccalaureate Core — the physical and biological sciences, mathematics, writing, fitness, cultural diversity and first-year orientation — along with some beginning courses in your particular area of interest. To make sure you get off to a good start and stay on course for graduation, you should meet with an advisor as you plan your first-year program — and at regular intervals after that Connect with us and we'll send you more information Loading... 2col-paints-900x507.jpg Give your career a head start. Learning by doing is one of the best ways to prepare for a career, and internships are increasingly important for landing a great job after college. You might work at the Oregon Legislature, state and local government agencies, law firms, newspapers, radio and television stations, design firms or apparel companies. You might even complete an internship overseas with a variety of international companies. Your professors, department and college, as well as Oregon State Career Development Center, can help you set up an internship. You can choose to take a term or two off from classes, take classes while completing your internship or do one over the summer. Multiple scholarships are available. Be sure to apply. Get some help paying for college with a variety of university-wide and departmental scholarships. Most scholarships are awarded based on information in the Oregon State application, but others require separate applications, such as our OSU ScholarDollars portal. The deadline to apply for university scholarships is Feb. 1. Be sure to check with your college and department on the deadlines for other scholarships. Apply Now. Put yourself out there. Oregon State offers a resource-rich environment that encourages you to combine your studies in health and wellness with opportunities like the Honors College and study abroad programs. You’ll find challenging, unique experiences that support your academic, professional and personal growth — and have fun, too. Research lets you discover and solve. Like internships, research experience can give you an advantage when applying to graduate and professional programs. In most health areas, you’ll have opportunities to make real contributions to faculty and graduate students’ research projects. You may also develop and pursue your own research addressing local, national and international health concerns. Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram