Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quick Access MyUCR Admitted Students First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Cost to Attend About Riverside Publications Videos Get UCR in Your Inbox Contact Us UC Riverside Undergraduate Admissions UNIQUE. COMMITTED. REAL. Search Home Admissions First Year Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR Resources & Support Dates & Deadlines Meet Your Counselor Virtual Events Request Information Transfer Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR Transfer Admission Guarantee Majors Preparation Guide 2022-23 2020-21 2019-20 Resources & Support Dates & Deadlines Meet Your Counselor Schedule An Appointment Virtual Events Request Information Out-of-State Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR Out-of-State First Year Out-of-State Transfer Resources & Support Dates & Deadlines Meet Your Counselor Virtual Events Request Information International Overview Financial Aid, Costs & Fees Applying to UCR International First Year International Transfer Visa & Entry Requirements Dates & Deadlines Resources & Support Meet Your Counselor Virtual Events Request Information Community Engagement Outreach Black Student Experience Chicanx Latinx Student Experience Middle Eastern Student Experience Native American Student Experience Blue, Gold & Black Podcast Veterans & Military Affiliated Former Foster Youth Parents/Guardians Counselors Admitted Students Cost First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Majors I Want to Major In ... Engineering Humanities Sciences Education Business Medicine Public Policy Dates & Deadlines First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Visit Campus Tours Virtual Tours Getting to UC Riverside About Riverside Campus Tours FAQ Events Events at UCR Slice of Life First Year: Virtual Events Transfers: Virtual Events College Fairs Virtual Admission Presentations Slice of Life News Contact Us UCR Home Quick Access MyUCR Admitted Students First Year Transfer Out-of-State International Cost to Attend About Riverside Publications Videos Get UCR in Your Inbox Contact Us Campus Tours Breadcrumb Campus Tours Get to Know UCR There's no better way to get a feel for life at UC Riverside than with a campus tour! Explore UCR's colleges, get to know our campus history and culture, and discover why UCR is home to UNIQUE, COMMITTED, REAL students just like you! Family Tours Come to campus and bring up to three (3) guests! Register for a general campus tour or an information session. Book a reservation Self-Guided Tours Explore UCR at your own pace and bring up to four (4) guests! Register to tell us when you plan to come and then download a map of must-see campus landmarks and fun facts. Register today Group Tours We offer 60-minute student-led group tours to high schools and community colleges that work with prospective students. We can accommodate groups of six (6) to 45 guests. Book a Reservation Take a Virtual Student-Led Campus Tour Join student tour guide, Juan, for a virtual tour of UC Riverside and discover fun facts about academics, facilities, and campus life. Take a Virtual Tour Engineering Explore the labs, lecture halls, and study spaces at the Marlan and Rosemary Bourns College of Engineering (BCOE). Tour BCOE Humanities Take a look inside the buildings that make up the College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences (CHASS). Tour CHASS Sciences Discover the collections, classrooms, and labs of the College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences (CNAS). Tour CNAS Medicine Spend time in the labs, classrooms, and study spaces at the School of Medicine (SOM). Tour SOM Housing See what it’s like to live in a Residence Hall at UCR. Tour Housing Student Life Get a peek at the Highlander experience. Tour Student Life After your tour is complete, see more of what our campus and community have to offer. Campus Dining Whether you need a snack, cup of coffee, or full meal, we’ve got you covered! Get snacks and more from Scotty's. Coffee is served at Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf, Ivan's, and Starbucks. Get a quick bite in the HUB Food Court (with Chronic Tacos, Hibachi-San, and Panda Express), Subway, The Habit, Bytes, or Emerbee's. Enjoy all-you-care-to-eat dining in our residence halls. Visit dining.ucr.edu to see all of our culinary offerings. UCR Library Our libraries are home to many notable collections, including African American, Native American, Latin American, Chinese, and Sikh history and literature; science fiction, fantasy, and horror, manuscripts, comic books, fanzines, correspondence, and photography; as well as local history, agriculture, and medical education. Visit library.ucr.edu to learn more about our collections and upcoming exhibits. UCR Botanic Gardens Our Botanic Gardens cover 40 acres in the foothills of the Box Springs Mountains, just east of the center of campus. Open most days from 8 a.m.–5 p.m., the gardens feature more than 3,500 plant species and thousands of specimens from around the world. Visit gardens.ucr.edu to learn more about the gardens and planning your trip. UCR Athletics UCR is home to 17 men’s and women’s NCAA Division I teams. Catch a game, meet, or match while you’re on campus and cheer on the Highlanders to victory! Visit gohighlanders.com for team schedules and ticket information. UCR Arts Located 10 minutes west of campus in Downtown Riverside, UCR Arts is home to the California Museum of Photography, the Jack and Marilyn Sweeney Art Gallery, and the Barbara and Art Culver Center of the Arts. Visit artsblock.ucr.edu to learn more about special exhibits, the permanent collections, film screenings, and events. Explore Riverside After your tour, spend some time getting to know the vibrant cultural hub and economic powerhouse we call home. Visit admissions.ucr.edu/about-riverside to learn more about everything there is to do in Riverside. Getting to UCR Here's all the information you need about getting to campus for your tour. • UC Riverside is located at 900 University Ave., Riverside, CA 92521. • If driving, check in at the University Kiosk at 141 West Campus Drive for a parking pass (required). • For Group Tours, review and print out these directions to UCR with loading/unloading instructions. Parking is free with a confirmed Campus Tour reservation. Please bring your confirmation email and check in at the Campus Tours Office if you don't have your confirmation email. Regular parking rates will apply. Cash, MasterCard, and Visa are accepted. The Campus Tours Office is located on the first floor of the Student Services Building (right), east of Lot 1. Follow the path from flagpole and pass the Student Success Center on the left. The next building on the left is the Student Services Building, where the Campus Tours Office is located on the first floor. Look for the orange "Campus Tours" sign above the outside-facing front door.. The building will be on your left. Look for the Campus Tours Office sign. Air Ontario International Airport (ONT) is the most convenient air travel choice, located about 20 miles (32 km) northwest of UCR. By car, it takes 20 minutes to get to UCR from ONT in light traffic and up to an hour at rush hour. Bus and shuttle transportation options are also available. John Wayne Orange County Airport (SNA) to is 45 miles (72 km) southwest of UCR. By car, it takes 45 minutes to get to campus from the airport, though that travel time can triple in rush hour traffic. Shuttle options are also available. Long Beach Airport (LGB) is 60 miles (97 km) west of UCR. By car, it takes about an hour in light traffic to get to UCR and up to two-and-a-half hours in heavy traffic. Shuttle options are also available. Palm Springs International Airport (PSP) is 60 miles (97 km) east of UCR. By car, it takes 50 minutes to get to the campus, but that jumps to an hour-and-a-half at rush hour. Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) is about 70 miles (113 km) west of UCR. By car, it takes about an hour-and-15-minutes to get to the campus in light traffic, though that travel time increases to over three hours in the heaviest traffic. Shuttle options are also available. Train Metrolink is the regional rail system linking Riverside County to Los Angeles, Orange, San Bernardino, San Diego, and Ventura counties. UCR is located near the Riverside – Downtown Riverside – Hunter Park/UCR stations, and Riverside Transit Agency (RTA) bus transportation is available from both stations to campus. Amtrak is a national rail system that operates across the United States. The Riverside – Downtown station is accessible to campus via RTA bus. Bus Riverside Transit Agency (RTA) buses connect UCR to the surrounding communities as well as the Riverside — Downtown and Riverside — Hunter Park/UCR train stations. OmniTrans provides bus service from Ontario International Airport (ONT) to campus. Car If you’re driving to UCR, review our driving directions prior to your visit. If needed, car rental facilities are available at all major airports. Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions General Tours FAQ Tours Reservation FAQ Group Tour FAQ Upcoming Events Check out Campus Events for upcoming virtual events, college fairs, and connections with current students and admission counselors. Then join the UCR community for year-round events open to the public, including athletics, extraterrestrial life seminars, career exploration conferences, and more! Contact A Counselor Apply to UCR Get UCR in Your Inbox Visit UCR CONNECT WITH UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS ADMISSIONS First-Year Transfer Out-of-State International Veterans & Military Affiliated Former Foster Youth Parents/Guardians Counselors Community Engagement Outreach Admitted Students COST First-Year Transfer Out-of-State International MAJORS I Want To Major In Engineering Humanities Sciences Education Business Medicine Public Policy DATES/DEADLINES First-Year Transfer Out-of-State International VISIT Campus Tours Virtual Tours Getting to UC Riverside About Riverside Campus Tours FAQ EVENTS Events at UCR Highlander Days First-Year: Virtual Events Transfer: Virtual Events College Fairs Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR CAMPUS TOURS 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-8687 fax: (951) 827-6344 email: tour@ucr.edu questions: admissions.ucr.edu/ask FIND US Related Links Apply to UC Riverside Athletics - Go Highlanders Events Calendar Financial Aid MyUCR - Admissions Portal Support UCR Students Tartan Soul Visit UC Riverside Disclaimer This information is accurate and reliable at time of posting but may change without notice. Please contact Undergraduate Admissions for the most up-to-date information. Learn about our privacy policy. Campus Security and Fire Safety Report The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act) requires UCR (as an institution of higher education receiving federal financial aid) to report specified crime statistics on college campuses and to provide other safety and crime information to all current and prospective students and employees. The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is available on the Chief Compliance Office website. If you would like a paper copy of the Report, you may contact the Clery Coordinator via email at clery@ucr.edu or by phone at (951) 827-6223. Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel