Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home First-Year SSAR First-Year Toggle navigation First-Year Menu Admissions How to Apply Deadlines & Fees What We're Looking For Decisions Cost & Aid Scholarships Academics Accelerated Credit Gap Year Info for Parents Info for Counselors SSAR Self-reported Student Academic Record (SSAR) Frequently Asked Questions Create your SSAR Watch Our SSAR How-To Videos Creating the SSAR What is the Self-reported Student Academic Record (SSAR)? SSAR is a self-reported student academic record that lists all courses and associated grades that have been attempted, or will be attempted, for high school and/or college credit. Since accuracy is critical, you must have a copy of your high school transcript available to use as a reference when you create your SSAR. Be sure to indicate any courses taken through an online school. Who is required to complete the SSAR? All first-year applicants must complete a SSAR, with the following exceptions: Applicants who have not followed an academic curriculum patterned after the U.S. system - must submit official or certified copies of all secondary school records and/or examination results. This includes students who have attended an institution not patterned after the U.S. system for any length of time. All academic records not in English must be accompanied by a certified English translation. In addition, these credentials must be evaluated by a credential evaluation agency. We recommend a member of the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services or International Education Credential Services provided by the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. GED graduates - students must submit their official GED transcript, along with official partial high school transcript(s). Where do I create my SSAR? The SSAR is created at the Self-reported Student Academic Record website. Upon completion of the SSAR, you will be given a SSAR ID Number that must be provided to Florida State to allow us to retrieve your SSAR. You will be asked to provide the SSAR ID Number in Part II (Checklist) of the application for admission or you can provide your SSAR ID Number through your Application Status Check. When do I complete the SSAR? We recommend that you complete the SSAR before submitting your application for admission. Your application for admission will not be reviewed until your application fee, SSAR, and self-reported test scores have been received. Do home-educated students complete the SSAR? Yes, if they have followed an academic curriculum patterned after the traditional U.S. system. If the curriculum followed cannot be represented on the SSAR, we ask that you contact the Office of Admissions at admissions@fsu.edu or call 850.644.6200 for further instruction. What if I have graduated from High School? Yes, you will complete the SSAR. Students that have graduated from high school will list all of their coursework and all final grades on the SSAR. What if I can't find my high school listed on the SSAR website? The SSAR website uses a database of names from College Board which may vary slightly from the everyday name of your school. When searching for your school, try to use variants of the official school name. For example, if you attended T.C. Central High School, enter "Central" in the search box. Make sure you select the correct state. If you still can't find your high school, you should contact the Office of Admissions at admissions@fsu.edu or call 850.644.6200. How do I re-lock my SSAR? To re-lock your Self-reported Student Academic Record (SSAR), press the "Submit" button at the bottom of the "Review/Submit" section of the SSAR website. Once you click the "Submit" button, your SSAR will lock. If you do not re-lock your SSAR, your information will not be sent to Florida State. Does it matter if I attended more than one high school and/or college during my academic career? You should list the high school you are graduating from and all of the appropriate courses regardless of how many different schools you attended. If you have attended multiple schools and the courses and grades are not reflected on your current high school transcript, you must obtain a copy of the transcript(s) from your previous school(s). What will happen if I do not complete the SSAR? All first-year applicants (excluding the exceptions) must complete the SSAR. If you are unable to complete the SSAR, you must contact the Office of Admissions at admissions@fsu.edu or call 850.644.6200. Can my SSAR be used by multiple colleges/universities? Florida State University, the University of Florida, Florida Atlantic University, and Florida Polytechnic University require the SSAR. Once you complete your SSAR, you must check with each institution on how to provide them with access to your data. For Florida State, log in to your Application Status Check and submit your SSAR ID Number. Can I submit the SRAR (self-reported academic record) instead of the SSAR (self-reported student academic record)? If you have started or completed the SRAR for another college, you may import your SRAR data into your SSAR. For instructions on how to do so, please review this step-by-step guide. SSAR Grade Entry How do I enter my grades on the SSAR? The SSAR collects grades on a semester basis. Please refer to the following examples to guide your grade submission. If your high school transcript has: Only semester grades: enter your semester grades as shown on your transcript. Only final grades: enter the final grade twice (first semester and second semester) for yearlong courses (one credit), and once for semester-long courses (1/2 credit). For example, if you earned a grade of B in Algebra I which is a yearlong course (1 credit), enter that grade twice (first semester and second semester). Both semester grades and final grades: use the final grade. For example, if you took Algebra I earning an A in the first semester and a B in the second semester with your final grade being a B, enter a grade of B twice (first semester and second semester). Both trimester grades and final grades: use the final grade. If the course is yearlong, enter the final grade twice. If the course is only for one trimester, enter the grade in either the first or second semester. Block scheduling: you are completing a yearlong course (one credit) in one semester and a semester-long course (1/2 credit) in nine weeks. A one credit course will be entered twice (first semester and second semester), and a 1/2 credit course will be entered once. Dual-enrollment courses: you must self-report all college courses' grades listed on your transcript. If your course is one credit in high school, enter the grade twice (first semester and second semester). If your course is 1/2 credit, enter the grade once. Numerical grades: you must convert to A-F grades using your high school grading scale. Weighted grades: you should report all grades exactly as they are listed on your transcript. You will use the Course Level field on the SSAR to indicate the type of course (e.g., honors, AP, dual enrollment, etc.). If your transcript does not fall into one of the above categories, please email the Office of Admissions at admissions@fsu.edu or call 850.644.6200. Do I need to include high school courses taken while I was in middle school/junior high school? Yes. Every academic course that you have attempted for high school credit while in middle school/junior high school must be listed on the SSAR. How do I enter my college (dual enrollment) courses and grades? You must self-report all college courses' grades listed on your transcript. If your course is one credit in high school, enter the grade twice (first semester and second semester). If your course is 1/2 credit, enter the grade once. How do I enter my grades if my school uses pluses/minuses? Pluses and minuses are not used in the admission review process and cannot be entered in the SSAR. Grades will be reported as A, B, C, D, and F. For example, grades of B+ and B- are treated as a B grade, and should be listed on the SSAR as a B. How do I report my senior coursework? Since we encourage applicants to apply early in their senior year, you should list your courses and enter the grades as "In Progress" if you have not yet earned grades associated with them. Do I report all of the classes taken and grades earned that are reflected on my transcript? All attempted coursework must be listed on the SSAR. If you repeated a course, you must record both attempts. If you withdrew from a class before earning a grade, you must list the course and record the grade as withdrawn. The same is true for courses that you earned a grade of Pass or Fail. What if I repeated or withdrew from one or more of my courses, or I took a course for Pass/Fail? You must list all attempts on your SSAR including repeats and withdrawals. The same is true for courses in which you earned a grade of Pass or Fail. Your SSAR must match exactly what is on your high school transcript. How do I complete the SSAR if I am graduating early? If you are completing high school in three years, then please enter your coursework under 9th grade, 10th grade, and 12th grade for your first, second, and current high school years of courses. Updating the SSAR What if my senior schedule changes? If your schedule changes, you must immediately update your SSAR. To make changes to the SSAR, simply log in to the SSAR website with the email address and password used to create your original SSAR. Additionally, if you are an accepted student considering a senior schedule changes please contact the admissions office before making a schedule change since it may negatively impact your acceptance to the university. What if I am taking courses in the summer? You will record the course and grade in the preceding school year. For example, if you took a course between the 9th and 10th grades, you would enter the course in the 9th grade. Can I change the SSAR once it is completed and I receive my SSAR ID Number? Yes. We want your SSAR to be as accurate as possible. If you have corrections or your schedule changes, we encourage you to update your SSAR. To make changes, log in to the SSAR website with the email address and password used to create your original SSAR. After you have made your updates, you must press the "Submit" button at the bottom of the "Review/Submit" section of the SSAR. For step-by-step instructions on how to update your SSAR, click here. Do I have to submit my first semester grades in the senior year? All students who are offered admission or deferred in our February notification and all applicants who will receive a decision in March are required to update the SSAR with first semester grades. You will log in to the SSAR website with the email address and password used to create your original SSAR and enter your first semester (mid-year) grades. Do I have to submit my final senior grades? All admitted students are required to update the SSAR with their final senior grades. You will log in to the SSAR website with the email address and password used to create your original SSAR. All admitted students who choose to enroll at Florida State are also required to submit final official high school and college dual enrollment transcripts, so that the grades entered on their SSAR can be verified. What if I am unsure about the dual enrollment classes that I will be taking during the second semester of my senior year? Provide the best estimation of the courses you will be taking when completing the SSAR. If your schedule changes, you must update the SSAR. If you are unable to update the SSAR, you must be in contact with the Office of Admissions at admissions@fsu.edu or call 850.644.6200. If the correct information is not listed on your SSAR when we validate your courses and grades from your official high school and college transcripts, your admission is subject to revocation and, if discovered after classes begin, cancellation of registration. When do I send my official high school and college (if dual enrolled) transcripts? Only applicants offered admission who plan to enroll at Florida State are required to submit official high school and college transcripts after graduation. These transcripts will be used to validate the information on the SSAR. Students with inaccurate data on the SSAR may be denied admission to the University, have their admission revoked, or have their registration cancelled if enrolled. Quick Links Seminole Tribe Land Acknowledgement College & Career Planning Tool Career Center Academic Program Guide FSU Highlights Apply Online Visit Us Publications Check Your Application Status Application Changes Form Residency Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Aspire TCC2FSU Program FSU-Panama City Campus The Graduate School Student Veterans Center Office of Accessibility Services Professional Licensure Transfer Student Services Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University.