Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Click to scroll back to the top chevrons up Chase Harvey Class of 2025 back Click to Close Bio Hello! My name is Chase and I am a '25 from South Carolina. I intend on exploring what the field of music can offer (whether that's the cognition of sound or exploring more interactive projects). When I'm not hanging out with friends or doing classwork, you can find me practicing tuba in The Hop. I'm involved in the Dartmouth College Wind Ensemble (DCWE), Dartmouth Symphony Orchestra (DSO), Dartmouth Chamber Orchestra (DCO), Friday Night Rock, and of course, this blog. Academic Program Music, Neuroscience Favorite Thing Right Now Giving music recommendations!! Hometown Greenville, South Carolina Pronouns he/him/his About Click to Open D-Plan Click to Open You are here People Places Pines An Eventful End to 22S back Click to Close Chase's D-Plan What's a D-Plan? First Year Click to Open FallHanover, NH Favorite Class: Marine Policy As someone who did not know the ins and outs of marine policy, I loved learning about aspects of the blue economy. This class encourages us to be aware of the human aspect of marine problems regarding coastal erosion, pollution, and climate change. Professor Webster is the coolest! WinterHanover, NH Favorite Class: From Beethoven to Now (Modern Classical Music) I could not recommend this class enough to anyone who goes to this school! Professor Beaudoin has truly influenced me as both a musician and a student. We learn the music from the 1800's to present day including famous composers like Tchaikovsky, but also music by Beyonce and even the music of Dartmouth's professors. This is much more than a music history class. It is a class about music, our lives, and exploring the concept of sonder through musical lens. « All Posts by this Blogger An Eventful End to 22S Well, it is that time of the term again where everyone hides in the library for a few days (not really but I guess it is somewhat true)! I currently have two final projects and a paper to write within the next few days, which is honestly a little scary. However, I first had an amazing weekend to celebrate this term before I get started on my finals! This Hopkins Center hosted a symposium this weekend on Mexican music and the DCWE (Dartmouth College Wind Ensemble) was the central figure in leading the symposium. Our director, Brian Messier, planned and helped organize a weekend filled with events to not only discuss Mexican music and culture, but to perform it and view it! My parents decided to come visit me this time with my grandma to watch the concerts and enjoy the Hanover spring. They ended up attending every concert I had this weekend which totaled to be around five hours of performance. My view during the DCWE dress rehearsal before the concert After a busy rehearsal on a Thursday, I performed in a chamber concert where I organized a group to play an uncommon piece of music from a prominent early 20th century composer. Eventually, this concert ended with the world premiere of a drum set concerto from a composer who came up to Dartmouth for the world premiere of two of his compositions. Throughout the weekend, the DCWE members met the composers of all of the pieces we played on Friday night since the concert was filled with four premieres! This concert was probably one of my favorite concert cycles I have ever performed in because it was brand new music that was so fascinating to learn how to play. My friend and I taking a picture with our conductor Brian! After the symposium ended late Friday night, I went to bed since I had a recording session the next day to record these new pieces. Immediately after the recording session, I went to go perform in a concert with the DCO (Dartmouth Chamber Orchestra) to play lots of fun music. It was so nice to perform for my family and friends so much this weekend. After a year of little to none performances, this week finally made me feel like I was a performer again. To celebrate the concerts and the near end of the academic year, my friends and family went to eat dinner out together before my parents left town. Now, it is time to finish my finals and pack up my room to say goodbye to my freshman year. However, I am going to be studying Italian in Rome this summer so there is still plenty more to do! Click to show post info Post Information Posted 06/1/2022 at 9:00 AMAll Text Posts 22s Spring Music DCWE Band Parents Finals concert concerts DCO performance performing Copy This Link Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Posts You Might Like Visit the Blog Goodbye, 22S Happy last week of classes! Here are some of my reflections from my junior spring. Read More Love Tsai 2023 Greenkey: dancing in a field to internationally famous mucisians in Hanover! Dartmouth has too many traditions to name, but Greenkey is one of the best ones! Read on to find out about my experience this year! Read More Luke Grayson 2025 Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Freshman Year: A Retrospective A look back at my first year at Dartmouth! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 Taking my Professor to Lunch! Here's a reflection on my experience taking my computer science professor out for a free meal paid for by the school! Read More Jack Heaphy 2024 Work Hard, Play Hard: A Green Key Weekend at Dartmouth! After two years, Dartmouth's annual spring festival, known affectionately as Green Key, occurred this weekend! The weekend held many events, but even so, I saw the Dartmouth culture of work hard, play hard. Read More Tulio Huggins 2023 Saint Motel Meets Hanover: Green Key 2022! As the 23s, 24s, and 25s shared our first Green Key together, Dartmouth ended up bringing my middle-school self's favorite band to campus: here's how my Green Key went! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Green Key!!!!!! It's a Dartmouth tradition to celebrate Green Key every spring. What exactly is Green Key you ask? In short, it is one of the best weekends ever. Read More Paulina Cuadra 2025 Art Classes at Dartmouth Here are the courses my friends and I have taken to fulfill the distributive requirement for art. Read More Eda Naz Gokdemir 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback