Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Counselors Counselors Join us for monthly OSU - Counselor Huddles Read Jon Boeckenstedt's blog, Out Here in Oregon Visit OSU Meet Our Advisors Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Athletics AP/IB Advanced Credit Chart Virtual Visit Counselor Resources FAQ About OSU Oregon's Premier Research University Out There globe_icon_50px.png 110 Countries Represented nation_icon_50px.png 50 States Represented oregon_icon_50px.png 19,142 Oregon Residents Total Students: 31,904 26,480 Undergraduate 5,424 Graduate Who We Are Admissions Profile (mid-50%) Fall 2019 Men: 53% Women: 47% International Students 3,828 Students of color 7,976 First-year students 3,778 Average high school GPA of freshman class 3.63 Expenses 2020-2021 mu_icon_50px.png Resident Tuition: $12,165 Non-resident Tuition: $32,355 money_icon_50px.png Personal Expenses: $2,166 house_icon_50px.png Housing and Meals: $13,200 book_icon_50px.png Books and Supplies: $1,200 Visit Our Beautiful Campus! Come see what an OSU student's typical day is like. You will have the opportunity to learn about our academic programs, tour the residence halls, and take a student led tour of campus. Our friendly TOUR Ambassadors are happy to assist you in planning a personalized campus visit. OSU offers tours for high school and independent counselors! Virtual Walking Tour of Campus Using our new mobile application, you can take a walking tour of the Oregon State campus from your home or when you visit Corvallis. The Guidebook app is free and easy to use. Learn about OSU whenever it’s convenient for you! Virtual Tour OSU-Cascades (Bend) OSU in Portland Hatfield Marine Science Center (Newport) Counselor Resources Frequently asked questions (FAQ) Admissions FAQ SAT & ACT Score Policies Oregon State University is proud to announce that we have adopted a test-optional admissions policy for freshman students applying for Fall 2021 and beyond. Students can decide to submit standardized test scores if they think the scores will add something of value to our review, or they can choose not to submit test scores if they want us to focus more intently on the high school record and other supporting documents. Note: Oregon State University prefers that scores are sent electronically from College Board (SAT) and/or ACT, but will also accept scores included on official high school transcripts. It is not an advantage to pay extra for "rush" scores and in some cases may add to the time it will take to process the scores within our office. The SAT college code for Oregon State University is 4586. The ACT college code for Oregon State University is 3482. read more about OSU admission requirements read more about test optional admissions How to Send Transcripts Students who have applied by the Priority Application deadline of February 1 must have all supporting documents required to make their application file complete (official transcripts, official test scores, etc.) to the OSU Office of Admissions by February 16 to be considered. Complete Information About Sending Transcripts and Other Documents Deferring Admission New freshmen who are admitted for one term, but wish to defer their admission to a term in a future academic year must make a written request to the OSU Office of Admissions. Please reference our Deferring Your Admission page for complete details. Pharmacy EAP Oregon EAP Oregon is designed for high school seniors, current college students, and post-baccalaureate students to reserve their place in our Pharm.D. program! Campus Resources Disability Access TRiO Student Support Services Housing and Dining Bridge to Success (Oregon Residents) Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) Slate.org (to see student status or upload documents) Regional Organizations Association for Regional Representatives of Oregon and Washington (ARROW) Regional Admissions Counselors of California (RACC) PNACAC (Pacific NW Association for College Admission Counseling) Virtual Visits OSU Calendar We can't personally meet you or your students on-campus at the moment, so get to know us virtually! Admissions info presentation Campus tour Campus Walking Tour (Guidebook Mobile App) Learn about housing & dining Learn about academics & our Honors College Undecided? Explore OSU majors Social Media Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram