Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us First-Year Students Transfer Students Degree Partnership Program (DPP) International Students Postbaccalaureate Students Certificate Programs Non-Degree Students Información en Español Parents Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Request Info Visit Apply Majors List of All Majors Arts and Social Sciences Business Engineering and Information Systems Health and Wellness Oceans and Coasts Pre-Health Science and Natural Resources Teacher Education Visits and Events In-Person Tours Virtual OSU: Live Events Virtual OSU: On Demand Prospective Student Events Admitted Student Events Living in Corvallis Cost and Aid Tuition, Costs, and Financial Support WUE Overview Nonresident Tuition Equity Bridge to Success Program Presidential Scholarships Deadlines and Requirements Apply Admitted Students Contact Us Fall 2022 Application News Fall 2022 First-Year Freshmen Based on current space available at the Corvallis campus, we are no longer accepting first-year student applications for the Fall 2022 term. This includes Degree Partnership Program (DPP) applications. We would love to have you join Beaver Nation and have some other options for you to do so. OSU-Cascades Apply to our branch campus in Bend, OR. You get the best of both worlds at OSU–Cascades: the personal attention of a small campus, plus the strengths of Oregon’s leading public research university. Students who start at OSU-Cascades are able to change to Corvallis in a future term (Winter or Spring). Learn about OSU-Cascades Ecampus (Online) Oregon State Ecampus is ranked #5 in the nation and top 10 for the eighth straight year by U.S. News & World Report. First-year scholarships are not available to Ecampus students. Students who start at Ecampus are able to change to Corvallis in a future term (Winter or Spring). Ecampus Programs Non-Degree Non-degree students are part-time students and are expected to enroll in no more than eight credits per term. Non-degree students do not qualify for financial aid or on-campus housing. Students who start as non-degree are able to apply as degree-seeking in a future term (Winter or Spring). Non-Degree Information Contact Info Which office of Admissions would you like to contact? Domestic International Graduate Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Twitter Instagram