Jump to content Apply Visit Give Navigation Admissions Search form Search Main menu Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Neuroscience Undergraduate degree: BA or BS About the major Neuroscience is for undergraduate students interested in studying the relationship between the brain and behavior. Coursework is jointly taught by biology, human physiology and psychology faculty to provide well-rounded training. Foundational courses are in biology, chemistry, human physiology, math, physics, and psychology. Upper division coursework focuses on three main areas of neuroscience: molecular/cellular neuroscience, systems neuroscience, and cognitive neuroscience. Students can also take advanced skills courses in programming or computational techniques. They may also conduct cutting-edge research in a neuroscience lab. Neuroscience graduates will have a strong understanding of the structure and function of the nervous system, demonstrate critical thinking, quantitative and analytical skills, and communicate effectively about neuroscience research. A little more info Neuroscience is an interdisciplinary major that provides students with access to award-winning faculty across three different departments. All required neuroscience coursework has an emphasis in research, and students will be encouraged to join a research lab affiliated with the university's Institute of Neuroscience (ION). Students are encouraged to pursue additional research and mentorship opportunities, such as SCORE (Students of Color Opportunities for Research Enrichment), the McNair Scholars program, and JUMP (Joint Undergrad-Grad Mentorship Program). The University of Oregon is the first public institution in Oregon to offer a neuroscience degree. Career opportunities With a neuroscience degree, students will be prepared to pursue health-related careers, such as medicine, physical therapy, and occupational therapy. Graduates will also be equipped for science-related government, nonprofit, and health industry jobs. Additionally, neuroscience majors will be competitive for graduate programs at research universities. Learn More Resources Find Your Counselor UO Facts Campus Safety Residency En Español RESOURCES Campus Safety En Español Find Your Counselor Forms Regional Accreditation Request Info Status Portal Admissions 1217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Oregon Hall P: 800-BE-A-DUCK F: 541-346-5815 P: 541-346-3201 - Text Contact Us admissions@uoregon.edu Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Visit us on Instagram Accessibility Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination. Site Navigation Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Take Action Apply Visit Give