Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Types of Financial Aid back Click to Close 136 Millions of dollars of need-based scholarships awarded to Dartmouth students this year Resources & Information Click to Open More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Grants and Scholarships Grants and scholarships are funds for your education that do not need to be repaid. Dartmouth scholarship funds are all based on financial need. We do not offer any aid based on academic merit, artistic talent, athletic ability or other criteria. Learn more about the Grants and Scholarships we award. Work-Study and Student Employment Nearly all financial aid awards include employment eligibility. Students can choose to take this opportunity to work on campus and earn money to help cover their indirect costs. These earnings are paid directly to the student and are not applied to the student's tuition bill. Student Loans Loans are a type of aid which must be repaid. Low interest loans are offered as part of some financial aid awards or can be requested to assist in paying your family contribution. Learn more about the Student Loans we have available. Parent Loans for Undergraduate Students (PLUS) Loans are available for parents to cover the cost of the family contribution. PLUS are Federal Direct Loans in which the parent of a dependent student is the applicant/borrower. Learn more about Federal Direct PLUS Loans. Private Educational Loans This type of loan is available from private banks. Your ability to obtain private funding is largely based on your credit-worthiness and current indebtedness. Students will likely be required to use a cosigner. Learn more about Private Educational Loans. Featured on our Blog Visit the Blog As a low-income student, financial accessibility of social opportunities at Dartmouth has been crucial to my experience and have helped me find a great balance between work and play as a Dartmouth student. Read More Free Fun & Ramblings about my Pre-Pandemic Social Life Abbi Fralick 2023 Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback