Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission Video Introduction / Alumni Interview The video introduction and alumni interview each provide a wonderful opportunity for us to learn more about you. Breadcrumb Home First-Year Applicants Sub Navigation In This Section Early Decision Regular Decision Application Checklist Standardized Tests School Forms Selecting Academic Interests Supplementary Materials Video Introduction / Alumni Interview Video Introduction / Alumni Interview The video introduction and alumni interview each provide a wonderful opportunity for us to learn more about you. Once logged in to your Brown Applicant Portal you will be given the option to submit a two-minute personal video introduction. When submitting a video introduction, the Early Decision deadline is 11:59 p.m. (applicant's local time) November 4 and the Regular Decision deadline is 11:59 p.m. (applicant's local time) January 10. Video Introduction Alumni Interview Video Introduction The video introduction gives you an opportunity to tell us more about yourself, in your voice, beyond the information you provided in your application. Sharing a two-minute personal video is a helpful way to show us who you are and why you are interested in attending Brown. As with any aspect of the admission process, there is no specific topic or format we are hoping to see in your video introduction. Perhaps you’ll take us on a tour of your hometown, or talk to us about your favorite place. You might share a time that you were moved by music or art, or tell us about something you could talk about for hours. Maybe you’ll discuss how your friends would describe you, or how you feel about the Oxford comma. You could describe how you were influenced by a book that changed your perspective, or you could let us know what makes you happy. This is absolutely not an exhaustive list, and you are welcome to discuss any of these topics or anything else that will allow us to get to know you better. No two Brown students have the same story, and we don’t expect that any two video introductions will either. Video introductions may be submitted by logging into your Applicant Portal and uploading your file directly through the link provided on the sidebar. Once you have uploaded your video to your Applicant Portal, be sure to click preview to view your submitted video to ensure it appears correctly before hitting continue to submit. Video Introduction Tips Your video should begin with you in front of the camera saying, "Hi, my name is [insert name] from [high school]." After that, what you choose to say and how you choose to say it is up to you. Simple and unrehearsed is fine, and you are welcome to be creative. We recommend you dress casually as you would for a school day or school event. Videos will not be evaluated for production quality; we recommend sitting in front of your laptop/camera/tablet/phone and speaking directly to the audience. Make certain you are visible and audible during your video. Check the lighting and listen to your video after you have recorded it to ensure you are happy with the final product before submitting. Limit your video to no more than two minutes. Be sure your video is in landscape orientation so your finished product will not require viewers to turn their heads to the side when viewing on a desktop computer. Please view the Video Introduction Do's & Don'ts for some helpful tips from current Brown students. Alumni Interview In previous years, we have offered alumni interviews as a way for applicants to get to know Brown while also sharing more about themselves conversationally beyond the information provided in an application. However, as we strive to ensure that all applicants have equitable access to all components of our application process, alumni interviews will not be offered for the 2021-2022 admission cycle. To better enable consistency across our applicant pool, this year we hope you will instead consider submitting a two-minute video introduction to tell us more about yourself beyond the information you provided in your application. This additional component of the application process is recommended and may offer another avenue to show us who you are and why you are interested in attending Brown. Videos will not be evaluated for production quality or editing ability; we are simply hoping to get to know you through your own voice. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Video Introduction / Alumni Interview Open details for Video Introduction / Alumni Interview Bookmark this Page