Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us Academics How to Apply Tuition & Aid Student Life Connect About Us Search Admission Process Transfer Applicants International Applicants Financial Aid Merit Scholarships Academics Student Life Veterans Campus Visit Academics Majors Cognates Honors & Scholars Programs Dual-Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Resources How to Apply Options & Deadlines Requirements First-Year Transfer Submit My Application First-Year Transfer Veterans Transferring Credits My Application Status Withdraw My Application For Counselors Counselor Hub Tuition & Aid Scholarships Types of Aid Tuition & Costs Net Price Calculator Applying for Aid Office of Financial Assistance & Employment Student Life Living on Campus Health & Wellness Clubs & Organizations Athletics Campus Safety Connect Virtual Visit Information Session Meet Your Guides Events Virtual Tour Self-Guided Walking Tour Group Tour Our City About Us FAQs Class Profile Admission Blog Información en Español Find Your Counselor Request Information Contact Us More Sites Academic Bulletin Undergraduate Financial Aid ’Canes Success Center Admission Process Transfer Applicants International Applicants Financial Aid Merit Scholarships Academics Student Life Veterans Campus Visit About Us Academics How to Apply Financial Aid Student Life Visit University of Miami Undergraduate Admission About Us FAQs Financial Aid FAQs AAA Financial Aid FAQs Admission Process Transfer Applicants International Applicants Financial Aid Merit Scholarships Academics Student Life Veterans Campus Visit GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Open All Tabs How does financial aid work? Our How Financial Aid Works page provides you with valuable information about financial aid and student employment. Some of the highlights include: Financial planning Information on maintaining your financial aid eligibility What happens when your circumstances change A glossary of financial aid acronyms and terms You can also visit our Financial Aid TV for more information about financial aid, including short videos. How do I get University of Miami need-based aid? To be considered for need-based financial aid, prospective students must file both the CSS Profile and the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid). The CSS Profile is only required for new, undergraduate students. Continuing student need not resubmit. Visit our Applying for Aid page for more information. What is the difference between the CSS Profile and the FAFSA? CSS Profile is the College Scholarship Service, which is administered by the College Board to help universities determine eligibility for institutional need-based financial aid. FAFSA is used to apply for federal student aid, such as federal grants, loans, and work-study programs. Could I apply for UM merit scholarships? There is no separate application required; applicants are automatically considered for an academic scholarship when they apply for admission. UM awards merit scholarships to incoming undergraduate students based on their academic achievements. Visit our Scholarship FAQ page for more information. How can I estimate my financial aid before applying? For an early estimate of your financial aid award, we encourage you to use UM's Net Price Calculator. What is the difference between in-state and out-of-state tuition? Since UM is a private institution, tuition rates are the same for in-state and out-of-state students. You can visit our Tuition and Fees page for more information. What financial aid is available to Florida residents? There are both non‒need-based and need-based financial aid programs available to Florida residents, including Florida Bright Futures Scholarships and the Florida Student Access Grant (FSAG). Visit our Florida Aid Programs page for more information. Does UM accept the Florida Pre-Paid College? The University of Miami accepts the Florida Prepaid College Program. For more information, visit the Florida Prepaid College Program page. For any inquiries, please submit a case to canescentral.miami.edu. As a UM employee dependent, do I need to complete the CSS Profile and the FAFSA? Yes, if you wish to be considered for need-based assistance or federal loans, you need to need to complete the CSS Profile and the FAFSA. Employee dependents should be sure to complete the Certification of Florida Residency so we can determine your eligibility to receive Florida-based aid. Visit our Florida Aid Programs page for more information. Do you offer financial aid to international students and non-U.S. citizens? Yes, the University of Miami offers international student both merit and need-based aid. If you are applying for financial aid, you must submit the CSS Profile by the stated deadlines. For more information, please review the checklist on our Applying for Aid page. The University of Miami is need-aware. This means that, for a portion of applicants, the Admission Committee will consider that student’s ability to pay tuition without the need for financial aid. UM is committed to meeting the full demonstrated financial need of all admitted international students. All prospective first-year international students who apply for admission to UM must submit an International Financial Certification Form, which can be accessed via the applicant portal after you have submitted your application. Are DACA students eligible to receive financial aid? DACA high school seniors and transfer students in the state of Florida are eligible to receive need-based aid through the U Dreamers Program. Visit our U Dreamers Program page for more information. Why does UM require noncustodial parent information to determine eligibility for need-based institutional aid? UM's ﬁnancial aid policy begins with the premise that parents, even if they are divorced or separated, have the primary responsibility to contribute to their children’s college education costs to the extent that they are able before institutional need-based funds will be provided. In order to calculate an expected family contribution and determine a student’s ﬁnancial aid eligibility, we require ﬁnancial information from both natural parents and their current spouses. Will applying for financial aid hurt my chances of admission? Admission and financial aid applications (including all supporting documents) that remain incomplete by the respective deadline will be at a distinct disadvantage and will likely not be accepted. For complete application instructions, please review our first-year admission requirements. Do I need to reapply for financial assistance each year? Yes, to be reconsidered for need-based financial assistance, you must submit the FAFSA application each year no later than February 1. Could my financial aid change in future years? We reevaluate your ﬁnancial need each year by carefully reviewing the updated application and recalculating the family contribution. Any changes in your family’s ﬁnancial situation may alter your financial aid award. Will outside grants and scholarships affect my financial aid package? Your financial aid package may be affected if: The addition of your outside scholarship causes your award to exceed your demonstrated financial need The addition of your outside scholarship causes your total award to exceed the standard cost of attendance *Please note: Always check with the Office of Student Financial Assistance and Employment when adding any awards from outside agencies to find out the full impact of such awards on your UM financial aid award. Never assume that your original financial aid award will remain the same if new awards are added. We reserve the right to modify any financial aid award at any time due to changes in eligibility based on federal regulations and University policy. Visit our Terms and Conditions page for more information. How do I notify UM about my outside scholarships? If you are a recipient of an outside scholarship, you are required by the U. S. Department of Education to notify the Office of Student Financial Assistance and Employment (OSFAE). Please submit all information from the scholarship agency to the OSFAE as soon as the student is made aware of the award. Please use the Outside Scholarship Documentation Submission Form to report this information. Visit our Additional Scholarship Resources page for more information. How do I notify UM if I am no longer interested in being considered for need-based financial aid? To update your financial aid interest, be sure to complete the Financial Aid Status Update Form. If I miss the deadline, can I still apply for financial aid? Even if you missed the deadline, you can still apply; however, you must be aware that you will be at a distinct disadvantage. Be sure to complete both the CSS Profile and the FAFSA as soon as possible. If you are unable to find the answer to your financial aid question above, contact the Office of Student Financial Assistance and Employment directly at 305-284-6000. Visit our Student Financial Assistance and Employment page for more information to financial aid application requirements, deadlines, or expected costs. Are students enrolled in certificate only courses through Continuing Studies eligible to receive financial aid? Students enrolling in certificate courses through the Division of Continuing and International Education program may apply for private education loans through the lender of their choice. The loans are subject to approved credit. Approved loans may be certified by the institution to cover the billed cost of the certificate program only. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Undergraduate Admission 1306 Stanford Drive, Suite 1210 Coral Gables, FL 33146 TEL: 305-284-6000 TEL: 305-284-6000 FAX: 305-284-2507 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search myUM Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram tiktok Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback