Skip to main content Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... Close For Seniors: Tulane to go test optional another year (2022-2023 academic year): Learn more. Home / Student Life / Diversity custom css-js - global Diversity Multicultural and Access Programs Diversity Fellows Student Perspectives At Tulane we know the best learning comes from classrooms that reflect our multicultural world. We embrace a range of racial, ethnic, sexual, socioeconomic, religious, cultural, and educational backgrounds on campus. At the Office of Undergraduate Admission, we believe students should start preparing for college far before they are ready to submit an application. In order to extend the opportunity of education to all, our office hosts a number of workshops to help students and families complete college and financial aid applications, craft application essays, and create résumés. Some of our most anticipated recruitment events are our fly-in programs where select students are invited to stay on campus to engage with faculty and staff, visit classes, meet with a financial aid counselor, and explore the city of New Orleans. In collaboration with other offices on campus, we are proud to offer a fall fly-in program called PreviewTU, and a spring fly-in program called BienvenueTU. As part of our ongoing efforts to foster a more inclusive environment for all incoming and current students, we regularly collaborate with The Center for Academic Equity, The Office of Multicultural Affairs, The Office of International Students and Scholars, and The Office of Gender and Sexual Diversity. These offices bolster our efforts and provide robust resources to students from diverse backgrounds, including mentoring, personal support, grants, immigration support services, internships, and emergency funding. Clubs & Activities Traditions Diversity Multicultural and Access Programs Diversity Fellows Student Perspectives Only in New Orleans Housing Dining Fitness & Health Safety & Security Did You Know? Tulane is home to the Hogan Jazz Archive, the world's premier source of recordings, photographs and books about New Orleans jazz from its traditional roots to its modern form. Admission Blog NOLA Is Hot, But Our Festivals Are Hotter Meet the Class of 2026! All Things Residential Learning Communities (RLCs) Waitlist FAQs It’s All Going to Work Out More Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University