Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Admissions Search Menu Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour Search Admissions Inclusion Resources at Brown Learn more about our diversity, equity, and inclusion resources. Office of Diversity and Inclusion at the School of Public Health Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity at Brown Inclusion The Brown University School of Public Health Office of Admissions is committed to advancing and promoting a culture where everyone can live, learn, and prosper as their full, authentic selves. It is our position that discrimination in any form is unacceptable, and we acknowledge that racism is a significant societal problem that requires intervention. We unequivocally believe that: Black Lives Matter. We stand united against AAPI hate and affirm that respect and safety are foundational. Those who identify as LGBTQIA+ deserve space for authentic expression. First generation, low-income, and undocumented students deserve access to dedicated resources to ensure equity. Neurodiverse community members deserve a voice. People with disabilities deserve appropriate accommodations. Womxn deserve opportunities to advance to the highest level of public health leadership. People with criminal records deserve equal opportunity. We are on dispossessed land of Indigenous peoples, and it’s our responsibility to honor and respect Indigenous identity, heritage, and history. This list is not exhaustive, and that many underrepresented identities deserve our support and action. We believe in an inclusive and spacious movement to advance the diversity of the School of Public Health community and the health equity of the communities in which we work, study, and live. We encourage you to join us. Below are examples of the resources that the School of Public Health and Brown University offer to do the work necessary to validate our statements above: Actions to Confront Anti-Black Racism Advancing Racial Equity: Alumni Panel Connecting Talent program Health Equity Scholars Program Land Acknowledgement L.E.A.D. (Learning & Engaging Around Diversity) NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics oSTEM at Brown Public Health Womxn of Color Collective SPH Students of Color Affinity Group Support & Diversification of the Talent Pipeline Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion in a Virtual Space Resources at Brown Learn more about our diversity, equity, and inclusion resources. Office of Diversity and Inclusion at the School of Public Health Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity at Brown Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Inclusion Open details for Inclusion Bookmark this Page