Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Degrees and Programs You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple offers more than 150 majors across a wide range of challenging and in-demand fields. No matter what your goals are, you’ll have the tools and experience you need to accomplish them and get to where you want to be. But when deciding what university to apply to, it’s not just about having the major. We provide our students with access to expert faculty, unique research opportunities and state-of-the-art learning facilities. Contents Find Your MajorSchools and CollegesAcademic Program HighlightsOnline Learning ProgramTalk to Our Staff Find the right major for you. Explore the most up-to-date listing of majors online by using our degree search tool. Find a major in your area of interest below or browse all majors alphabetically. Return to Top /academics/schools-and-colleges Schools and Colleges Temple offers degree programs in 17 schools and colleges, including five professional schools. Discover more about each one. Link to schools and colleges page Return to Top Academic Program Highlights Fly in 4 Fly in 4 helps all students stay on track and graduate in four years. Special grants available for students who qualify, allowing them to focus more on their studies and less on working to finance their education. Learn more about Temple’s Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership. General Education The General Education Program focuses on making connections locally and globally, and looks at cutting-edge issues from multiple angles. Learn more about our General Education Program. Honors Program Temple's Honors Program offers academic advising, housing, leadership opportunities and seminars for high-achieving students. Learn more about Temple’s Honors Program. Diamond Research Scholars The Diamond Research Scholars Program provides the opportunity to engage in a focused, mentored research or creative arts project during the summer and fall. Learn more about Diamond Research Scholars. Health Scholars Program The Health Scholars Program offers multiple academic and fast-track options for premed students and other future healthcare leaders. Learn more about the Pre-med Health Scholars Program at Temple. TUteach The TUteach Program allows students to graduate with a bachelor of science in a math or science field and the qualifications to earn a middle or high school teaching certificate. Learn more about Temple’s innovative TUteach Program. ProRanger Program The ProRanger Program offers academic and technical skills training and paid internships for students looking to become law enforcement park rangers in the National Park Service. Learn more about the ProRanger Program. University Studies The Division of University Studies helps undecided students choose a major that fits and graduate on time. Learn more University Studies at Temple. Return to Top Online Learning Program Our Online Learning Program provides courses online and via videoconference, offering students more flexibility and enabling professionals to continue their education according to their own schedules. Courses are offered at the undergraduate and graduate levels, and to continuing education students. Learn more about our Online Learning Program. Talk to Our Admissions Staff You can now schedule a virtual appointment with an undergraduate admissions representative. We’re here to help you with any questions you may have about Temple and navigating the admissions process. First-year Staff Appointments Transfer Staff Appointments Return to Top Connect with students Connect With Our Students! Want to learn more about the Temple experience directly from students? Start a conversation with a current student and discover for yourself why they love Temple. Connect with students Return to Top Back to Main Academics Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info