WSU Cougar Head Logo Washington State University Give Apply Now Locations MyWSU Welcome Congratulations on your admission! At Washington State University Pullman, we forge lifelong friendships, build bridges across cultures and produce life-changing research. No matter your background we’re excited to welcome you home. WSU system-wide will require proof of the COVID-19 vaccination for the 2021 and 2022 academic years for all students engaging in activities at a WSU campus or location. For more information, including exemptions, please visit Washington State University (wsu.edu). Confirm Your Enrollment Use your Network ID to log in to myWSU. Accept your offer of admission. Pay your non-refundable $200 tuition deposit, due May 1.* Sign Up for University Housing Freshmen are required to live on campus for one year. The housing application requires a $400 advanced housing payment. After you receive your housing assignment, schedule your move-in day. Sign Up for New Coug Orientation All new students are required to attend New Coug Orientation* where you will meet other new Cougs and enroll in classes with the help of an advisor. Take Placement Exams Before Attending New Coug Orientation Math placement Writing placement Foreign Language Placement Send Documents, Final Transcripts and Exams File your FAFSA or WASFA between October 1 and January 31 (strongly encouraged). Complete the WSU General Scholarship Application by January 31 (strongly encouraged). Submit verification documents before March 15 (if required). Incoming freshmen should request an official high school transcript with final grades to be sent to WSU after graduation. Receive college credit by having official final college transcripts and AP/IB/AICE scores sent to WSU. WSU requires vaccination and immunization records for all students. Forms and other information are available from Cougar Health Services (CHS). Learn more at the CHS patient portal or contact CHS at cougarhealth@wsu.edu | 509-335-3575. Are you a transfer student? Check out your next steps as a transfer student at WSU. *If payment of the advanced tuition deposit, housing application and/or orientation registration creates financial hardship, please contact your admission counselor for details about deferring payments. Explore Pullman Take a virtual tour of the beautiful WSU Pullman campus. explore.wsu.edu 200+ 200+ Undergraduate Fields of Study At WSU Pullman, you can explore 200+ academic offerings: 95 majors, 86 minors, and more than 100 in-major specializations. academics.wsu.edu Transfer Your Credits transfer.wsu.edu More than 80% of WSU students enter with college credits. We’re here to help you use the credits you’ve earned to get the degree you want! You’re considered a transfer student for admission purposes if you have attended college after the summer following high school graduation. There are no credit minimums or course requirements to be eligible to transfer. OLUWANIFEMI “NIFE” SHOLA-DARE The way I envisioned my future before WSU has definitely changed. I never would’ve thought I’d have all the great experiences I’ve had at WSU. Oluwanifemi “Nife” Shola-Dare Class of 2021 | Neuroscience (Pre-Med) | Kobi, Nigeria #FutureCoug A Top Research University WSU is a Tier I research university, among fewer than 3% of U.S. universities that qualify for the Carnegie Foundation’s “very high research activity” classification. Our award-winning faculty is here to guide you through research opportunities, fieldwork, internships, and in-depth labs that inspire you to explore and innovate in your field. Amazon, Boeing, Deloitte, Google and Microsoft are some of the top employers of WSU graduates, and Cougar alumni span all 50 states and 146 countries. Our engaged alumni network helps fellow Cougs fast-forward their careers. Undergraduate Research undergraduateresearch.wsu.edu Research isn’t just lab coats and gloves. It’s about making new contributions and advancing knowledge in your field. At WSU, undergraduate research opportunities are available in all majors and disciplines, guided by mentors who are experts in their fields. Most importantly, it helps students like you gain professional experience and communication skills while testing out a career. In Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences, you could: Compose music for an instrument built from a vacuum cleaner Write dialogue for a VR video game script Fire pottery in a kiln modified to amplify solar power Investigate historical records to see how intercultural communities evolve In Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, you could: Develop new methods of shaping metal parts for an aero-robot Design new catalysts that burn renewable biodiesel instead of conventional diesel Engineer a parallel computing platform to speed up the analysis of large data sets Sequence unknown genomes in a laboratory setting Whatever you want to research, your mentors at WSU will help you do it. Find something you’re passionate about, grab a professor and get started! $369.3 MILLION in total research expenditures in 2019 (National Science Foundation) $230 MILLION in awards granted to WSU researchers in 2019 All 6 campuses and 11 colleges involved in research The Honors College honors.wsu.edu Looking for a challenge? Through an enriched curriculum, mentoring by expert faculty, undergraduate research and study abroad programs, the Honors College provides students the opportunity to challenge themselves in an engaged academic community. Students in any major can participate in the Honors College and graduate within four years, gaining critical leadership and professional experience along the way. The MESI Certificate The Honors College teaches happiness as a life skill. With the Mindfulness-based Emotional and Social Intelligence Certificate, students can improve their marketability and job performance while becoming more compassionate human beings and leaders in their respective fields. GUNNAR SLY Because of the Honors College, academics and research opportunities, I was convinced WSU was the place for me. Gunnar Sly Class of 2021 | Chemical Engineering | Spokane, Washington Study Abroad ip.wsu.edu/study-abroad Studying abroad is an option for all WSU students. Choose from 560+ study abroad programs across all 7 continents, learn about course preapproval and credit prerequisites, and research scholarship and financial aid opportunities to help you with the cost of travel. NCAA Division I Sports – Pac-12 Conference Experience the excitement of Pac-12 athletic competition! Regardless of the sport, you’ll be surrounded by crimson-clad fans in a celebration of Cougar pride. WSU students can purchase a sports pass that admits them to all regular season home events in football, volleyball, women’s soccer and basketball, and men’s basketball and baseball from August through May. Cougar game days are a town-wide celebration that you don’t want to miss! wsucougars.com 17 NCAA Division I Sports Teams Join ZZU Cru The official student fan club of the Cougs drives fan passion and pride at WSU athletic events. WSU Women’s Basketball The team earned their first top 25 ranking in program history in the 2020-21 season and made a return to the NCAA Tournament for the first time in three decades. EVELYN ROWE I knew I wanted to cheer in an amazing game day atmosphere with fan engagement, and I knew everybody at WSU would be helpful and uplifting in my path to becoming a doctor one day. Evelyn Rowe It’s Worth the Investment On average, a bachelor’s degree brings $1.6 million more than a high school diploma in lifetime earnings. The average mid-career salary for WSU graduates with a bachelor’s degree is $110,100, ranked among the top 16% of 4-year universities in the U.S. (PayScale College Salary Report 2020-21). Financial Aid Estimator and Net Price Calculator Learn the amount of financial aid you could qualify for at WSU, and determine your estimated net costs of attending college, including tuition, housing and more Cougar Money Matters Get financial planning advice, build a plan of how you’ll pay for WSU and more Every Coug Experience is Unique At WSU, you make your own path. There are hundreds of clubs, organizations and more to choose from. Here, you’ll make new friends and forge a lifetime of memories. Want to know how other Cougs get involved? Read personal stories about leadership, engagement and event participation from Cougs just like you. cougexperience.studentaffairs.wsu.edu Transitioning to college is a big deal! Find guidance and community support across campus with tutoring and mentoring programs from multicultural peers. Learn more about the Academic Enrichment Center and the Smart Start program for first-year and first-generation students, providing the tools needed to successfully complete a WSU degree. mss.wsu.edu/programs Eat, Sleep and Live Better – On Campus Studies show that students who live on campus have higher GPAs than students who don’t. We care about your success, and that’s why we require freshman to live on campus.* *Some exceptions apply Find Your Perfect Fit Imagine living with other Cougs filled with the same excitement to meet new people, cheering on our athletic teams and building a new home away from home. This is life living in a residence hall – an unparalleled experience that forms friendships that last a lifetime. We break the placement of residence halls on campus into groups—Hillside, Southside, and Northside. Most halls surround the center of campus, making the journey to classes, Terrell Mall, Compton Union Building, and Holland & Terrell Libraries an easy walk up the hill. Each hall has its own unique features, culture, and campus location. Find virtual tours, photos, room dimensions and more detailed amenities at housing.wsu.edu/residence-halls. Use the Residence Hall Rate Estimator to estimate your housing bill at housing.wsu.edu/estimator. 509-335-7732 housing.wsu.edu HANNAH GOODSPEED I was hoping everything I heard about WSU was true, and it was. Everyone here cares about the school and each other. This feels like home, but almost better because there are more people and it’s louder! Hannah Goodspeed © Washington State University 2022 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU