Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site FROST Home FROST Home FROST Admissions FROST Events About Us Meet the Dean The Frost Method Uniquely Frost Reasons to Apply Ensembles Top Alumni Community & Summer Programs Student Resources Undergraduate How to Apply Degree Programs Audition Requirements Instrument/Program Requirements Scholarships & Financial Support FAQs Graduate How to Apply Degree Programs Audition Requirements Scholarships & Financial Support Frost Online FAQs Faculty By Instrument By Program Department Chairs Visit Facilties Take a Tour Schedule a Visit Arriving at UM Directions & Parking Life in Miami Concert Calendar Contact Us Request Information Staff About Us Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Visit Contact Us Search Visit! Virtual Tour Schedule a Visit Facilities Arriving at UM Directions & Parking Life in Miami Concert Calendar Weeks Music Library About Us Meet the Dean The Frost Method Uniquely Frost Reasons to Apply Ensembles Top Alumni Community & Summer Programs Student Resources Undergraduate How to Apply Degree Programs Audition Requirements Instrument/Program Requirements Scholarships & Financial Support FAQs Graduate How to Apply Degree Programs Audition Requirements Scholarships & Financial Support Frost Online FAQs Faculty By Instrument By Program Department Chairs Visit Facilties Take a Tour Schedule a Visit Arriving at UM Directions & Parking Life in Miami Concert Calendar Contact Us Request Information Staff FROST Home FROST Home FROST Admissions FROST Events Visit! Virtual Tour Schedule a Visit Facilities Arriving at UM Directions & Parking Life in Miami Concert Calendar Weeks Music Library Faculty FROST Home Visit Us AAA Visit Us Visit! Virtual Tour Schedule a Visit Facilities Arriving at UM Directions & Parking Life in Miami Concert Calendar Weeks Music Library Faculty GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply We invite you to visit us! All visits must be scheduled in advance and follow specific protocols. Contact us for more information. Come and discover for yourself what makes the University of Miami Frost School of Music so special. Friday is the best day for visiting during the school year when you will be able to attend music forums and meet our students and faculty. We offer tours of the Frost School of Music facilities by appointment at the following times (subject to change): Monday - Thursday: 2:30 pm Friday: 10:00 am Please call 305-284-6168 to schedule a visit/tour/appointment or for more information. We also recommend a personal appointment with the Director of Admission and Recruitment. During certain times of the year, including Spring Break, we will be holding group information sessions due to a higher volume of daily visitors. Please contact us in advance to schedule a visit, as same-day requests are hard to accommodate and not always possible. The University of Miami Frost School of Music Admission Office is located in the Music Administration Center (MAC). Visitors to campus can find helpful information about parking, maps, and directions on the Parking and Transportation website. Lessons If you would like to take a private lesson or arrange a meeting with any of the Frost School faculty, please contact them directly by visiting the Faculty Profiles section of our website. The FSOM Office of Music Admission does not schedule lessons or meetings on behalf of Frost School faculty. Visit Classes Currently class visits are not available. Browse our website for more detailed information, or call us at any time. We are here to help! Office of Admission Frost School of Music Monday – Friday, 8:30am - 12pm & 1pm - 5pm Ph: 305-284-6168 Email: admission.music@miami.edu University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Frost School of Music Music Administration Center (MAC) 5503 San Amaro Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-6168 305-284-6168 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit UM Campus Map Frost Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices