Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Texas Admissions The University of Texas at Austin Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Enter your search terms below. Search Texas Admissions Search Explore Primary Items The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree Secondary Items Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Student Profile Apply Primary Items Admission Applying for Honors On-Campus Housing Secondary Items Selecting a Major Special Programs Admission Decisions Admissions FAQ Afford Primary Items Scholarships Financial Aid Accepting Awards Secondary Items Tuition & Costs Scholarship Database Texas Advance RaiseMe FAFSA Enroll Primary Items Choosing Your Future After-Admission Checklist Orientation Secondary Items Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment Coordinated Admission Program UTeach Access Menu You are here Home > Explore > Beyond Campus Beyond the Forty Acres The University of Texas at Austin sits at the heart of the fastest-growing city in the United States. Austin, Texas, is a city for the 21st century—diverse yet inclusive. We’re known for “keeping it weird,” but it’s not a prerequisite. For fun, locals and visitors alike flock to the annual South by Southwest and Austin City Limits festivals; keep cool at the iconic, spring-fed Barton Springs Pool; and enhance their understanding of the world at the Harry Ransom Center, located on the university campus and home to a Gutenberg Bible, the world’s first photograph and 30 million manuscripts. Don’t quit your day job, though. Professional opportunities abound. Interested in tech? Check out Dell, Apple and Facebook. Government? We live and work in the shadow of the Texas State Capitol. Business? Fortune 500 company Whole Foods is headquartered right here. Marketing? Try ad gurus GSD&M. Whatever you decide to do, know that in Austin, one thing is almost always true: You’re welcome. Study Abroad When you’re ready to expand your horizons, you’re in luck. We send more students to study abroad than almost any other university in the country. Because we recognize the value of an education that transcends boundaries—and borders—we’re committed to promoting access to opportunities both near and far. Quick Links Academics (Majors) Prerequisites Honors Programs Rankings Visit Campus Next: Back to Explore Go to The Forty Acres Beyond Campus After Your Degree admissions@austin.utexas.edu | 512-475-7399 Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Check us out on Instagram Explore Apply Afford Enroll Visit MyStatus Sign Up Español Contact Related Links UT Home University Resources Web Accessibility Web Privacy Equal Opportunity Campus Safety Campus Concealed Carry Rules © The University of Texas at Austin 2022