Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search Search Domains Search this site or CSUF general sites Search Type Site CSUF Search Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Admissions Main Navigation TRANSCRIPTS Show Extended High School Transcripts College Transcripts RESIDENCY APPEALS OUTREACH & RECRUITMENT FINANCIAL AID ORIENTATION CONTACT US Freshmenopen/close sub-navigation Apply Eligibility Requirements Local Admission Area High School Transcripts Freshmen Waitlist Transferopen/close sub-navigation Apply Eligibility Requirements Associate Degree for Transfer ¡Adelante! Pathway College Transcripts Transfer Waitlist International Graduate Admissions Appeal Residency for Tuition Purposes Veteran Resource Center Admissions Appeal Students whose applications have been denied or withdrawn for any of these reasons have the right to appeal as outlined in Section 89030.7 of the California Education Code. It is the responsibility of the Office of Admissions Appeals Committee to review admission appeals for undergraduate students for exception to university policy. Undergraduate Appeals Applicants are allowed one appeal per academic term, and must be submitted within 15 days from the notification date from the Office of Admissions. All appeals should include the following: Reason for appeal (mandatory) Appeal statement explaining the reason for the appeal (mandatory) Recent transcript(s) from all institutions attended (mandatory) Test scores or exam credit (if includes basis of appeal) Documentation supporting the appeal statement Appeals are based on extenuating circumstances and should include new and compelling information that was not initially presented in the application. In order for the appeal committee to render an appropriate decision, the appeal packet must be complete, otherwise the appeal will be automatically disqualified and denied. Please allow up to 30 days from the date your submission for the appeal committee to notify you of your decision. Types of appeals that will be considered are the following: Admission Decision This type of appeal is for admission denial due to unsatisfactory completion of the admission requirements. Examples include: CSU Minimum Eligibility Reconsideration Request Missed Deadline This type of appeal is for admission withdrawal due to failure to adhere to admission and enrollment deadlines. Examples include: Transcript (Document) Deadline Accept Offer/Enrollment Deposit Application Deadline (see below) how to submit an admissions appeal Log in using your username and password (to log in, you must have accessed your student portal). To submit the admissions appeal, the mandatory fields, as stated above, must be completed or attached. Appeals are reserved for applicants who have been "denied" or "withdrawn," all other applicants will be unable to. If you have received a waitlist offer, freshman or transfer , you will not be able to submit an appeal. Appeal Now Trouble logging in? Contact the Student IT helpdesk 657.278.8888 GRADUATE APPEALS Graduate students appealing admission decisions should visit Graduate Studies. Credential and 2nd bachelor (Nursing only) students need to consult their advisor for appeal information. You will not be able to submit an appeal using the form above. Late APPLICATION APPEALS The Office of Admissions is not accepting late application appeals at this time. Please apply during the next available application term. This site is maintained by Office of Admissions. Last Published 4/14/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact arwebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.