Skip to main content Colorado State University Admissions Visit Info Apply hamburger The Basics Information for Future Students Information for Counselors, Parents and Families Cost and Financial Aid What We Stand For The CSU Experience Academic programs This Amazing Location Campus Life The Value of a CSU Education Connect With CSU Request Info Find Your Counselor View Our Blog Contact Us COVID-19 Updates Visit Visits and Events Directions and Parking Virtual Tour Apply Applying to Colorado State Continuing Your Application Checking Your Application Status Graduate Student Admissions Admitted Students Applying to Colorado State We’re in this together We want to make applying to Colorado State University as easy as possible. That’s why we have created application guides for each student type. Once you have determined what type of student you are, your guide will explain all of the information you need to apply. It also contains the links to the proper applications. We encourage you to reach out to your counselor with questions at any time during the application process. International Students Learn about the additional steps International Students need to take to apply. International Guide Freshman/First-Year Students You will apply as a freshman if you’ve never attended college or if all of your college credits were earned prior to high school graduation. Freshman Application Guide and Applications For access to applications and a comprehensive look at requirements, deadlines, best practices and outcomes, start with the Freshman Application Guide. Freshman Students The Fall 2022 application is open. The Summer 2022 application is open. The Fall and Spring 2023 application will open August 1. Transfer Students You will apply as a transfer if you’ve attended a regionally accredited college after high school graduation. If your only college coursework was taken while in high school prior to graduation, apply as a freshman/first-year student. Transfer Application Guide and Application For access to applications and a comprehensive look at requirements, deadlines, best practices and outcomes, start with the Transfer Application Guide. Transfer Students The Fall 2022 application is open. The Summer 2022 application is open. The Spring 2023 application is open. Second Bachelor/Post-Bachelor Students You will apply as a Second Bachelor or Post-Bachelor student if you have completed an undergraduate degree and wish to complete a second degree or complete additional undergraduate coursework. Second and Post-Bachelor Application Guide and Applications For access to applications and a comprehensive look at requirements, deadlines, best practices and outcomes, start with the Second Bachelor and Post-Bachelor Application Guide. Second and Post-Bachelor The Fall 2022 application is open. The Summer 2022 application is open. The Spring 2023 application is open. Returning Undergraduate Students Apply as a Returning Undergraduate Student if you have previously attended CSU as a degree-seeking student. Returning Undergraduate Application Guide and Application For access to applications and a comprehensive look at requirements, deadlines, best practices and outcomes, start with the Returning Undergraduate Application Guide. Returning Students The Fall 2022 application is open. The Summer 2022 application is open. The Spring 2023 application is open. Graduate Students Apply as a Graduate Student if you have previously earned an undergraduate degree and are interested in pursuing a master’s degree, Ph.D., or graduate certificate. Application dates vary by program. Please check with the department’s admissions coordinator to find out more about which terms you can apply for and what the deadlines are. Graduate Application Information For access to applications and a comprehensive look at requirements and deadlines, start here. Graduate Students Non-Degree Programs Community members are welcome to take classes through the GUEST program, Summer Session or CSU Online. Non-Degree Programs In compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, Colorado State University publishes an Annual Security and Fire Safety Report. This report includes current security policies plus crime and fire statistics for the previous three calendar years. The body of the report also contains contact information for various campus and community resources related to crime prevention and survivor assistance. View a digital copy of the report, or you can request a printed copy at the CSU Police Department in Green Hall. Applying to CSU Getting Started Future Freshmen / First-Year Students Transfer Students International Freshmen / First-Year International Transfer Students Second Bachelor’s / Post-bachelor Graduate Students Non-Degree Students Returning to CSU Online Undergraduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Continuing Your Application Freshman Application Transfer Application Submitting Documents with Your Application Check Your Application Status Calendars and Deadlines Special Populations Adult Learners ASSET Eligible Students International Undergraduates Military Veterans Students with Disabilities Unique Circumstances Dual Enrollment / Fifth Year Early High School Graduation Homeschool Applicants Non-High School Graduates U.S. Citizens/Permanent Residents with International Coursework Non-Graded High School Work Online High School An equal access and equal opportunity university. © 2022 Colorado State University #colostatebound Contact Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement