Skip to Main Content Undergraduate Admissions Brown University Undergraduate Admission Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Connect Search Menu Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Search Undergraduate Admission For Counselors The Office of College Admission recognizes the critical role that counselors play in supporting their students and values our partnership at each point in the admission process. For Counselors The Office of College Admission recognizes the critical role that counselors play in supporting their students and values our partnership at each point in the admission process. We can support counselors throughout the admission cycle with the information required to navigate the college application process. You may explore the resources below to learn more about our policies and holistic admission practices. For updates throughout the year and to receive our annual counselor newsletter, please join our contact list. Important Links Applying to Brown Information for Applicants to the Class of 2026 First-Year Applicant Checklist Admission Officers by Area Standardized Tests Financial Aid at Brown Video Introduction/Alumni Interview Brown at a Glance FAQs/Contact Us Healthy Brown Integrity in the Application Process Events Recorded Information Session Campus Tours Virtual Student Chats Virtual Academic and Community Events Exploring Educational Excellence Virtual Brown Near You Publications for Download Counselor Newsletter Brown by the Numbers Life After Brown Brown Financial Aid Submitting Documents to Brown How to Submit To ensure the timely processing of application materials during the admission cycle, please submit documents via the Common App or other online credential request services. In the rare circumstances that this is not an option, you may submit materials via email to documents@brown.edu. If an item has been sent to Brown electronically, please do not mail duplicate hard copies. Midyear Required Documents for Early Decision Admitted Students and Regular Decision Applicants Please note that the following materials are due by February 24 or as soon as available for all Early Decision admitted students, as well as all Regular Decision applicants to Brown: Midyear Report Form Midyear Transcript Both items should be submitted online through the Common Application. The Midyear Transcript should include either first semester or both first and second trimester grades. The Midyear Report Form provides notice of any course changes or other updates. If your school does not provide formal midyear grades, we ask that you submit the most updated progress grades available whenever possible. Required Documents for Matriculating Students Please note that the following materials are due by July 1 for all students who have chosen to matriculate at Brown: Final School Report Form Final Transcript Both items should be submitted online through the Common Application. The Final Transcript should include final grades and confirm each student's successful completion of their secondary education. The Final School Report Form serves as additional confirmation of the student's successful completion of secondary school and should include the graduation date as well as notice of any course changes or other updates. We appreciate your help in ensuring that materials are submitted in a timely manner as we work to welcome the incoming class! College Fairs If you would like to invite a representative from Brown to your college fair, please email the invitation directly to collegefairs@brown.edu. As all requests must be received through this email account, we ask that you refrain from inviting alumni representatives directly. Please note that due to the volume of requests each year, we are limited in the number of fairs in which we are able to participate. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram Twitter © Brown University Undergraduate Admissions Brown University For You First Year Applicants International Applicants U.S. Military Veterans Resumed Undergraduate Education Applicants Transfer Applicants Visting Students Counselors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Explore Academics Campus Life Life After Brown Brown Facts Visit Apply Tuition & Aid Counselors Parents & Families FAQ/Contact Us Admission Officers: United States Admission Officers: International Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Connect All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search For Counselors Open details for For Counselors Bookmark this Page