Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Admissions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Explore Select to follow link Academics Student Life Success Afford Select to follow link Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Costs Visit Select to follow link Special Events Group Visits Schools & Spaces Plan Select to follow link College Prep Curriculum Apply Select to follow link Major-Specific Requirements High School Equivalency Exams Need-Based and Military Fee Waivers Credit Transfer Select to follow link Appealing Credit Decisions Credit and Exemption for High School Work Community College Guides Transfer and KU Core Codes Update Your Application Enroll Select to follow link Freshman Enrollment Select to follow link Freshman Enrollment Deposit Transfer Enrollment Info for Transfers Students of color Military affiliated students High-achieving students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Admissions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Apply Credit Transfer Transferring Credits to KU You might be able to earn college credits, exempt yourself from KU Core goals, or take higher-level KU courses based on classes and exams you've already taken. We can transfer credit only from institutions accredited by a U.S. regional accrediting agency at the time of completion. We transfer as many courses as possible as a direct match to KU courses. When no course corresponds, we use a code system to indicate how the course may fulfill KU Core, degree requirements, or count toward electives. Continuing education courses, graduate-level courses, and courses that are remedial, technical, vocational, medical or doctrinal in nature are not transferable. Sending Transcripts to KU Electronic Transcripts - Request an official electronic transcript from the relevant institution to be sent to KU Undergraduate Admissions at emprocessing@ku.edu. Mailed Transcripts - If an institution needs to mail a physical transcript, it can be sent to: University of Kansas KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Additional Information Appealing credit decisions Credit and exemption for high school work Community college guides Transfer and KU Core codes What credits might transfer? Our CredTran tool can show you how college courses completed at another institution have previously been evaluated and transferred to KU. Use CredTran Use CredTran Types of transferable credit High school credit Click to expand You might be able to earn college credits or start taking KU courses at a higher level based on retroactive credit from classes taken in high school, or from scores earned in the following tests: Advanced Placement College Level Examination Program International Baccalaureate Foreign language placement and proficiency exams Community college credit Click to expand A maximum of 64 hours of community college coursework can be applied toward a KU degree. All community college courses transfer as lower-level credit. A bachelor's degree from KU requires 45 upper-level hours. All transfer hours are converted to semester hours if necessary. You can see how courses from area community colleges transfer to KU with our community college transfer guides. Lower- and upper-level credit Click to expand Courses are matched as closely as possible by topic, but different schools may designate different levels of credit for the same course. KU grants the level of credit defined by the originating institution. A lower-level course completed at your original institution may match an upper-level course at KU, but it would still retain lower-level credit on your transcript, and vice versa. Completed degree credit Click to expand If you completed an associate's or bachelor's degree at another institution, your courses will be evaluated individually to see whether they are eligible for KU credit and whether they satisfy KU Core Goals. Once you've been admitted, you can review your Degree Progress Report online and meet with an academic advisor during Orientation to discuss any remaining course requirements before you enroll. Summer math course credit Click to expand If you enroll in a KU math course for the fall term and are taking a required prerequisite course over the summer at another institution, it is your responsibility to make sure the transferring institution can generate an official copy of your transcript, including a grade for the transfer math course, and mail it in time to arrive at the KU Office of Admissions by Aug. 13. Otherwise, you may be dropped from your fall math course at KU. Military service credit Click to expand The University of Kansas grants some college credit hours for U.S. veterans and active duty military. Once a student’s application is complete, the Office of Admissions evaluates and awards credit based on "A Guide to the Evaluation of Educational Experiences in the Armed Services," published by the American Council on Education (ACE). Based on an individual’s experience, KU Core Goals may be met using military credit and/or experiences. To earn four hours of credit in Health, Sport & Exercise Sciences for basic training, send us a copy of your DD-214 discharge papers and/or your JST. To earn credit for military courses, send a copy of your CLEP scores, your Joint Services Transcript (JST), Community College of the Airforce (CCAF) transcript, and/or Defense Language Institute's Foreign Language Center (DLIFLC) transcript. KU does not offer credit for Military Occupational Specialties (MOS) training or job experience. Credits that don't transfer Click to expand Credit is generally awarded for college-level coursework completed at institutions accredited by a regional accrediting organization recognized by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA). Courses must be similar in nature, level, and content to a course in our undergraduate curriculum and applicable to one of our academic programs. Continuing education courses, graduate-level courses, and courses that are remedial, technical, vocational, medical or doctrinal in nature are not transferable. (Contact your individual school about transfer credit if you plan to attend a program at the KU Medical Center campus). Remedial Courses - Courses considered to be below the level of collegiate study (e.g. basic algebra, reading skills) Vocational or Technical Courses - Courses at a two-year institution that are part of an applied associates degree or not designed as prerequisites for further collegiate study (e.g. office management, welding, automotive technology). Doctrinal Courses - Courses at any institution that advance a particular political or religious doctrine. Transfer credit from international institutions that are not accredited by a U.S. regional accrediting association are evaluated under different standards and may not transfer. If you earned a grade of D+ or below (or equivalent at your institution), your transfer credit may not be applied toward a degree. If the course is otherwise transferable, grades of D+, D, D- and F (or their equivalents) are used to calculate your cumulative transfer GPA. There is a growing list of course approved by the Kansas Board of Regents for System Wide Transfer (SWT) among all Kansas public postsecondary institutions offering an equivalent course. Visit kansasregents.org/transfer_articulation for more information. Get started Ready to apply? We often respond in less than a week to completed applications, which don’t require essays or final transcripts. If you want more information, join our mailing list or contact your admissions rep. Apply Apply Request info Request info Find your rep Find your rep KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 adm@ku.edu 785-864-3911 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Staff Admissions Reps Graduate admissions International admissions Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.