Skip to Main Content Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Admissions Search Menu Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour Search Admissions Master’s Funding Breadcrumb Home Tuition & Funding Sub Navigation In This Section Master's Funding PhD Funding Financing Your Degree The Association of Schools & Programs of Public Health (ASPPH) offers a list of external scholarship and fellowship opportunities. Learn More Master’s Funding Financial aid for master’s students varies by program, though most students are self-supported through a combination of scholarships, loans, outside funding, and/or assistantships. Scholarship and Funding Opportunities Need-Based and Merit Scholarship Consideration All applicants are automatically considered for merit scholarships; no additional steps are required. Domestic applicants to the master’s programs who wish to be considered for a need-based scholarship from the school must submit their FAFSA using the Brown University Graduate Federal School Code of E00058. International applicants to the master’s programs who wish to be considered for a need-based scholarship from the school must complete their CSS Profile using the Brown University Profile Code of 3189. Apply for External Funding ASPPH offers a list of external scholarship and fellowship opportunities. U.S. citizens and permanent residents are encouraged to apply for federal student loans using the FAFSA; international students should consider private loans. The Brown University graduate Federal School Code is E00058. Do not include the undergraduate Federal School Code of 003401. Please note our certificate programs are not eligible for federal student loans, but they can be financed with private loans. Make an Informed Decision Our graduates benefit from strong placement rates (95% within 12 months) and diverse career outcomes. Be sure to factor in Providence's cost of living and the School's Walk Score (90) when comparing schools. Pursue Opportunities for Current Students After you enroll at Brown, you are eligible to apply for additional funding opportunities, including: Conference travel funding from the Graduate School for students presenting at academic conferences. Graduate Student Council stipends for conference and dissertation/field work related travel expenses. Paid research or teaching assistantships, typically reserved for second-semester or second-year students. International Travel Funds Individual degree programs may offer thesis or research funding support, such as the MPH program's $300 Thesis Grant Award. Brown University Minority Health and Health Disparities International Research Training Program Special Awards: Nora Kahn Piore Award for Health Services Scholars and Loan Repayment Assistance for Alumni. Health Equity and NextGen Scholars Programs Health Equity Scholars Program The Health Equity Scholars program provides MPH students with the opportunity to address health disparities through research and practice, while also gaining critical skills for leadership. Applicants must be working toward or possess a postsecondary degree from a Historically Black College or University (HBCU) or Hispanic-Serving Institution (HSI). NextGen Scholars Program in Biostatistics The NextGen Scholars Program provides financial and academic support to outstanding students and graduates of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) to pursue a master’s degree in biostatistics at Brown University. Financing Your Degree The Association of Schools & Programs of Public Health (ASPPH) offers a list of external scholarship and fellowship opportunities. Learn More Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map Footer Navigation Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University School of Public Health Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Why Brown? By The Numbers Providence Requirements Application Fee Assistance Tuition & Funding Master's Funding PhD Funding FAQ Inclusion Connect with Us Student Ambassadors Alumni Ambassadors Virtual Tour This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Master’s Funding Open details for Master’s Funding Bookmark this Page