Skip to main content Colorado State University Admissions Visit Info Apply hamburger The Basics Information for Future Students Information for Counselors, Parents and Families Cost and Financial Aid What We Stand For The CSU Experience Academic programs This Amazing Location Campus Life The Value of a CSU Education Connect With CSU Request Info Find Your Counselor View Our Blog Contact Us COVID-19 Updates Visit Visits and Events Directions and Parking Virtual Tour Apply Applying to Colorado State Continuing Your Application Checking Your Application Status Graduate Student Admissions Admitted Students Academic opportunities There’s more to your degree than your major. You go to college for a program of study. But beyond the classes you take to earn your degree at Colorado State, you’ll find lots of opportunities that will support and elevate your academic journey. University Honors Program Challenge yourself to take your education to the next level. The University Honors Program is a community of academically motivated students who learn – and sometimes live – together. Honors students have access to small seminar-style classes, opportunities for leadership, priority registration, and more. See Honors Program Benefits Academic support Your success comes first. That’s why we offer resources to support you through every step of your college experience. From peer mentoring to professional advising to career services, we give you the tools you need to thrive during your time at CSU and beyond. Learn More About Academic Support Undergraduate Research You can conduct and even lead important research as an undergraduate student here at CSU. No matter what you major in, there are research opportunities that will deepen your knowledge in your field, plus give you an advantage when it’s time to apply for scholarships, graduate school, or a competitive career. Explore Undergraduate Research Exploratory Studies Support As an Exploratory Studies (or, undeclared-exploring) student, you have the opportunity to explore your academic options and find the path that’s right for you. You can guide your exploration by looking through these six ways to find a major. You can also work with your advisor to create a personalized academic plan. Learn More About Undeclared Options What are academics really like at CSU? To take a deeper look at the academic experience at CSU, check out our blog. SEE ACADEMIC BLOGS Academic Resources Descriptions of Majors Academic Blogs Academic Support Academic Visits & Events Exploratory Studies Find My Major Quiz Honors Minors Personalized Viewbook Undergraduate Research The CSU Experience Academic Programs This Amazing Location The Value of a CSU Education Campus Life The Basics Information for Future Students Information for Counselors, Parents and Families Cost and Financial Aid Net Price Calculator What We Stand For Rankings An equal access and equal opportunity university. © 2022 Colorado State University #colostatebound Contact Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement