Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site Non-degree students program The Non-Degree Students Program is designed to accommodate a small number of students with very specific academic goals which certain Yale courses can uniquely support. In recent years, approximately three to eight students have enrolled annually. Students are admitted for either one or two semesters and may take a specified number of courses, usually up to four courses each semester. Admissions Successful applicants to the Non-Degree Students Program show thoughtful rationales for why their curricular aims would be best fulfilled at Yale in particular. For students seeking to complete degree requirements or to meet common course prerequisites for undergraduate, graduate, or professional programs, we suggest enrollment at colleges or universities that offer more expansive visiting programs or extension schools. In addition to clearly stated educational plans, applicants should present evidence of strong academic preparation through current or previous college or university work. Students may apply to extend participation in the program beyond the number of terms specified upon admission, but continuation is not guaranteed. Tuition and Financial Aid Tuition for non-degree students for the 2022-2023 academic year is $6,875 per course credit. Most courses count as one credit. Labs are one-half credit; languages are one and one-half credits. Yale does not provide financial aid for non-degree students. Financial aid for the Non-Degree Student Program may be available from the federal government and supplemental private loan programs. Please review the Undergraduate Financial Aid website for more information. Yale employees are entitled to a tuition reduction. For more information, please contact the Office of Human Resources. Advising The Director of the Non-Degree Students Program, a member of the Yale College Dean’s Office, is available to help you select courses and provide academic counseling. Please note that Yale does not have a post baccalaureate pre-medical program and does not offer pre-health advising to non-degree students. Housing and Facilities Non-degree students may use Yale’s library system, as well as all laboratories, computer facilities, and other spaces required for course work. They may also purchase university dining hall meal plans, membership at the Payne Whitney Gymnasium, Yale Health Plan coverage, and may apply for university parking. Yale College Programs of Study The Yale College Programs of Study describes Yale College courses in detail. It also contains the Academic Regulations and a chapter on the Non-Degree Students Program that all interested candidates should read. Contact Information Please send inquiries regarding the Non-Degree Students Program to: nondegree.students@yale.edu Office of Undergraduate Admissions Non-Degree Students Program P. O. Box 208234 New Haven, CT 06520-8234 Telephone: 203.432.9301 Fax: 203.436.9777 Yale University’s Nondiscrimination/Title IX Statements The University is committed to basing judgments concerning the admission, education, and employment of individuals upon their qualifications and abilities and affirmatively seeks to attract to its faculty, staff, and student body qualified persons of diverse backgrounds. In accordance with this policy and as delineated by federal and Connecticut law, Yale does not discriminate in admissions, educational programs, or employment against any individual on account of that individual’s sex, race, color, religion, age, disability, status as a protected veteran, or national or ethnic origin; nor does Yale discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression. University policy is committed to affirmative action under law in employment of women, minority group members, individuals with disabilities, and protected veterans. Inquiries concerning these policies may be referred to Valarie Stanley, Director of the Office for Equal Opportunity Programs, 221 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Floor, New Haven, CT 203.432.0849. For additional information, see www.yale.edu/equalopportunity. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from sex discrimination in educational programs and activities at institutions that receive federal financial assistance. Questions regarding Title IX may be referred to the University’s Title IX Coordinator, Stephanie Spangler, at 203.432.4446 or at titleix@yale.edu, or to the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 8th Floor, Five Post Office Square, Boston MA 02109-3921. Telephone: 617.289.0111, Fax: 617.289.0150, TDD: 800.877.8339, or Email: ocr.boston@ed.gov. In This Section Non-Degree Students Program Non-Degree Students Application & Deadlines International Non-Degree Students Non-Degree Students Program FAQs Related Links Open Yale Courses Course Catalog Programs of Study Academic Calendar Yale College Dean's Office Alumni Auditing Program Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved