Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Temple University Updating Your Application Contact Us Undergraduate Admissions Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search International Campuses and Study Abroad You are here Home Academics International Campuses & Study Abroad About Meet Our Staff Meet Our International Staff Fast Facts Our Campuses Contact Apply First-year Students Self-report High School Transcript Test Optional Transfer Students Transfer Equivalency Tool Dual Admissions International Students Frequently Asked Questions Discover Temple in Your Language Military & Veteran Students Admitted Students Experience Temple Incoming Students and Vaccines Request to Reenroll Updating Your Application Visit Information Sessions Weekday Virtual Information Session Transfer Tuesday Virtual Session Saturday Virtual Information Session International Student Visits & Virtual Events Recorded Information Session Tours Virtual Main Campus Tour On-campus Tours School and College Experiences Ambler Campus Experiences Preview Days Directions, Parking and Accommodations Academics Degrees and Programs Programs by Campus Schools & Colleges Fly in 4 Graduation Partnership Need-based Grants & Eligibility Student Testimonials Faculty Academic Advising & Resources International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Research & Learning Spaces Research Opportunities Facilities Careers & Student Spotlights Programs for High School Students Cecil B. Moore Scholars Program Reduced Tuition for High School Students Costs, Aid & Scholarships Tuition & Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Scholarships Scholarships for International Students The Broad Street Finish Line Grant Educational Loans Grants Work-study Student Life Student Activities Housing & Dining Living in Philadelphia Diversity & Well-being Health & Wellness Diversity & Inclusivity Integrity & Ethics Request Information Here’s what’s waiting for you—in Philadelphia and around the world. At Temple, we encourage students to participate in a study abroad program to experience and achieve an international perspective. Students can customize their experience by studying abroad over the course of a semester, academic year or summer. Studying abroad provides global advantages such as learning a new language, gaining real-world experience with an international internship and standing out when applying for professional opportunities or postgraduate studies. In addition to study abroad programs, Temple offers many Study Away programs in different parts of the country for students to experience life in another city. Most Study Away programs include internships to further develop and hone professional skills. Fast Facts Temple has campuses worldwide. Nearly 40,000 students attend campuses that span the globe, from campuses in Philadelphia and Ambler, Pennsylvania, to campuses in Rome, Italy, and Tokyo, Japan. Temple Rome is one of the oldest and highly respected U.S. programs in Italy. Temple Japan is the oldest and largest foreign university in Japan and the only full foreign university offering degrees entirely in English. Temple offers additional programs in other countries and locations in the U.S. You can study in England, Spain, South Africa, Los Angeles, New York City and more. Temple works with over 200 partner institutions worldwide. Temple ranked in the top 40 US Doctorate-granting universities with the highest number of students who study abroad, according to the Institute for International Education. (Ranking received in the 2017-2018 AY) Contents Why Study AbroadTemple JapanTemple RomeOther ProgramsFinancing Your Experience Why Study Abroad Intern in Tokyo. Study art in Rome. Learn to speak Spanish in Barcelona. Each year, more than 750 Temple students experience the world by studying abroad. Your experience abroad can last a month, a semester or a year. We value studying abroad because we know it’s linked to career success, problem-solving, collaboration and communication—all skills employers look for. Rebekkah Nyack TUJ graduate “I always wanted to work in an embassy or be a diplomat or work with an international organization. I thought it would be cool to be Canadian going to an American school in Japan.” Read More Return to Top International Campuses Temple has overseas campuses in Tokyo, Japan, and Rome, Italy, for students to seamlessly immerse themselves in another culture while staying on track to earn their degrees—with all classes taught by Temple faculty. Get started exploring with our interactive tour, which brings both campuses to you so you can get a feel for life as a Temple student abroad. Temple Japan (TUJ) Temple Japan is the only full foreign university in Japan offering undergraduate and graduate degrees, as well as PhDs, and is located in central Tokyo. Here’s what to know. The campus relocated in 2019, so all facilities are new in a more vibrant, student-friendly neighborhood in central Tokyo. Spend a semester, an entire academic year or complete an entire degree. There’s a dynamic internship program, which provides the opportunity to gain international work experience. Temple Rome Temple Rome, located within walking distance of the Spanish Steps in central Rome, is the longest-standing and most prestigious American study abroad program in Italy. Here’s what you need to know. Spend a semester, a summer or an entire academic year at this campus. The Temple Rome Entry Year program is a pathway for students to complete their first academic year in Rome before coming to Main Campus to finish their degree. Many students volunteer and do internships while in Rome, which makes them more competitive for other opportunities like fellowships and jobs. Return to Top Culture and Identity Envoy Program Ewan Johnson ’20 studied abroad at Temple Rome. There, he was a diversity abroad ambassador and realized something: Studying abroad is not the same for all students. He decided to collaborate with Temple Rome and the Education Abroad Office to develop the Culture and Identity Envoy Program. Ewan Johnson Temple Rome graduate The Culture and Identity Envoy Program works to enhance program resources for students with disabilities, who are an ethnic or racial minority, identify as part of the LGBTQIA+ community, or are first-generation college students or have high financial need. Read More Photo Gallery View slideshow as list Close 1/16 Students who study at Temple Japan will have the opportunity to explore downtown Tokyo. 2/16 Temple Rome's campus has common spaces for students to collaborate and study. 3/16 Temple students often explore Japan outside of Tokyo for class trips and organized social student outings. 4/16 Tokyo has a massive public transportation system, which makes it easy for students to explore the Japanese countryside. Many classes get out of the city to learn more about Japanese culture and history. 5/16 Many faculty members at Temple Rome take their students out into the city for class to explore the architecture, art, history and more. 6/16 Rome is known for it's rich art history and galleries where many students visit as part of their coursework. 7/16 Temple Rome students fully immerse in Roman life and enjoy the traditional charm of the ancient city while still having all of the amenities of a modern urban center. 8/16 Temple Japan is located in central Tokyo so students can easily access the various vibrant neighborhoods for dining, shopping, cultural experiences and more. 9/16 Temple Rome’s campus is centrally located in the city. 10/16 Temple Rome is housed in the Villa Caproni, a beautiful and historic building facing the Tiber River in the heart of Rome. 11/16 Art studios at Temple Rome are always lively and open for student and faculty use. 12/16 Temple Rome offers several study spaces on its campus for students to meet, collaborate or hang out between classes. 13/16 Temple Japan’s campus relocated in 2019 to new facilities built just for Temple, creating a more traditional campus environment in the heart of Tokyo. 14/16 Even though Tokyo is a megacity, there are many parks and green spaces for students to easily access. 15/16 The building that Temple Rome is located in is known as the Villa Caproni. 16/16 Student work is showcased in a gallery space located right on Temple Japan's campus. Students who study at Temple Japan will have the opportunity to explore downtown Tokyo. Temple Rome's campus has common spaces for students to collaborate and study. Temple students often explore Japan outside of Tokyo for class trips and organized social student outings. Tokyo has a massive public transportation system, which makes it easy for students to explore the Japanese countryside. Many classes get out of the city to learn more about Japanese culture and history. Many faculty members at Temple Rome take their students out into the city for class to explore the architecture, art, history and more. Rome is known for it's rich art history and galleries where many students visit as part of their coursework. Temple Rome students fully immerse in Roman life and enjoy the traditional charm of the ancient city while still having all of the amenities of a modern urban center. Temple Japan is located in central Tokyo so students can easily access the various vibrant neighborhoods for dining, shopping, cultural experiences and more. Temple Rome’s campus is centrally located in the city. Temple Rome is housed in the Villa Caproni, a beautiful and historic building facing the Tiber River in the heart of Rome. Art studios at Temple Rome are always lively and open for student and faculty use. Temple Rome offers several study spaces on its campus for students to meet, collaborate or hang out between classes. Temple Japan’s campus relocated in 2019 to new facilities built just for Temple, creating a more traditional campus environment in the heart of Tokyo. Even though Tokyo is a megacity, there are many parks and green spaces for students to easily access. The building that Temple Rome is located in is known as the Villa Caproni. Student work is showcased in a gallery space located right on Temple Japan's campus. Return to Top Other International and Domestic Programs At Temple, you have opportunities to study abroad in other countries, too. In fact, we’ll help you find a way to study in whatever country you want to. We have programs in England, South Africa, Spain and more, though you’re never limited to Temple’s programs. We have partnerships with other schools so you’re able to go where you want to go. Our study abroad advisors within your specific school or college will make the process as easy as possible to ensure your credits all transfer with external programs. Additionally, we offer a variety of domestic programs in the U.S. International Programs Temple University in Spain, based at the University of Oviedo, offers the opportunity for interactive and personalized cultural learning, incorporating in-class language courses with a homestay and daily interactions with local citizens. Temple’s approved external programs offer a number of new opportunities sponsored by other colleges and universities. Temple’s summer programs are offered at our international campuses and programs taught by faculty in France, Germany, Italy, Korea and Spain. Temple’s college-specific programs are open to students in a variety of majors. Domestic Programs Temple University’s Los Angeles Study Away program has been offered to students for almost two decades and boosted the university's presence in Hollywood. Temple’s Washington Semester in Washington, D.C., and Capital Semester in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, are offered through the College of Liberal Arts. Learn more Study Abroad Opportunities Learn more about other study abroad programs available to Temple students. Learn more Study Away programs Return to Top Financing Study Abroad or Away Experiences One of the primary misconceptions is that studying abroad will cost more than your traditional degree. If you choose to study abroad or away through a Temple program, the tuition is the same as it would be if you were on Main Campus. If you’re opting to study through an external program, we’re here to help you figure it out. Explore how much it costs, and learn more about scholarship money available to study abroad. Keep Up With Us To see what our students are up to, follow us on Instagram at @TempleUAbroad. Return to Top Back to Main Academics Go back to AcademicsMore in International Campuses & Study Abroad Global Cities Global Immersion Program Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Office of Undergraduate Admissions Conwell Hall 103 1801 N. Broad St.Philadelphia, PA 19122-6096 USA 215-204-7200 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Directions Graduate Admissions Maps Privacy Our Campuses Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info