Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Apply for Financial Aid The instructions below are for prospective applicants. If you are an enrolled student, please visit the financial aid website for current students. Financial aid forms and deadlines Early Action Regular Decision Transfer Program Princeton Financial Aid Application (PFAA) Nov. 9 Feb. 1 March 9 Parents' 2020 federal income tax return and W-2 statements (or the equivalent for non-filers) Nov. 9 Feb. 1 March 9 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Nov. 9 Feb. 1 March 9 Noncustodial Parent Form or Waiver Request Form Nov. 9 Feb. 1 March 9 To complete the Princeton Financial Aid Application, you must first apply for admission and create your Princeton Applicant Portal account. Instructions on how to set up your Applicant Portal are sent via email within 48 hours after you submit your admission application. The same credentials will be used to access the Princeton Financial Aid Application. Complete the Princeton Financial Aid Application The Princeton Financial Aid Application (PFAA) is free and easy to use for both U.S. and international applicants. You may save your data and return to the application as many times as you wish before submitting; we will provide confirmation after we receive your application. After you submit your application, you may continue to view it on the Web, but any new information must be uploaded or sent by letter, fax or email. We do not require nor recommend the CSS Profile for applying for aid at Princeton. If you have already listed Princeton as a Profile recipient, you may import some data from the Profile to the Princeton application. The Princeton application accommodates all applicants, including Canadian and other international students. We recommend that you view the Family and Household Status, Income Documentation, and Reporting your Assets and Expenses pages as they provide useful tips for completing your application. Upload a copy of your parents' 2020 tax return and W-2 statements Once you submit the PFAA, you'll be able to upload tax documents. The required document can be uploaded one time in the appropriate document type field. If needed, you can use the "other" field for an additional upload. The tax return upload should include the Form 1040 federal income tax return, all schedules, W-2 statements, and schedule K-1s, if applicable. If your parent(s) do not file a U.S. tax return, you must submit an additional document in its place. Please review the Income Documentation page to be sure to submit the correct information. Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid If you are a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, you are required to submit a FAFSA as part of your aid application. Make sure to include Princeton's Federal School Code, 002627, on the form to ensure we receive your completed FAFSA. Submit noncustodial parent information If your parents are divorced, separated, or unmarried and living in separate households, and your custodial parent is not (re)married, you are required to complete the Noncustodial Parent's Form to be considered for need-based aid at Princeton. Please review the Family and Household Status page to learn more about this requirement. Apply for Financial Aid Related Links: Financial Aid Office Code of Conduct Princeton University Nondiscrimination Statement FAFSA Free Application for Federal Student Aid fafsa.gov Full content of https://studentaid.gov/h/apply-for-aid/fafsa One Perspective on Financial Aid by Jonathan Haynes Full content of https://admission.princeton.edu/blogs/one-perspective-financial-aid Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746