Menu Admitted Undergraduates Welcome! Next Steps Fall First-Year Summer First-Year Transfer Non-Degree Dual Enrollment Financial Aid Orientation & Housing Connect with Campus Get to Know Tech Campus Community Show Your Pride Visit Tech Visit Tech College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Liberal Arts College of Sciences Scheller College of Business Pay Deposits College of Sciences Welcome! We’re so glad you’re here. A little about us: We are scientists and mathematicians who work to develop young leaders and a spectrum of scientific solutions for a better world. We cultivate curiosity, encourage exploration, and foster innovation — evolving knowledge and technology to increase our understanding of the universe and improve the human condition. We collaborate across disciplines and challenges to achieve excellence in science, teaching, and research. Working across six internationally ranked schools with the brightest young minds in our fields, we help students find and push the frontiers of human knowledge, imagination, and innovation. And that’s where you fit in. We’re looking for curious minds who love to investigate, experiment, ask questions, and work out solutions. If you’re ready to make discoveries that change how we see the world and how it works, we’re ready for you! Nicholas Pinto GRADUATE Major: Mathematics and Economics Georgia Tech opened Nicholas to many discoveries, about himself, the world, and myriad activities he didn’t know about before. During his study-abroad trip, he fell in love with the German language enough to want to learn it. As a mathematics teaching assistant, he discovered his passion for teaching mathematics. Learn more. Visit Opportunities Learn more about the College of Sciences at our spring open house events! Explore Science and Math What are Georgia Tech College of Sciences Grads Doing Now? Lauren Reaves, Meteorologist at the National Weather Service Michelle Lyons, Associate Partner, McKinsey & Company Libby Peck, Former Mathematical Analyst at The Coca-Cola Company Ali Azadi, Dental Student, Dental College of Georgia Austin Hope, Executive Compensation Specialist at Google Joshua Allen, Senior Vice President, Research and Development, Oncoceutics See All Majors See Where College of Sciences Students Take Classes View Facilities Note: video footage captured prior to Covid-19 pandemic. Learn More About the College of Sciences Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology