Menu Undergraduate Admission Home Prepare for College Visit Visit Georgia Tech Prepare for Your Visit Explore Atlanta Virtual Visits Apply First-Year Admission Transfer Admission International Applicants International First-Year Applicants International Transfer Applicants Other Programs Dual Enrollment Non-Degree Programs 62 and Older Program Counselors Contact Us Contact Us Join Mailing List Blog Check Application Status International Transfer Admission The Georgia Institute of Technology welcomes close to 4,000 students from countries other than the United States to campus each year, and over 1,000 of these students are studying as undergraduates. International Transfer Application Eligibility International students who have graduated from secondary school, completed minimum course requirements by major, and have a minimum of 30 semester credit hours can apply to transfer to Georgia Tech. Minimum course requirements by major should be complete prior to a transfer application and minimum grade point average requirements apply (3.3 minimum GPA for Engineering and Computer Science majors, 3.0 for all other majors). International Transfer Document Requirements An official transcript from each institution you have enrolled is required. Official transcript(s) must be sent by the institution to our office. Georgia Tech does not waive or exclude any prior enrollment as part of our application review. A foreign credit evaluation with a comprehensive course-by course assessment and grade point average (GPA) evaluation is required of all International students applying with current or past enrollment at an institution based outside the United States. We recommend working with approved credit evaluation providers to electronically submit your official transcript and foreign credit evaluation together to our office. A list of approved credit evaluation service providers is available on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services website. English Language Proficiency Requirements Georgia Tech is a lively and collaborative atmosphere, and it is imperative that students have the ability to contribute to classroom discussions and engage in the Georgia Tech community outside of the classroom. International transfer applicants demonstrate English proficiency by completing the minimum course requirements for their intended major. There are two English Composition course requirements (equivalent to English Composition 1101 and 1102 at Georgia Tech) for each academic major. Competitive transfer applicants will complete these courses prior to the course requirement deadline. We do not require international transfer applicants to provide official test scores to satisfy the English Language Proficiency requirement. International transfer applicants may self-report test scores (TOEFL, IELTS, Duolingo, etc.) within their application. International Transfer Credit Evaluation Requirements Additional course information including but not limited to course syllabi, course topic outline, textbook information, and accreditation information may be requested from international transfer students applying from institutions based outside the United States. An academic review of this information will determine if a student has transfer credit equivalent to course requirements by major and 30 semester credit hours at Georgia Tech. International students who do not meet application requirements will be notified by our office. International Credit Review Review the Institute’s transfer credit policy for more information. Coursework at colleges and universities outside the United States is reviewed on a case-by-case basis. English taught abroad as a foreign language is not proof of English Proficiency or transferable to Georgia Tech. Review Application Requirements Contact Us Directory Offices Campus Map Support/Give Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Human Trafficking Notice Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2021 Georgia Institute of Technology This website uses cookies. For more information, review our Privacy & Legal Notice. Questions? Please email privacy@gatech.edu. OK