Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions High School Counselors and Community-Based Organizations A Partnership for Success We recognize high school counselors and community-based organizations are instrumental in supporting students through the college admissions process. At NC State, we both value this commitment to your student’s success and welcome the opportunity to work alongside you. Our goal is to ensure that you have the resources you need to guide your students through this process. The below information is for high school counselors and community-based organizations. Getting started Preparing Students to Apply NC State will be test-optional for 2023 and 2024 first-year applicants. Get informed Planning for College Guide Use this guide to prepare your students for success beginning in 9th grade. Get prepared Join Our Email List Sign up to receive updates about the application process and NC State events. Get connected Visit Requests NC State admissions representatives are ready to meet with you and your students at private visits or college fairs. Email us Announcements and Events Virtual Counselor Events Register to attend one of our virtual counselor events to learn more about NC State and the admissions process. Read more There are a variety of ways to stay up-to-date with the admissions office and NC State’s application process. Check back monthly to see new announcements and events for counselors. Announcements NC State will be test-optional for 2023 and 2024 first-year applicants. Learn more about test score consideration in the admissions process here. Visit our Pack on the Prowl page to see when NC State admissions representatives are available to connect with your students through virtual and in-person college fairs and school visits. Request a copy of our counselor packet here. Admissions updates Information for Applicants on the Waitlist Due to the large number of competitive applicants, we are unable to admit all qualified students for our fall class. We will contact students by June 15 if we are able to offer them admission. Learn more about what it means to be on the waitlist. Information for Applicants Admitted for Spring Connect We choose to admit a select number of applicants to enroll for the spring semester due to limited space in the fall class and our commitment to college access and student success. Learn more about the Spring Connect program here. Slate.org Counselor Portal Slate.org is a free tool for school counselors to maintain awareness of where students reside in the admissions process, and conveniently and securely submit materials directly to our office. Learn where to get started Additional Resources Use the below resources to assist in guiding your students through the admissions process at NC State. First-Year Application Review Learn what we take into consideration during application review for first-year students. Dates and Deadlines Review application deadlines for fall and spring entry. Some majors have timelines that differ from other programs. Credit Opportunities See how your students may be provided college credit for courses completed in high school. First-Year Profile View the average profile of a fall 2021 first-year enrolled student. Majors and Minors View 100+ major options ranging from accounting to zoology. Contact Our Office Have additional questions? Get in contact with our office. Frequently Asked Questions Learn how to submit official transcripts, fee waiver documentation and more. Get the answers Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.