Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Tour Visit Apply × Close Menu Affordability at TU Apply Apply First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Graduate Applicants Law Applicants Other Students Credit By Exam Financial Aid Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Free Application for Federal Student Aid Visit Campus Visit Campus Academic Webinars Plan Your Individual Visit Preview TU Group Visits University Ambassadors Area Hotels Directions to Campus Maps Explore Tulsa Virtual Tour Special Programs Special Programs Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars Student Life Student Life International Student Services Housing & Dining Student Organizations Campus Recreation Career Services Health Center Student Accessibility New Student Programs Office of Student Affairs Find Your Admission Counselor Request Information Quick Links News Events Calendar Maps Athletics Contact TU Information For... Future Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Veteran Students Undergraduate Students International Students Graduate Students Law Students Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How do I interview for admission? Where is the new student checklist? How do I schedule a visit? What majors are offered? How much does TU cost? How can I transfer to TU? Close Search Link to site home page Office of Admission > International Admission > Tuition, Fees and Expenses Tuition, Fees and Expenses INTERNATIONAL ADMISSION International Undergraduate Application Checklist Transcript Evaluation English Proficiency Requirement Tuition, Fees and Expenses International Student Scholarships Transfer Credits Frequently Asked Questions The following are estimated expenses in U.S. dollars for the 2022-23 academic year. Undergraduate Tuition and Fees Tuition, fees (subject to change) Annual Cost Fall and Spring Tuition* $45,566 International Fee $360 Health Insurance $2,200 Student Association Fee $160 Community Fee $250 Technology Fee $500 Health Fee $200 Total Tuition and Fees $49,236 Living Expenses Living Expenses Annual Cost Textbooks $0 Housing (on-campus)** $7,400 Food*** $5,366 Residence Hall Fee $50 Personal Expenses $4,450 Total Living Expenses $17,462 Total Tuition, Fees, and Living Expenses $66,502 There is a one-time Student Services fee of $485 for first-time enrollees. * Estimate based on 12-18 credit hours per semester at a cost of $1,636 per credit hour ** Housing estimate based on double room in Hardesty Hall plus fees – Cost is per student *** Cost based on a university meal plan with 12 meals per week (plus $400 Dining and $50 Game Day Dollars) Summer Additional Expenses Students who intend to take summer classes will need to have additional funds as estimated below. Tuition Summer Tuition Policy International Fee $100 Estimated Living Expenses $1,900/month Students who will have family members accompanying them must show an additional $3,000 for a spouse and $1,500 for each dependent child. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT