Skip to main content menu Cornell University SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Undergraduate Admissions Apply First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Veteran Applicants What Cornell Looks For Forms & Materials Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Requirements Ivy League Agreement Admission Revocation Policy First-Year ApplicantsIt all starts here Transfer ApplicantsEasy transition Check Application Status Costs & Aid Apply for Aid Financial Aid Eligibility Costs to Attend Financial Aid Calculator Value of a Cornell Education Learn Academics Global Opportunities First-Year Experience Research Opportunities Study Spots Cornell A-Z Cornell ROTC Veterans at Cornell Information for Prospective Applicants with a Misdemeanor or Felony Conviction Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Cornelliana Facts Frequently Asked Questions Cornell A-Z Visit Virtual Visit Plan Your Visit Arriving on Campus Classroom Visits Visit Alternatives Cornell in Your Hometown Online Events Contact Search our FAQ Join Our Mailing List Contact a Student Connect on Social Media Contact an Admissions Representative College and School Contact Information Application Mailing Instructions Counselor Connections You are here Home » Living » Traditions print share Facebook Twitter Traditions Founded in 1865, Cornell is the only Ivy League institution to be designated a land-grant university. And it is full of traditions, some just plain fun and some a little quirky. Dragon Day Every year around St. Patrick's Day, an enormous dragon created by first-year architecture students parades across the campus. Accompanied by architecture students in outrageous costumes and heckled by rival engineering students, the dragon lumbers to the Arts Quad where it is slain. This rite of spring is one of Cornell's best-known traditions and has been for over a century. Ice Hockey Big Red ice hockey is one of Cornell’s most treasured spectator sports. Learn the Lynah Rink cheers and you’re good to go. Wait until you see the Zamboni driver's costumes as he preps the ice for home games! Slope Day This annual celebration of the last day of classes takes over beautiful Libe Slope and includes music, entertainment, camaraderie, and lots of fun. Cornelliana Cornell has a language all its own. Navigating the campus and all its activities becomes a lot easier once you know the lingo. Living Where to Live, Where to Eat Recreation and Sports Getting Involved Just for Fun Diversity Traditions Cornelliana Contact Us From your first questions about Cornell to the completion of your application, the Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you find the information you need. Website Feedback If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. University Privacy Statement Undergraduate Admissions Office Cornell University 410 Thurston Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 admissions@cornell.edu Tel: 607.255.5241 Fax: 607.255.0659 © 2022 Cornell University Admissions Financial Aid Student Employment Admitted Students