Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Tour Visit Apply × Close Menu Affordability at TU Apply Apply First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Graduate Applicants Law Applicants Other Students Credit By Exam Financial Aid Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Free Application for Federal Student Aid Visit Campus Visit Campus Academic Webinars Plan Your Individual Visit Preview TU Group Visits University Ambassadors Area Hotels Directions to Campus Maps Explore Tulsa Virtual Tour Special Programs Special Programs Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars Student Life Student Life International Student Services Housing & Dining Student Organizations Campus Recreation Career Services Health Center Student Accessibility New Student Programs Office of Student Affairs Find Your Admission Counselor Request Information Quick Links News Events Calendar Maps Athletics Contact TU Information For... Future Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Veteran Students Undergraduate Students International Students Graduate Students Law Students Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How do I interview for admission? Where is the new student checklist? How do I schedule a visit? What majors are offered? How much does TU cost? How can I transfer to TU? Close Search Link to site home page Office of Admission > International Admission > Transcript Evaluation Transcript Evaluation INTERNATIONAL ADMISSION International Undergraduate Application Checklist Transcript Evaluation English Proficiency Requirement Tuition, Fees and Expenses International Student Scholarships Transfer Credits Frequently Asked Questions To ensure a fair review of your academic achievements, and ensure all students are awarded the appropriate merit scholarship award, The University of Tulsa now requires all international undergraduate applicants who have attended school outside of The United States of America will be required to submit their transcripts through a NACES (National Association of Credential Evaluation Services) approved evaluator. You can read more about approved credential evaluators here. The University of Tulsa encourages the use of World Education Services (WES) or Spantran. Because of the fee incurred by this service, TU’s $50 application fee will be waived. All international undergraduate applicants must submit a credential evaluation from an approved NACES credential evaluator service. You can begin the WES Credential Evaluation process here. Incoming freshman students should complete a Document by Document evaluation. Transfer students should submit a Course by Course evaluation. Spantran has created a custom application for University of Tulsa that will make sure you select the right kind of evaluation at a discounted rate. You can access their application here: SpanTran Pathway – University of Tulsa. You can view other approved credential evaluators here. Why WES? WES/World Education Services is a 45+-year-old non-profit social enterprise dedicated to helping international students, immigrants and refugees achieve their educational and career goals by advocating for the recognition and acceptance of the academic credentials they have already earned. Since 1974, WES has provided credential evaluations to nearly 3 million individuals from more than 200 countries. A WES evaluation advantages both the applicant and the recipient: WES evaluations are prepared on official records from the issuing institutions (either in sealed envelopes or via a direct digital transmission – over 7500 institutions now send WES official records electronically). WES evaluations are completed in 7 business days following the “all documents are complete” emailed notification. WES delivers completed evaluations and copies of the authenticated documents to over 2500 colleges, universities, employers and licensing boards via a secure electronic platform. The reports are delivered 15 minutes after completion and typically applicants do not have to submit a second set of official transcripts; the copies from WES are accepted as official by the recipient. WES evaluations never “expire.” Applicants can order duplicate copies at any time for future use (further education, employment, licensing, immigration), whenever they want to share the authenticity and equivalency of their education earned outside of the US. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT