Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Tour Visit Apply × Close Menu Affordability at TU Apply Apply First Year Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Graduate Applicants Law Applicants Other Students Credit By Exam Financial Aid Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Free Application for Federal Student Aid Visit Campus Visit Campus Academic Webinars Plan Your Individual Visit Preview TU Group Visits University Ambassadors Area Hotels Directions to Campus Maps Explore Tulsa Virtual Tour Special Programs Special Programs Early Careers In Community Medicine Honors Program Leadership TU Presbyterian Leaders & Scholars Program Presidential Scholars Student Life Student Life International Student Services Housing & Dining Student Organizations Campus Recreation Career Services Health Center Student Accessibility New Student Programs Office of Student Affairs Find Your Admission Counselor Request Information Quick Links News Events Calendar Maps Athletics Contact TU Information For... Future Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Veteran Students Undergraduate Students International Students Graduate Students Law Students Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How do I interview for admission? Where is the new student checklist? How do I schedule a visit? What majors are offered? How much does TU cost? How can I transfer to TU? Close Search Link to site home page Office of Admission exploretulsa Welcome to the City of Tulsa — with a population of 400,000, Tulsa is an important center of commerce and industry with a thriving arts community. Tulsa’s entertainment options include pro sports, fine and performing arts, festivals, zoos, a water park, bike and hiking trails, rivers and lakes. Districts. Tulsa boasts one of the nation’s most extensive collections of Art Deco architecture. Beyond our Deco District, downtown offers several other micro-districts — each with its own sense of place and things to do. Deco District Blue Dome Greenwood The Pearl Tulsa Arts District Concerts. Tulsa has a rich local music history, literally pioneering genres from western swing in the 1930s to the “Tulsa Sound” in the 1970s to pop and alternative music today. Tulsa has outstanding venues to hear live music and everyone plays Tulsa. Cain's Ballroom BOK Center Tulsa Theater River Spirit The Joint: Tulsa Festivals. We have a lot to celebrate, and we do it in grand style with many community-building festivals — from Tulsa Oktoberfest with authentic German musicians, beer and wursts to Tulsa International Mayfest, a four-day arts festival with great food and local and regional musical acts. Mayfest Oktoberfest Greek Festival HopJam Winterfest Restaurants. From homegrown barbecue and Tex-Mex to fine French and Italian cuisine, Tulsa has restaurants to fit every taste and budget. Fresh sushi, independent coffee shops and vegan delicacies line Brookside while food trucks are a staple around Guthrie Green. Restaurant Guide Visit Tulsa Tulsa People Food & Drink TulsaFood.com Food Trucks Nature. The Tulsa Zoo and Living Museum features more than 1,500 animals representing 436 species. Animal exhibits include the Giraffe Experience, the Chimpanzee Connection, the Penguin Exhibit and the Helmerich Sea Lion Cove. Across town at the Oklahoma Aquarium, you can get up close to thousands of saltwater and freshwater fish and animals. Turkey Mountain Tulsa Zoo Oklahoma Aquarium Oxley Nature Center Tallgrass Prairie Preserve Theater. Whether it’s classic, contemporary, locally produced or touring Broadway shows, you’ll find a variety of performing arts in Tulsa. For decades, Tulsa Ballet and Tulsa Opera have been regarded as among the best in the nation. Tulsa PAC Tulsa Ballet Tulsa Opera Theater Tulsa Tulsa Little Theatre Museums. The world’s largest collection of art and artifacts of the American West are found at Gilcrease Museum, which also features an outstanding Native American collection. The legacy of Thomas Gilcrease is owned by the City of Tulsa and managed by TU. Gilcrease Museum Philbrook Museum Air and Space Museum Greenwood Cultural Center Woody Guthrie Center Sports. The Tulsa Drillers baseball team draws legions of fans to our sleek new downtown stadium: ONEOK Field. A few blocks away is the BOK Center, which is home to the Tulsa Oilers and our Central Hockey League team. Tulsa Drillers Tulsa Oilers FC Tulsa Oklahoma City Thunder Tulsa Athletic Shopping. From fashionable to funky, Tulsa offers a multitude of shopping experiences. Explore eclectic boutiques and pop-up shops near campus and downtown. Woodland Hills Mall is more than 1 million square feet of retail heaven with 165-plus stores. Utica Square Brookside Promenade Mall Woodland Hills Mall Boxyard Fitness. Gathering Place River Parks Climb Tulsa YWCA Guthrie Green 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Strategic Plan Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT