Skip to main content Florida State University Search Navigation This is your Donation message. Log In FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Office of Admissions Toggle navigation Menu FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL PROFESSIONAL College of Medicine College of Law OTHER Readmissions Non-Degree Transient Application Type FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE READMISSIONS TRANSIENT NON-DEGREE Requirements FIRST-YEAR TRANSFER GRADUATE INTERNATIONAL Seminole Pathways FSU Panama City Pathway International Programs Transfer Home Graduate Application Portal Graduate Application Portal Welcome to the Graduate Admissions Application Portal. Announcements We are currently accepting graduate applications for Fall 2022 and Spring 2023. Readmissions students may apply for Fall 2022 or Spring 2023. However, many academic programs admit only for a specific term. Prospective applicants must contact the academic program for available terms. To apply to the College of Law's Juris Master program, please go to: Juris Master Admissions. Apply Now Florida State University reserves the right to close admission early if warranted by enrollment limitations and the number and quality of applications. Florida State University encourages applications for admission from qualified students regardless of race, creed, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, veteran or marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or any other protected group status in accordance with all pertinent federal, state, and local laws on non-discrimination and equal opportunity. Mailing Address A2500 University Center 282 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Email Undergraduate - admissions@fsu.edu Graduate - graduateadmissions@fsu.edu Phone Admissions - 850.644.6200 Directory Assistance - 850.644.2525 Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram TikTokTikTok Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Florida State University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, baccalaureate, masters, specialist, and doctoral degrees. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Florida State University.