Skip Navigation Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open subpages Main Menu How to Apply COVID-19 Update Admission Statistics Academic Preparation Standardized Testing Application Dates & Deadlines Single-Choice Early Action Regular Decision Application Checklist Princeton Supplement Graded Written Paper Optional Arts Supplement Helpful Tips QuestBridge Undocumented or DACA Students U.S. Military Applicants International Students Home Schooled Students Transfer Students Transfer Eligibility Transfer Application Dates & Deadlines Transfer Application Checklist Princeton Transfer Supplement Counselors Joint Ivy Statement on Admission Policies Cost & Aid Apply for Financial Aid Family and Household Status Income Documentation Reporting Your Assets and Expenses Fees & Payment Options Financial Aid Estimator How Princeton's Aid Program Works Financial Aid by the Numbers Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Bridge Year Advising and Mentoring Campus Life Diverse Community Clubs and Organizations Housing Dining Options Eating Clubs ROTC Athletics Campus Resources Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Fun Facts Visit Us Getting to Campus Virtual Information Session Tours Latest Announcements Regarding COVID-19 and Policies Podcast Virtual Receptions by Region Digital Publications Meet Our Students Blog Counselors FAQs Contact Us En Español Enter your keywords Search icon Search icon Search icon Visit Princeton.edu Navigation Open Search the site Enter your keywords Search icon Academics What Does Liberal Arts Mean? Quick Facts About Princeton Faculty Profiles Degrees & Departments Certificate Programs The Senior Thesis Freshman Seminars The Precept System Intern & Study Abroad Advising and Mentoring The Senior Thesis From the outset of their time at Princeton, students are encouraged and challenged to develop their scholarly interests and to evolve as independent thinkers. The culmination of this process is the senior thesis, which provides a unique opportunity for students to pursue original research and scholarship in a field of their choosing. At Princeton, every senior writes a thesis or, in the case of some engineering departments, undertakes a substantial independent project. Integral to the senior thesis process is the opportunity to work one-on-one with a faculty member who guides the development of the project. Thesis writers and advisers agree that the most valuable outcome of the senior thesis is the chance for students to enhance skills that are the foundation of future success, including creativity, intellectual engagement, mental discipline and the ability to meet new challenges. Many students develop projects from ideas sparked in the classes they’ve taken; others fashion their topics on the basis of long-standing personal passions. Most thesis writers encounter the intellectual twists and turns of any good research project, where the questions emerge as they proceed, often taking them in unexpected directions. Planning for the senior thesis starts in earnest in the junior year, when students complete a significant research project known as the junior paper. Students who plan ahead can make good use of the University's considerable resources, such as receiving University funds to do research in the United States or abroad. Other students use summer internships as a launching pad for their thesis. For some science and engineering projects, students stay on campus the summer before their senior year to get a head start on lab work. Writing a thesis encourages the self-confidence and high ambitions that come from mastering a difficult challenge. It fosters the development of specific skills and habits of mind that augur well for future success. No wonder generations of graduates look back on the senior thesis as the most valuable academic component of their Princeton experience. Senior Thesis: Sustainable Building With Bamboo Play Video: Senior Thesis: Sustainable Building With Bamboo Video of Senior thesis: Sustainable building with bamboo Undergraduate Blog The Infamous Senior Thesis By Andrea Reino Learn More Full content of /blogs/infamous-senior-thesis University News A Look Inside the Creative Senior Thesis Read Full content of https://www.princeton.edu/news/2019/07/16/look-inside-creative-senior-thesis Senior Thesis: The Humanity of Improvisational Dance Play Video: Senior Thesis: The Humanity of Improvisational Dance Video of Esin Yunusoglu - Dance Princeton University Main Site Admission Publications Contact Us FAQs Request Information Privacy Notice Accessibility #PrincetonU Twitter Twitter icon Facebook Facebook icon Instagram Instagram icon Youtube Youtube icon The Office of Admission resides within the Office of the Dean of the College © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton Shield icon Est.1746