Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Admissions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Explore Select to follow link Academics Student Life Success Afford Select to follow link Freshman Scholarships Transfer Scholarships Costs Visit Select to follow link Special Events Group Visits Schools & Spaces Plan Select to follow link College Prep Curriculum Apply Select to follow link Major-Specific Requirements High School Equivalency Exams Need-Based and Military Fee Waivers Credit Transfer Select to follow link Appealing Credit Decisions Credit and Exemption for High School Work Community College Guides Transfer and KU Core Codes Update Your Application Enroll Select to follow link Freshman Enrollment Select to follow link Freshman Enrollment Deposit Transfer Enrollment Info for Transfers Students of color Military affiliated students High-achieving students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Admissions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Information for Transferring to the University of Kansas Whether you’re completing a degree or pursuing new paths, you’ll find in KU a community that welcomes your experience and gives rise to real innovation. Get started Ready to apply? We often respond in less than a week to completed applications, which don’t require essays or final transcripts. If you want more information, join our mailing list or contact your admissions rep. Apply Apply Request info Request info Find your rep Find your rep Costs, requirements, and opportunities The decision to transfer comes with big questions: Can I get in? Will my credits transfer? Can I earn scholarships? Let’s break down the details. Transfer students are assured admission with 24+ transferable credit hours at a GPA of 2.5 or higher from a regionally accredited community college, college, or university. Resources Transferring credits Transfer scholarships Tuition & costs Next steps Important Deadlines Dec. 1 Spring semester scholarship deadline Jan. 14 Final spring semester application deadline May 1 Fall semester scholarship deadline Aug. 19 Final fall semester application deadline Your transfer options Hilltops, laptops — you could earn a KU education from just about anywhere. Each way to transfer offers its own share of opportunities and advantages. Lawrence Study at our flagship campus, where you’ll choose from over 200 fields of study and 400 degrees and certificates. Learn More Edwards Campus Offering evening classes and over 30 degree programs, the Edwards Campus in Overland Park is a practical transfer choice. Learn More Online You could earn your KU online degree from just about anywhere — and it could cost less than out-of-state tuition. Learn More Swipe to see more Visiting KU Virtual tours and online information sessions are convenient options for those who would like to connect from anywhere. We also encourage campus visits whenever possible and offer tailored sessions for transfer students throughout the year. Virtual tours Virtual tours Transfer Fridays Transfer Fridays Next steps for admitted students If you’ve been accepted to KU, you have a short list of things to do before your first day of classes. We’re here to help you transfer successfully. See next steps KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 adm@ku.edu 785-864-3911 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Staff Admissions Reps Graduate admissions International admissions Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.