Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Student Resources Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Because Dartmouth wants to ensure that students develop to their fullest potential, student life is supported in many ways. Accessible all year round, these resources are always available to students. From getting flu shots to treating poison ivy and fevers, Dick's House, the on-campus health center, is there to provide inclusive, quality health care - even if that means connecting students to local hospitals for escalated situations, like receiving x-rays. On the second floor of Dick's House, the Counseling and Human Development Center connects students with counselors and other appropriate professionals to assist students with psychological challenges. Through the Office of Residential Life, Dartmouth assures that residential communities remain inclusive and that students commit to social responsibility. A place to practice leadership, students learn how to best approach their concerns and develop skills to prosper in unfamiliar systems and environments. Becoming a better person for the world through educating students on empowerment, responsibility, and information, students walk away with a better understanding of their personal identity. While students are assigned to one of six house systems, they are always welcome to participate in most of the other houses' events. The open campus fosters an ardent balance between house competitions and overall school spirit - because, in the end, all students here are Dartmouth students. At Dartmouth, students also have a community beyond their house system. The Tucker Center, where religious faith is celebrated, welcomes everyone in hopes of helping students celebrate whatever their spirituality or beliefs may be. As a diverse community, Dartmouth understands the importance of religion and promotes a culture that does not discriminate, and instead, encourages compassion. In addition to the advice students receive from their peers, all students have a faculty advisor with whom they meet with to plan their academic path. Faculty advisors are specific to student interests. For example, students who indicate that they are interested in economics will have a faculty advisor who teaches in the economics department. Deciding on a potential major, which courses to take each term, and how students can spend their off-terms are all areas faculty advisors venture to assist students to make the wisest choice. With faculty and student one-on-one appointments, finding and applying for internships, research positions, and study abroad programs becomes a much simpler process. I was afraid to email professors about research positions because I'm a first-year student. My faculty advisor assured me that I shouldn't worry about it because the professors are pretty chill. By the end of our conversation, he offered me a position as a research assistant in his computational social affective neuroscience lab. —Maryam "Mia" Iqbal '21 With the Office of Pluralism and Leadership (OPAL), students receive consultation over experiences related to self-advocacy, finding one's community, and managing personal strengths to thrive in any environment. Located on the second floor of Collis, OPAL is available to provide counsel for underrepresented students. When students do not know which students resource to use, they can contact their undergraduate dean. While undergraduate deans have a particular specialty with discussing academics, such as students' midterms, interests, and goals, they also guide students to appropriate resources. And throughout the term, undergraduate deans frequently send out weekly emails to keep students up to date with internship opportunities, helpful study resources, and hours that they can meet with students to answer questions and offer advice. Dartmouth is an academic institution, but a residential one. The health and well-being of students is imperative to their success in the classroom and beyond. Between academic support services and student life resources, Dartmouth makes sure that their students are happy and healthy. On campus, starting to feel better begins with an appointment. Featured on our Blog Not everything about college is perfect. Not all days are happy days, and not all classes are nice classes. Come see my trajectory using mental health resources at Dartmouth! Read More Taking care of yourself! Antônio Jorge Medeiros Batista Silva 2025 Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback