Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Commitment to Diversity Get on our Mailing ListApply to DartmouthExplore Virtually Dartmouth is dedicated to establishing and maintaining a safe and nondiscriminatory learning, living, and working environment in which all individuals are treated with respect and dignity. The students accepted to the Class of 2025 come from a broad spectrum of society, with 48% of students identifying as Black, Indigenous, and other people of color (BIPOC). Admitted students represent 51 different tribal nations and other Indigenous groups across North America. A record-high 17% of students are the first generation in their family to attend college. More In This Section Click to expose navigation links on mobile. Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Many Cultures, One Community "Every day I feel like I know more at lunchtime than I did in the morning. I've especially enjoyed meeting other international students and engaging in cross-cultural dialogue with them about their experiences and home countries." — Tehut Biru '21, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia At Dartmouth, diversity is one of our great natural resources. It's the foundation of the learning experience and a core element of the campus environment. We have developed several programs and initiatives to help turn that remarkable diversity into inspired collaborations, lifelong friendships, and global networks. We're proud of these efforts and the enduring impact on the students who participate. "I am a Muslim Filipino, which is a rarity, but growing up in the Bronx, I was used to a highly diverse community. I was excited to find that Dartmouth is a very vibrant quilt. Everybody here is extraordinary in some way. There's no 'typical' to compare yourself against. Our curiosity and our humanity are what bind us. We connect to one another with open hearts." — Lawrence Abu-Hammour '19, Bronx, NY The Tucker Center The William Jewett Tucker Center builds relationships and understanding across identities, engages in dialogue on meaningful issues, promotes interfaith exchanges, and cultivates spiritual and ethical lives that will make a profound difference on campus and beyond. Office of Pluralism and Leadership (OPAL) OPAL engages students in identity, community, and leadership development. It provides academic and sociocultural advising, designs and facilitates educational programs, and serves as advocates for all students and communities. Office of Institutional Diversity and Equity (IDE) IDE provides resources and creates partnerships across Dartmouth that promote an accessible and inclusive working environment. IDE also hosts evocative films, speakers, and community-building programs. Living Learning Communities Our Living Learning Communities make residence hall living a microcosm of the Dartmouth experience. Each community integrates a specific theme into a world-class teaching and learning environment with a vibrant sense of community, all guided and supported through engagement with expert faculty and staff. Native American Program (NAP) The Native American Program provides student support services to Native undergraduate students through one-on-one advising sessions and collaborations with Dartmouth faculty, staff, and tribal communities across North America. Dartmouth College, one of the original nine chartered colonial colleges of America, was founded in 1769 on traditional, unceded Abenaki land along the Connecticut River in New Hampshire. Its founder, The Rev. Eleazar Wheelock, was joined by The Rev. Samson Occom, an ordained minister of the Mohegan Tribe, to dedicate the new school to educating Native American students. To build and sustain a new college in the wilderness, Rev. Wheelock made use of the uncompensated labor of his enslaved men and women of African descent. Later funding for the College came from private sources tied to profits from the Atlantic slave trade. After the founding years, the initial vision to educate Native students gave way to an exclusive focus on young men of European descent. The first class of four white men graduated in 1771 to mark the beginning of Dartmouth's distinction as the only colonial college to conduct its educational mission without interruption through the American Revolution to the present. To the undergraduates' numbers were added students of African descent, who were admitted continuously beginning in 1824, four decades before other Ivy League institutions followed suit. In 1972, the College began the transition to full coeducation. Two years earlier, Dartmouth had revived its founding commitment to Native American students. The Indigenous community is now a visible and valued presence on Dartmouth's campus, with students from more than 70 tribal nations and communities. The legacy of Dartmouth's mission has expanded to foster an inclusive and vibrant college community—with four thriving graduate and professional schools—that embrace principles of equity for all peoples of this diverse world. Big Green News Feed All News Stories Powwow Marks Golden Anniversary Chloe Poston Joins IDE Video: Meet Shontay Delalue, the Inaugural SVP/Senior Diversity Officer Delalue officially started in the role on July 1. Featured on our Blog Visit the blog Join us for a interview with Dartmouth's new Senior Associate Director of Admissions! Read More Interview with New Senior Director of Admissions, Gregory Chery Love Tsai 2023 Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback