Skip to main content Main Menu Yale WHY Learning at Yale A Liberal Arts Education Majors & Academic Programs Teaching & Advising Undergraduate Research International Experiences Science & Engineering Faculty Features Living at Yale Residential Colleges The Campus New Haven Being & Belonging Extracurriculars Identity, Culture, Faith Multicultural Open House Virtual Tour & Blogs Virtual Tour Bulldogs' Blogs APPLY Application Process First-Year Applicants International First-Year Applicants QuestBridge First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Eli Whitney: Nontraditional Applicants Non-Degree & Alumni Auditing Applicants Military Veteran Applicants Advice to Candidates What Yale Looks For Putting Together Your Application Selecting High School Courses Application FAQs First-Generation College Applicants Choosing Where to Apply COVID-19 Information Inside the Yale Admissions Office Podcast Visit & Connect Visit Campus Virtual Events Virtual Tour Connect With Yale Admissions Affordability The Basics The Details Estimate Your Cost QuestBridge Search form Search this site Yale has extended the test-optional policy for first-year and transfer applicants in the 2022-23 admissions cycle. Review Yale’s current policy on standardized testing. Close First-Year Application Process This site will guide you through the process of applying to Yale. Everything you need to know is right here. Before you begin exploring the detailed instructions and application components, deadlines, and frequently asked questions about applying, here are a few things you should know: Yale welcomes applicants from all backgrounds. The Admissions Committee seeks students with the potential to add to the Yale community and take advantage of the extraordinary opportunities available here. Yale evaluates applications without regard to a student’s citizenship or immigration status, and all students are eligible for Yale’s need-based financial aid. These policies include undocumented students living in the US, whether they hold DACA status or not. Future Yale students will come from public and private schools, from very small towns and great urban centers, and from every corner of the world. Yale receives more applications from highly accomplished students than there are spaces in the first-year class. The Admissions Committee’s difficult yet fascinating and rewarding job is to select that class. Spend some time reviewing What Yale Looks For and Advice on Putting Together Your Application to understand how admissions officers review applications, then follow the links to the right to get started on yours. In This Section First-Year Application Process Application Instructions & Components Application Deadlines Standardized Testing Interviews Essay Topics Supplementary Materials Applying to Yale College FAQs Yale Admissions Status Portal Application Process News & Notes Related Links What Yale Looks For Single-Choice Early Action Yale Facts QuestBridge Program Profile of the Class (PDF) Home-schooled Applicants International First-Year Applicants For Counselors Yale College Undergraduate Admissions Home Contact Us FAQs For Counselors For Parents Accessibility at Yale YouTube Instagram Twitter Facebook Copyright ©2022 Yale University. All rights reserved