Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Experience Dartmouth Virtually and In-Person Visiting Dartmouth in: Spring Click to Open Fall Winter Spring Summer Back to top chevrons up Experience Dartmouth Virtually and In-Person Check out our virtual and in-person visit opportunities below. . Live Campus Tour Virtual campus tours (60 minutes) feature current students presenting our beautiful campus via Zoom. You will have the opportunity to ask questions in real-time and hear about student experiences at Dartmouth from the comfort of your own home. In-person campus tours (60 minutes) will be offered throughout the week. Pre-registration is required. Register Now Information Sessions Virtual information sessions (45 minutes) feature a member of our Admissions Office, current students, and live Q&A. Engage in a conversation about what makes Dartmouth Dartmouth: its place, its people, and its program. Register now Pre-Recorded Tours Check out our pre-recorded campus tours led by current students, in addition to self-guided tours of the main campus, the Hood Museum of Art, Thayer School of Engineering, and our athletics facilities. Learn More Connect with a Student Explore the profiles of our admissions ambassadors and email them with any questions. Connect Read 3D Magazine Take a look inside 3D, Dartmouth's undergraduate admissions magazine, for stories about Dartmouth's faculty and students who learn together in a vibrant community framed by nature. Read 3D Follow us on Social Media Wherever you are in the world, you can keep up with what's going on at Dartmouth. Watch the experience unfold on Instagram or YouTube by following @dartmouthadmissions. Follow Us Read our Student Blog There’s no one Dartmouth story. Our blog, People Places Pines, is here to share the lives of Dartmouth students — and offer a little admissions advice along the way. Read Now Take the next step! Scholars Who TeachClass of 2026 Applicants'The Search' Podcast Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback