Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Undergraduate Admissions click to open About Dartmouth Values History & Traditions Campus Commitment to Diversity Alumni & Outcomes Dartmouth's Global Impact Our Town: Hanover, NH Security & Fire Safety Report Academics Areas of Study Scholars Who Teach Academic Resources Custom Majors Flexible Study Plan Internships Research Study Around the World Life at Dartmouth Student Groups & Activities Athletics & Recreation Housing & Dining Service Sustainability Student Resources Visit Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Dartmouth Comes to You College Access Programs Summer Series Apply Apply to Dartmouth Universal Need-Blind Policy Class of 2027 Applicants Admissions FAQ's Admissions Glossary Admitted Students International Students Check Your Application Gap Year Class Profile & Testing Counselors Summer Term for College Students The Admissions Team Dean Lee Coffin Afford Apply for Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Cost Financial Aid FAQ's Financial Aid Glossary How Aid Works Message from the Director Types of Financial Aid Follow The Search Podcast 3D Magazine Admissions Blog Request Information Dartmouth Social Media Publications Video Admissions Beat Podcast Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Facebook Visit us on YouTube Search form Search Go Click to Open Dartmouth Admissions Dartmouth in a Word Created with Sketch. Dartmouth in a Word? Passion Impactful Experiential Sustainable Green PassionImpactfulExperientialSustainableGreen Messages for Visitors and Applicants Dartmouth Announces Universal Need-Blind Admissions Policy Experience Dartmouth: Spring 2022 Update We will be offering virtual and in-person visit opportunities throughout the Spring Term. People Places Pines More Blog Posts All Click to Open All Academics & Research Campus Life Winter Choose your own Category Click to Open Admissions Adventures Abroad Aid & Affordability Arts Athletics Fall Hanover & The Upper Valley Humanities International Students Internships Meet the Bloggers STEM Social Life Social Sciences Spring Summer Traditions With a max word count of 100, my cursor blinked mockingly at me. I already knew I wanted to attend Dartmouth, and I knew why—I wanted the small tight-knit community, the beautiful campus, and most importantly, the vibe that campus radiated to me. Read More Why Dartmouth? Luke Grayson 2025 A Letter to Freshman Year With freshman year coming to a close, I wrote a Thank You note to one of the best years! Read More Caroline York 2025 Goodbye, 22S Happy last week of classes! Here are some of my reflections from my junior spring. Read More Love Tsai 2023 Spring Term Classes As my first spring term at Dartmouth gradually comes to an end, I'd love to share the classes I've taken and learned to love this term. Read More Chidera Duru 2025 Greenkey: dancing in a field to internationally famous mucisians in Hanover! Dartmouth has too many traditions to name, but Greenkey is one of the best ones! Read on to find out about my experience this year! Read More Luke Grayson 2025 Taking my Professor to Lunch! Here's a reflection on my experience taking my computer science professor out for a free meal paid for by the school! Read More Jack Heaphy 2024 Freshman Year: A Retrospective A look back at my first year at Dartmouth! Read More Brandon Mioduszewski 2025 Work Hard, Play Hard: A Green Key Weekend at Dartmouth! After two years, Dartmouth's annual spring festival, known affectionately as Green Key, occurred this weekend! The weekend held many events, but even so, I saw the Dartmouth culture of work hard, play hard. Read More Tulio Huggins 2023 Saint Motel Meets Hanover: Green Key 2022! As the 23s, 24s, and 25s shared our first Green Key together, Dartmouth ended up bringing my middle-school self's favorite band to campus: here's how my Green Key went! Read More Gabriel Gilbert 2023 Alumni Interview I sat down with my friend, Ali '20, who conducts interviews, to gain some insight into what students should expect for the interviews. Read More Caroline York 2025 Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Yes. You can afford Dartmouth. 100 Percent of demonstrated financial need met, no matter who you are or where you're from.How Financial Aid Works Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Read 3D Magazine 3D is Dartmouth's undergraduate admissions magazine, celebrating a vibrant community framed by nature, with challenging and welcoming professors, an adventurous and friendly student body, and a rigorous yet flexible liberal arts curriculum. Get on our mailing list to receive future issues.Read the Current IssueGet On Our Mailing List A 360-Degree Education For Dartmouth professors, teaching is a passion, a calling, a way of life. Mentorship is instinctive, one of the most rewarding aspects of their scholarship. Dartmouth faculty members are also pioneering researchers and influential thought-leaders. Their work with students helps them advance the frontier of knowledge and helps students advance their careers. Dartmouth classrooms are interactive, collaborative, discussion-based environments. Areas of StudyScholars Who Teach Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. Mary Flanagan Sherman Fairchild Distinguished Professor in Digital Humanities "Games are broadly interdisciplinary. They encompass computer science, psychology, sociology, music, art, neuroscience, and more. They're what the liberal arts are all about. We teach our students to think across disciplines. They develop their ability to attack problems, ask productive questions, and invent fresh solutions." Learn More About Humanities Programs Vaughn Booker Assistant Professor of Religion and African and African American Studies "I help students understand that racial identity and religious belonging have never remained unchanging in American history. To comprehend religion and race, students must account for histories of nuance, according to region, age, class, gender, sexuality, ethnicity, and enslaved/free/citizenship status." Learn More About Interdisciplinary Programs Lisa Baldez Professor of Government, and of Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies "My research examines the extent to which formal institutional rules shape the possibilities for achieving gender inequality. I focus on human rights treaties, specifically the United Nations convention to Eliminate All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, gender quota laws, and the Equal Rights Amendment." Learn More About Interdisciplinary Programs William Cheng Associate Professor of Music "I work at the intersection of sound and justice. By lending an ear to imperatives of care and accessibility, I engage questions about vulnerability, solidarity, and survivability of humans and humanity in late-capitalist environments. My research asks how music and musicians can help us answer these questions." Learn More About Arts and Performing Arts Programs Vicki May Associate Professor of Engineering "Many years ago, architects and engineers were the same thing—master builders. The field of engineering has become increasingly specialized, especially at schools and in some companies. That has made the field more narrow and scientific. But I think science and engineering should be about discovery." Learn More About Engineering Programs Nicola Camerlenghi Associate Professor of Art History "Dialogue and conversation about the architecture brings it alive, both for me and the students. This stuff is more than just an image on a screen. Making it part of a bigger discussion about Rome, about what buildings do--that's been personally rewarding for me." Learn More About Arts and Performing Arts Programs Icon/Right Angle Created with Sketch. The Search Podcast Season Two: Listen Now Basecamp to the World Select a Map Click to Open Academic Off-Campus Programs View Locations List 60% of students study off campus Measure glaciers in Antarctica with climate-change scientists. Perform with a renowned theater group at Kings College London. Study the Maori language in New Zealand. Arranged through Dartmouth's Frank J. Guarini Institute for International Education, these powerful learning experiences are enhanced through faculty mentorship. Start Here Click to stop viewing map. View Map Big Green News Feed All News Stories HackDartmouth Draws 80 Students Seeking Tech Solutions Social Justice Award Winners Announced Goldwater Awards Help Five Juniors Pursue Research A profound sense of place. Virtual TourVirtual Information SessionContact A Student Apply Connect With Dartmouth Admissions Instagram Facebook YouTube Experience Dartmouth Connect with a Student Areas of Study Admissions Blog Admissions FAQs Class of 2026 Applicants Check Your Application Financial Aid Apply for Aid Estimate Your Cost Cost of Attendance My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback