Skip to main content Enrollment Management and Services Undergraduate Admissions Menu Close Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover Discover Digital Viewbook Majors and Minors Academics Campus Life High-Impact Experiences Preprofessional Programs Career Development Graduate and Accelerated Programs Afford Afford Visit Visit Virtual Tour Schedule Your Visit Group Visits Parking and Directions Admissions Events Discover Raleigh, NC Apply Apply Admissions Fast Facts Dates and Deadlines Credit Opportunities First-Year Transfer International Early College Military 2-yr Agricultural Institute wolfPAW Admitted Students Admitted Students Connect With Us Connect With Us Let Us Know You’re Interested Frequently Asked Questions Discover NC State is a leading research university that prepares bright minds for lifelong success. Wherever you’re headed, we'll help you get there. Think and Do At NC State University, we pair passion with purposeful action. And our students aren’t afraid to get their hands dirty tackling the major challenges that face our world. That’s why our motto is “Think and Do.” Here, you’ll go beyond the classroom to gain real experience — and you’ll graduate ready to take on whatever comes next. See Yourself at NC State Academics Experiences Community Raleigh Choosing Your Major NC State is home to 12 colleges covering all major academic disciplines. We excel in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). And we’re at the forefront of teaching and research in agriculture, business, design, education, humanities and social sciences, natural resources, textiles, and veterinary medicine. No matter what you’re passionate about, we’ll help you chart your course and follow it. 100+ Majors 120+ Minors 12 Colleges Tips for Selecting a Major When you apply to NC State, you’ll be asked to choose your preference for a major (or two). Browse the Options We’ve got everything from accounting to zoology. Explore our full list of majors and minors. You should select two different majors based on your interests. If we determine you’re not competitive for your first-choice major, you’ll be reviewed based on your second-choice major. If you’re interested in pursuing more than one major or adding a minor, you’ll have the opportunity to speak with your academic advisor about this process once you begin classes. We admit students directly into the college that houses their major, which means you won’t have to apply again later in your academic career. *Transfer applicants will select only a first-choice major. Our Colleges Begin your academic journey in one of our renowned colleges, where programs range from fashion and textile design to crop and soil sciences. Looking to mix and match? Students have the opportunity to double major or add minors across colleges. No need to apply at the college level, though. All application decisions are made through our Undergraduate Admissions office. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Design College of Education College of Engineering College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Resources Poole College of Management College of Sciences Wilson College of Textiles University College The Graduate School College of Veterinary Medicine Academics Discovery lies around every corner of our campus, so you won’t be limited to just one college, program or course of study. Get a flexible education that you can tailor to your interests — or even spark new passions. First-Year Programs If you’re a first-year applicant, you’ll have the chance to explore your options. Students in our first-year programs get their feet wet with common courses and work closely with academic advisors who guide them through the major selection process. You can select one of the programs below on your application. Engineering First Year: Scout out the program that best suits your interests and talents among the College of Engineering’s 16 majors. Environmental First Year: Explore real-world grand challenges while discovering which environmental major is right for you. Exploratory Studies: If you’re not sure where to start, our Exploratory Studies program lets you delve into 100+ major options at NC State. Life Sciences First Year: Find your fit among seven life sciences majors across two colleges, ranging from biological sciences to plant biology. Management First Year: Get an introduction to Poole College of Management’s three majors: accounting, business administration and economics. Honors and Scholars Program Many universities house their honors and scholars programs in a separate college. Here, they’re a way to enhance your already expansive education. So you’re open to pursue whatever drives you — while still engaging in next-level opportunities alongside expert faculty and bright peers. Students in our University Honors and Scholars program conduct cutting-edge research, publish their work and present at national conferences, lead cultural and outdoor exploration trips, and even live and study together in their own village community. First-year students interested in this program should apply by our early action deadline of November 1 for priority consideration. Find out more Mix And Match Design Meets Biomechanics Alyssa Cox is uniting her two passions to find a career in athletic apparel and footwear innovation. Entrepreneurship Goes Global Jeyashree Haridoss paired interests in business and global cultures through a dual-degree program that included studying abroad. Campus Life Student Life Ready to call our campus home? See how you’ll live, grow and thrive here. We’re the largest public institution in North Carolina — but our university is filled with opportunities to make a big campus feel smaller. The Wolfpack is a welcoming, diverse community where you’re bound to find like-minded peers and future friends. We’ve got four campus community centers and over 600 student organizations that cover academics, service, club sports and more. During your time here, you’ll also discover new traditions like our calorie-dense dash, the Krispy Kreme Challenge, and our student-run fashion show, Art2Wear. You’ll spend time in our cherished Hallowed Places. And you’ll walk away with memories that last a lifetime. 630+ Student Organizations There’s a community waiting for you on our campus. Find your Wolfpack High-Impact Experiences We believe learning doesn’t just happen in lecture halls. Here, students learn by doing. Collect samples in the lab. Research in the wilderness. Grow your startup. Pack up for an adventure abroad. No matter what you choose, you’ll walk away with unforgettable insights — and be prepared to hit the ground running in the real world. Undergraduate Research 151 Student Research Projects were funded in the 2019-2020 academic year. Research is a part of each undergraduate’s experience at NC State, and you’ll be encouraged to jump in as soon as your first year. We offer opportunities across every discipline — including STEM, humanities, design and more. And our students get to work developing solutions to pressing problems ranging from infectious diseases to sustainability. Study Abroad 200+ Study Abroad Programs spanning dozens of countries Going overseas gives you international exposure and helps to bring textbooks and classroom lessons to life. At NC State, you can choose from more than 200 study abroad programs. Pursue marine science at the Great Barrier Reef, study architecture at our European Center in Prague or explore environmental sciences beneath the canopy of the Amazon rain forest — all without delaying graduation. Entrepreneurship #1 Undergraduate Entrepreneurship Program in the Southeast according to Princeton Review The entrepreneurial spirit is contagious here. If you’re ready to chase your next great idea, we’ve got the tools and resources to help. Work alongside faculty and startup leaders — and even build your own prototypes — in innovative hubs like our Entrepreneurship Clinic and Entrepreneurship Garage. Live alongside inventive peers in our entrepreneurship-focused village community. Get straight to creating in one of several makerspaces and coworking spots located right on our campus. Develop valuable connections with invested alumni and community members that will last beyond graduation. Leadership and Service 9,800+ Service Hours performed across 300 Alternative Service Break trips in the 2019-2020 academic year. Our university was founded with a mission to give back to the world around us. For decades, we’ve worked to shape bold leaders who do just that. Across campus, you’ll find leadership development workshops and programs that build students’ confidence and ready them to create positive, inclusive change. You’ll also uncover endless ways to serve your community — from our on-campus food pantry to our alternative spring break trips. Working From Home Meets Study Abroad Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, sophomore Andrew Berley got to work addressing world hunger through a virtual internship project based in Beijing, China. Get to know him Preprofessional Programs Do you see medical school, law school or veterinary school in your future? You’ll build a strong foundation right here. How We Cultivate Competitive Candidates Preprofessional Advising: Our dedicated pre-law, pre-health and pre-vet advisors can assist with prerequisite course selection, help with application materials, offer interview tips and more. Career Fairs: Build connections through career fairs, including our Health Professions Fair and our Law School and Graduate Programs Fair, that bring in representatives from leading medical and law schools across the country. Student Organizations: Go the extra mile toward your professional degree by getting involved with student organizations like the Pre-Law Students’ Association, Pre-Health Club, VetPAC and more. #4 Vet Med Program Nationally U.S. News & World Report #20 STEM College in America Forbes Hoping to Become a Lawyer or a Doctor? There’s no single undergraduate path that you need to follow to get there. Rather, top schools seek out standout applicants who will bring unique academic experiences and an interdisciplinary background. Even though NC State does not have a law school or a medical school, any major here can prepare you for the next step in your career. You’ll benefit from a truly customizable education that can be built around your goals (and the prerequisites of your desired future program). And you’ll have access to tailored advising, resources and hands-on opportunities that will set you up for success. Prepare for law school Prepare for a health profession Hoping to Become a Veterinarian? We offer leading-edge programs in animal science, biological sciences and more, along with a veterinary bioscience concentration that covers the prerequisites you’ll need for veterinary school. What’s more, NC State is home to one of the top veterinary programs in the nation — and a 250-acre biomedical campus that includes expansive outdoor teaching labs. Prepare for veterinary school Take a Trip to Our Campus Visit NC State Career Development We’re known for producing real-world-ready graduates. Take advantage of our resources to get a head start on your career — and get the hands-on training you need to grab attention in a competitive workforce. Career Development Center $54,700+ average starting salary for our undergraduates Our Career Development Center is filled with skilled staff who will work with you to map out your career path, review your resume and cover letter, conduct mock interviews, and support you in anything else you need to achieve your professional goals. Students can team up with our career counselors as soon as they arrive on campus, and many academic colleges have their own career development resources, too. Career Fairs Every year, we bring leading employers to our campus by the hundreds through our career fairs and events. In fact, our Engineering Career Fair is the largest of its kind on the East Coast. Top recruiters seek out NC State students because they know they can rely on our Wolfpack when there’s a job to be done. And you can begin making meaningful contacts from day one. Internship and Co-op Opportunities Get assistance in landing everything from internships to co-ops to entry-level positions. Our online job portal, ePACK, connects students with job openings and upcoming recruitment events. Plus, our innovative Centennial Campus puts you within steps of employers ready to offer on-the-job experience. An added bonus? Many majors across the university will give course credit for your internship. We’ve also got one of the largest cooperative education programs in the state, where students put their knowledge into practice as they alternate semesters of full-time study and full-time work. #15 for Internships among public universities, according to Princeton Review $22 Per Hour earned on average by our co-op participants Companies worldwide seek out our grads, including: IBM Bank of America Cisco Smithfield SAS Lenovo Duke Energy Ernst & Young Deloitte Alumni Network #13 Best Public School Alumni Network Princeton Review The NC State Alumni Association is more than 20,000 members strong and our graduates share deep pride in their roots with the Pack. Even as a student, you’ll get the chance to network with engaged, successful alums in North Carolina and throughout the globe. Meet mentors, get valuable academic and career advice — and reap the rewards during your job search. Alumni Success Clay Chaney ’19 As a child, Chaney loved watching meteorologists. Now, thanks to his opportunity to attend NC State, he is one himself. Jackie Yanchocik ’12 Since graduating with a degree in communication, Yanchocik has explored industries including sports, entertainment and education. Graduate and Accelerated Programs Your education doesn’t have to stop with your undergraduate degree. Our Graduate School offers nationally recognized master’s and Ph.D. programs — or we can prepare you to further your education somewhere else. 160 Master’s Programs Explore them 62 Doctoral Programs Find a program We also have programs that allow exceptional undergraduate students to complete the requirements for both their bachelor’s and master’s degrees at an accelerated pace. So how do you get started? After you arrive here — generally in your junior year — you’ll connect with your academic advisor to discuss your options and get a helping hand with your application. Apply to NC State Think our university could be your perfect fit? Find out everything you need to know about our admissions process. Start your journey Undergraduate Admissions Home NC State University Campus Box 7103 Raleigh, NC 27695-7103 Phone: 919.515.2434 Fax: 919.515.5039 wolfPAW Admissions Fast Facts Frequently Asked Questions Privacy Campus Safety Net Price Calculator I’m Interested Virtual Tour High School Counselors Transfer Advisors Pre-College Programs Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.