Search: Search News Institutions Regents Administration Offices Get Involved Home Member Groups Membership Lists Member Spotlights Contact Information Give to a UT Institution Chancellor's Council Annual Meeting and Symposium Member Groups Chancellor's Council Executive Committee Ashbel Smith Circle 1881 Society Chancellor's Centurions Membership Listings Member Spotlights Contact Us 2021-2022 Chancellor's Council Chair Richard Hill with wife Rae Member Spotlight The Auler family spans four successive UT generations and through their family endowments are giving it forward - providing funds in perpetuity for the next generation. Read more about the Aulers. Read about other UT System supporters. The Chancellor’s Council is a group of dedicated supporters and friends of UT institutions. Founded in 1965 by the UT System Board of Regents and Development Board leaders, the Chancellor’s Council recognizes major contributors and encourages continuous public and private support of Texas higher education. At more than 20,000-strong, members of the Chancellor’s Council represent 165 counties across Texas, all 50 states and 21 countries. Each of these members shares the important role of serving as advocates for higher education and health care. For over half a century, the Chancellor’s Council has served to recognize and pay tribute to alumni and friends for their generosity to one or more of the UT System institutions and to encourage continued involvement. Programs & Activities Chancellor’s Council members are invited to attend the Annual Meeting & Symposium held each spring, usually in late April or the first Friday in May, which includes the Chancellor's “State of the System” address and features presentations that focus on innovative programs and dynamic works at UT institutions. Visit the Chancellor's Council Annual Meeting & Symposium website to learn more about past meetings. Members may also receive special invitations to events with the Chancellor and key administrators, including opportunities to attend enriching activities both on and off campuses. Communications Chancellor's Council members receive frequent communications about UT System news and events through publications, periodic mailings, e-newsletters and other personal communications. If you are interested in receiving communications from the Chancellor, you may subscribe by sending an email to chancellorscouncil@utsystem.edu. Become a Chancellor's Council Member Individuals become members of the Chancellor’s Council when they have made cumulative outright gifts of $10,000 or more or a minimum of $15,000 in planned gifts to one or more of the University of Texas institutions or the UT System. If you are already a Chancellor's Council member and are interested in serving on the Chancellor's Council Executive Committee or would like to nominate someone you know, please complete and submit an application that will then be submitted to the CCEC Nominations Committee. If you have any questions, please contact us at (512) 499-4204 or by email at chancellorscouncil@utsystem.edu. Academic Institutions UT Arlington UT Austin UT Dallas UT El Paso UT Permian Basin UT Rio Grande Valley UT San Antonio UT Tyler Health Institutions UT Southwestern Medical Center UT Medical Branch at Galveston UT Health Science Center at Houston UT Health Science Center at San Antonio UT MD Anderson Cancer Center Leadership Office of the Chancellor Board of Regents Administration Offices Directory Careers UT System Directory Policy Library Regents' Rules & Regulations Privacy Policy Accessibility Open Records State Links Fraud Reporting State of Texas Texas Veterans Portal © The University of Texas System. 210 West 7th Street, Austin, Texas 78701. (512) 499-4777