Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Research Office » Oregon State University Advantage Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About IP & Licensing Industry Research Agreements Advantage Accelerator Innovation Impact ATAMI About IP & Licensing Industry Research Agreements Advantage Accelerator Innovation Impact ATAMI Innovation, Economic, & Societal Impact Internally, the OSU Advantage team brings together unparalleled, holistic resources and activities to maximize OSU’s impact. We: Offer and connect to a wide range of resources supporting innovation and entrepreneurship Develop intellectual property protection strategies Support the development of high-growth companies through tailored programing and aligned funding Execute research, confidentiality, material transfer, licensing, and other industry agreements Provide access to unique tooling and development opportunities aligned with advanced technologies and manufacturing. Learn More Learn about Innovation & Entrepreneurial Resources I have an idea – Submit an Invention Learn more about Intellectual Property Access OSU’s IP Policy, Procedures, and Regulations Transform your Idea into a Startup Company Learn about Industry Research Contracting Models Request a Confidentiality or Material Transfer Agreement Access Advanced Technologies and Manufacturing Institute Resources For External Partners OSU is a leading driver, resource and steward for a strategic innovation economy in Oregon and beyond. The OSU Advantage is your link to access innovation, connect with emerging startups, and execute research, testing, and service agreements that can help drive bottom-line business success and solve problems. You will realize a great return on your investment. That's the advantage of working with Oregon State University. Learn More Current News OSU Looks At Turning Fruit Waste Into Plastic (Pacific NW AG Network) Researchers at Oregon State University are working on ways to turn the waste from apples and other fruits into packaging materials to replace plastic. Green Hydrogen Production Could Benefit from Oregon State Research (OPB) Researchers at Oregon State University say they have developed a breakthrough that could make hydrogen energy more affordable. The research uses a catalyst to make green hydrogen production more affordable and accessible. BP Energy Puts $30 Million Into Onboard Dynamics (WSJ PRO) BP Energy Partners is looking to capitalize on increased efforts to curb methane emissions with a recent growth investment in Onboard Dynamics LLC. Onboard was born at Oregon State University with funding from the U.S. Energy Department. JSR Corp. buys Corvallis-based Inpria for $514M (Business Journals, Portland Inno) Corvallis-based materials startup Inpria Corp., which is an OSU spinout, is being acquired by JSR Corp, one of the company’s strategic partners and investors. All Stories Contact Info Oregon State University Advantage Oregon State University A312 Kerr Administration Building Corvallis, OR 97331 Phone 541-737-3888 Fax 541-737-9041 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer