Skip to Main Content Toggle Menu about login my profile register Open Site Search Get Involved Events Alumni Clubs Regional Alumni Program Young Alumni Parents Volunteer Opportunities Hall Hub Connect My Account Alumni Directory News and Publications Social Networks Pirate Pride Alumni Games Famous People of Seton Hall Support SHU Giving Opportunities Why Give Ways to Give Corporations and Foundations Gift Planning Gratitude and Recognition Make a Gift Benefits Campus Services Career Services Alumni Discounts Alumni Card and Account Transcripts Webinars Real Estate Assistance Program Quick Links Event Calendar Pirate Pride Catholic Tradition Young Alumni Athletics Seton Hall Home Make a Gift Search: Search Get Involved Events Alumni Clubs Regional Alumni Program Young Alumni Parents Volunteer Opportunities Hall Hub Connect My Account Alumni Directory News and Publications Social Networks Pirate Pride Alumni Games Famous People of Seton Hall Support SHU Giving Opportunities Why Give Ways to Give Corporations and Foundations Gift Planning Gratitude and Recognition Make a Gift Benefits Campus Services Career Services Alumni Discounts Alumni Card and Account Transcripts Webinars Real Estate Assistance Program Quick Links Event Calendar Pirate Pride Catholic Tradition Young Alumni Athletics Seton Hall Home Make a Gift Giving Day 2022 Thank you for coming Hall Together to make this year the biggest Giving Day yet! Over 2,000 Pirates came together to raise nearly $900,000! Read more » Make a Gift Attend Events Volunteer This is What Great Minds Can Do Upcoming Events All Events 6/11/2022 at 4 p.m. 37th Annual Young Alumni Reunion Join hundreds of your fellow Pirates down the shore for the 37th Annual Young Alumni Summer Reunion! Details 6/23/2022 at 6 p.m. Young Alumni Bowling Night Kick off your weekend by joining your fellow Pirates at Bowlero bowling alley for a night filled with fun and games! Details 6/27/2022 Stillman School of Business Alumni Gathering Join Stillman alumni at our annual summer gathering in Morristown, NJ! Registration coming soon. Details 48,160 Sq. Ft. of Renovations and Additions 24-Hour Access, with Late-Night Accessibility 176 Seats Revamped Theater-in-the-Round 500 Large Event Space Capacity Leave your legacy. Make your mark. Donors like you help to make a difference every day. $100 $250 $500 $1000 Continue SHU Alumni in the News More News 5/3/2022 The O’Brien Family Commits $1 Million Towards University Center Renovation Alumnus and His Family Commit $1 Million towards Renovations of the 60-Year-Old Student Building. Read More 4/29/2022 Fifth Annual Giving Day Exceeds Goal, Raising Over $897,000 The Seton Hall community unites "Hall Together," achieving Giving Day history by exceeding its goal of 1,856 donors and raising over $896,000 from over 2,000 donors! Read More 4/5/2022 New Alumni Board of Directors President Announced The Department of Alumni Engagement and Philanthropy is proud to announce the newest Alumni Board of Directors president. She will begin her term on July 1, 2022. Read More Alumni Resources Clubs and Chapters Campus Services Benefits and Discounts Merchandise Webinars Career Services Diplomas Transcripts Weddings in the Chapel Pirate Appearances SHU.edu Get Involved Events Alumni Clubs Regional Alumni Program Young Alumni Parents Volunteer Opportunities Hall Hub Connect My Account Alumni Directory News and Publications Social Networks Pirate Pride Alumni Games Famous People of Seton Hall Support SHU Giving Opportunities Why Give Ways to Give Corporations and Foundations Gift Planning Gratitude and Recognition Make a Gift Benefits Campus Services Career Services Alumni Discounts Alumni Card and Account Transcripts Webinars Real Estate Assistance Program facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram Make a Gift Seton Hall University | 400 South Orange Avenue | South Orange, NJ 07079 | (973) 761-9000 Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility