Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside University Advancement Search Home Alumni Alumni Staff Development Development Staff University Communications University Communications Staff Advancement Administration Advancement Administration Staff Working in Advancement University Advancement Breadcrumb ABOUT UNIVERSITY ADVANCEMENT The UC Riverside University Advancement team raises public awareness of UCR's excellence in research, teaching and service. UA encourages, promotes, and secures public and private resources to support: Recruitment and retention of world-class faculty. High-quality education for the best and brightest students who are reflective of California's diverse population. Leading-edge facilities and equipment necessary for inquiry and the creation of knowledge for the 21st century and beyond. ABOUT OUR INTERIM VICE CHANCELLOR Interim Vice Chancellor Johnny Cruz Johnny Cruz is interim vice chancellor for University Advancement, overseeing development, alumni relations, university communications, and advancement finance and administration. In his permanent role as associate vice chancellor and chief communications and marketing officer, he leads the team responsible for brand advancement, public relations, enrollment marketing, creative services, content development, publications, executive communications, digital marketing, video production, and social media. He joined UC Riverside from World Vision, where he was responsible for telling the global humanitarian organization's story through media and public relations, campaigns, advocacy communications, celebrity engagement, emergency communications, and influencer relations. Before joining World Vision, he was assistant vice president for communications at the University of Arizona. He also served in various brand management, marketing, and communications roles at the Make-A-Wish national headquarters. Jill Huff Executive Assistant to the Interim Vice Chancellor Cruz Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 4128 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-5203 email: jill.huff@ucr.edu Related Links Advancement Ambassadors Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel