Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Undergraduate Advising Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link History & Mission Contact Us Advising Appointments Select to follow link Undergraduate Advising Center Information Departmental Advising People Select to follow link Professional Staff Graduate Assistant Program Major & Degree Information Select to follow link Major Exploration KU Academic Terminology Majors: Update | Declare | Apply Minors Special Programs & Certificates Enrollment & Schedule Changes Select to follow link Enrollment Enrollment Holds Add/Swap/Drop/Repeat KU Core Jayhawk GPS Credit Information Select to follow link Credit/No Credit Transfer Credits to KU Transfer Credits from KU Academic Calendar Transcript Ordering Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Undergraduate Advising Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Advising Appointments About the Undergraduate Advising Center Helping students explore their major options is what we do best! Schedule an appointment today. We will work alongside you to provide guidance, support, and resources throughout the process! The UAC is dedicated to serving and assisting you with all your advising questions. Staff members regularly monitor their KU email, UAC voicemail, and UAC email during our normal operating hours and are excited to assist you! We always encourage you to schedule an appointment with your advisor at any time! We can help connect you with any resource that you may need and help you navigate your college career! The UAC serves all exploratory and pre-professional students at the University of Kansas. Our advisors operate within the Appreciative Advising model of advising, an intentional collaborative practice of asking positive, open-ended questions that help students optimize their educational experiences and achieve their dreams, goals, and potential (Bloom, Hutson & He, 2008). Appointment Types Semester Planning: 2-year plans Exploring majors Planning ahead for study abroad ROTC 104-R Enrollment/Holds: Scheduling building for upcoming semester Navigating academic holds Enrollment questions Checking degree progress Admissions/Readmission: Professional school applications Admissions to majors Mapping out deadlines Interest in being readmitted Drop-in Topics: Schedule changes (add/drop/swap) Schedule change forms Transferring and/or transfer credits KU Core questions Enroll & Pay Assistance GPA calculations Brief major exploration questions Normal Operating Hours Monday - Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. CST Individual advisor availability does vary. Schedule an Appointment Access Jayhawk GPS. Email your advisor; find your advisor via Jayhawk GPS within "Your Success Team." Email the Undergraduate Advising Center. Contact your departmental advisor. All UAC appointments are held in Central Time Zone either in-person or via Zoom. You will receive a confirmation and reminder email with detailed information and/or the Zoom link. Drop-ins Ready to meet with an advisor now? Drop-in hours are Monday – Friday, 8:00 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. CST. Check-in with the QLess kiosk system. Have a question? Send us a chat. null Frequently Asked Questions Who is my advisor? Click to expand Log in to your Jayhawk GPS portal using your online ID and password. From your home view, you will be able to see your advisor’s name under "Your Success Team" or within the Advisors bar. From the "Your Success Team" area, you can click on the mail icon to email your advisor directly! This is also where you can check your upcoming appointments. They will be listed on the right-hand side of your "Calendar" page. How do I schedule an appointment? Click to expand You are welcome to request a Drop-In appointment, or you may schedule with your advisor. Currently, the UAC is holding all advising appointments via Zoom and/or in-person. All appointments are held in the Central Time Zone (CST), so please pay attention to your time zone when scheduling via Zoom. Notice: Please save your appointment confirmation and reminder emails, as they contain the Zoom link and/or additional information for your appointment. Schedule with your advisor: Log into Jayhawk GPS. Click “Schedule Appointment” on the right side of your Student Home Page under the Jayhawk GPS logo. When prompted, choose "Academic Advising" as your appointment type. Choose the topic that you would like to discuss with your advisor, then click "Next." You will then be prompted to choose the location of the appointment. Notice: If you are already assigned to a specific professional school based on your major, it is likely that professional school will be the only option available. If you are looking to talk about switching your major to something outside of your professional school, it would be best to give us a call at 785-864-2834 and our Peer Advisors will be able to help you! Next, click on the text box that appears to choose your advisor. Then, click “Next.” Once you are redirected, select your preferred time and click "Next." You will be taken to an overview page of your appointment that lists the time, location, advisor and details. Feel free to add extra notes about what you would like to discuss in the "Comments" box. Finally, to schedule the appointment you MUST click the blue "Confirm Appointment" button in the bottom right corner of the overview page. Notice: Without clicking this to confirm, your appointment will not be scheduled! Once you click to confirm the appointment, you should receive an official email confirmation via your KU email. You may double check to see if your appointment has been saved by looking at your calendar under the specific date and time that you selected. How do I view notes from my advisor after an appointment? Click to expand Log into Jayhawk GPS. You will be redirected to the GPS home page that includes your class schedule; there will be three grey tabs at the top each labeled “Class Information,” “Reports,” and “Calendar.” Click the “Reports” tab; you will be redirected to a new page that lists “Appointment Summaries” at the top and “Notes” at the bottom. There will be a table under “Appointment Summaries” that shows appointments scheduled and attended. On the left-hand side of the table under “Details” for each appointment, there will be a blue “View Report” link. Click the "View Report" link and you will be shown any notes the advisor has left for that specific appointment. Notice: Be sure to always check these following an appointment; your advisor often lists links, resources, and any courses that you may have discussed in your appointment. How do I check messages sent to me by my KU Success Team? Click to expand Login to Jayhawk GPS. In the blue, left-side navigation you will see a mail icon; this is where you will find important messages sent by your "KU Success Team." Notice: Messages often will be sent here and to your KU email inbox. For example, if your advisor sends you an email that contains a link to schedule an appointment, you can also find this message here. Various units across campus will send you messages here regarding orientation, enrollment, academic standing terms, and program admission/denial decisions. What should I do to prepare for may appointment (advising checklist)? Click to expand Now that you have scheduled an appointment, here are a few things you and your advisor can do to make the most of your appointment and advising experience. Request a printable version of the advising checklist (.pdf) by emailing advising@ku.edu. Before Your Appointment: Write down some of your questions ahead of time, and set some goals for what you hope to accomplish in the appointment. Run a Degree Progress Report. This highlights what you have completed and what's still needed to earn your major. GPA is also listed. Both are located in your myKU portal. Exploring majors? Be sure to visit the Exploratory Pathways resource, and take the HawkQuest exploratory quiz offered through the University Career Center. Bring your results to your appointment! Login to Enroll & Pay to see if you have any academic holds. If your appointment is about enrollment, go ahead and explore various KU classes! It's great to take ownership of your academics. If your appointment is about probation or completing a SAP appeal, come with all your documents. Check your email! You never know if your advisor will have sent you something to check out before your appointment. You should be checking your KU email several times a day. Set an appointment reminder for yourself. We like to use the entire time you've scheduled to meet! If you miss your appointment, depending on the time of year, you might not be able to reschedule quickly. Think about how your current semester is going. How are your grades? Do you enjoy your classes so far? Why? These are likely some things we will discuss! During Your Appointment: Take notes! Ask Questions! Be honest. We are here to help you navigate KU, your academics, and any challenges and triumphs while you are here. We can only help and celebrate based on information you provide. Set up a follow-up appointment before you leave. Advisors like to see you more than once a semester. Check-ins are great! Make sure you have your advisor’s contact information before you leave. After Your Appointment: Read the note your advisor left in Jayhawk GPS. After every appointment your advisor leaves detailed notes about resources, classes, and anything you may have discussed! Follow-up on all suggested resources. Check your email. Because you should always be doing that, right? We often like to send follow-up information straight to your KU email. It's one of the most important ways we communicate with you. Pro-Tip: Make an "Advising/From my Advisor" folder in your email! That is a good way to stay organized. Where can I find my degree progress report? Click to expand Your degree progress report (DPR) is located in your myKU portal. You can keep track of your degree progression or explore possible majors and their requirements. GPA calculations can also be found via this resource. You are encouraged to view this resource before meeting with your advisor. I don’t have an advisor listed in my portal. How do I know who my advisor is? Click to expand We can solve that for you! Give us a call: 785-864-2834. Can I request an advisor who is not assigned to me? Click to expand Absolutely! Give us a call, and we can set that up for you: 785-864-2834. Summerfield Hall, Room 315 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 advising@ku.edu 785-864-2834 facebook instagram twitter youtube Major Exploration KU Orientation Academic Calendar KU Core Credit Transfer Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.