Skip to content Search Site: Powered by Search Campus: Powered by Search Campus University of Utah COVID-19 Updates The University of Utah Academic Advising Center Undergraduate Studies SearchReveal Menu Appointments Make an Appointment Prepare for Your Appointment Quick Question Advising Advising Topics Explore Majors Transfer Credits PREPARE FOR COLLEGE Academic Standing Graduation Requirements Leave of Absence Registration Holds AP & IB Credits Advising Programs Academic Standards Major Exploration Program MILESTONE Advising Orientation Peer ADVISING PreProfessional Advising Transfer Program Tools Majors, Minors, Certificates - Quick Looks GPA Calculator Events Courses Degree Audit Release of Information (FERPA) Student Resources Video Guides About Find Us Staff & Advisors Mission & Values Annual Report UAAC More... Reveal Menu Main Navigation Main Menu Home Appointments Make an Appointment Prepare for an Appointment Quick Question Advising Advising Topics Explore Majors Transfer Credits Prepare for College Academic Standing Graduation Requirements Leave of Absence Registration Holds AP & IB Credits Academic Standards Academic Standards Home Academic Standing Definitions Calculate your GPA FAQ Academic Success Workshop Major Exploration Program Major Exploration Program Home Majors, Minors & Certificates Connect with an Advisor How to Choose a Major Milestone Advising Milestone Advising Home First Year Second Year Undeclared Info for Advisors Orientation New Student Orientation Video Guides Peer Advising PreProfessional Advising Transfer Program Transfer Program Home Transfer Process Transfer your Credits When to Transfer FAQ SLCC Students Tools Majors, Minors & Certificates GPA Calculator Events Courses Degree Audit Release of Information (FERPA) Student Resources Video Guides About Find Us Staff & Advisors Annual Report Mission & Values UAAC Home Major Exploration Program Current Page: Majors, Minors & Certificates Undergraduate Majors, Minors & Certificates How to Choose a Major Colleges All College of Architecture + Planning College of Education College of Engineering College of Fine Arts College of Health College of Humanities College of Mines and Earth Sciences College of Nursing College of Science College of Social and Behavioral Science College of Social Work David Eccles School of Business Honors College School of Cultural and Social Transformation School of Medicine Undergraduate Studies Interests All Arts & Performance Behavior & Education Building & Design Computers & Technology Energy & Environment Health & Medicine History & Literature Language & Human Culture Law & Public Service Management & Entrepreneurship Marketing & Communication Math & Sciences Social Justice & Advocacy Major Flexibility All Sequential Moderately Sequential Flexible Majors Minors Certificates All Majors, Minors and Certificates Major Accounting This degree prepares students to engage in financial management, business transaction tracking and merger-and-acquisition tracking to adapt to a constantly evolving field. about AccountingLearn More about Accounting Minor Advanced Financial Analysis With the Advanced Financial Analysis Minor, you will gain a deep foundation in finance and accounting and develop skills required for careers in the private, public or government sectors. about Advanced Financial AnalysisLearn More about Advanced Financial Analysis Minor Aerospace Studies (Air Force ROTC) The Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) program is a military training program for those that desire to serve in the United States Air Force as an Officer. about Aerospace Studies (Air Force ROTC)Learn More about Aerospace Studies (Air Force ROTC) Minor African American Studies This minor allows for a more concentrated focus on a specific racialized population in the United States‚ - in this case, peoples of African, African American, and African Caribbean heritage. about African American StudiesLearn More about African American Studies Minor American Indian Studies This minor allows for a more concentrated focus on a specific racialized population in the United States‚ - in this case, peoples with heritage from the indigenous communities of the U.S., including Alaska and Hawaii. about American Indian StudiesLearn More about American Indian Studies Minor Animation Studies Animation Studies integrates many components of animation studies and production: in this minor, you will study critical, historical, theoretical, and practical aspects of animation. about Animation StudiesLearn More about Animation Studies Major Minor Anthropology Anthropology is the comparative study of people and their ways of life across the full temporal and spatial range of human experience. about AnthropologyLearn More about Anthropology Minor Applied Ethics Applied ethics, or practical ethics, is the analysis of ethical issues such as these as they arise in real-world problems. about Applied EthicsLearn More about Applied Ethics Major Applied Mathematics Applied Mathematics is a combination of mathematical science and specialized knowledge in related fields such as physics, engineering, business, and computer science. about Applied MathematicsLearn More about Applied Mathematics Cert Applied Positive Psychology Through the Applied Positive Psychology certificate, you will learn to apply positive psychology to topics such as intimate relationships, happiness and satisfaction, traumatic experiences, addictive thinking, and career and work. about Applied Positive PsychologyLearn More about Applied Positive Psychology Major Minor Architectural Studies Architectural Studies is a pre-professional degree that prepares students for the planning, designing, and constructing of buildings and other physical structures. about Architectural StudiesLearn More about Architectural Studies Major Art BFA We have an excellent undergraduate studio program. The curriculum motivates students to develop a range of technical, formal and conceptual strengths. about Art BFALearn More about Art BFA Major Minor Art History The discipline of Art History encompasses the study of artistic endeavors of peoples around the globe. Individuals often choose to study art history to satisfy a deep curiosity about how art communicates the ideas of a culture. about Art HistoryLearn More about Art History Major Art Teaching The purpose of the BFA Art Teaching (K-12) Grade Licensure Program is to prepare elementary, junior high, middle school, and high school visual art educators. about Art TeachingLearn More about Art Teaching Minor Cert Arts Technology This cutting-edge program creates an academic environment that promotes interdisciplinary study in arts computing, and it has created an entirely new area for artists and practitioners to create, display, and disseminate their work. about Arts TechnologyLearn More about Arts Technology Minor Asian Pacific American Studies This minor allows for a more concentrated focus on a specific racialized population in the United States‚ - in this case, those with heritage from the Asian continent and the Pacific islands of Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia. about Asian Pacific American StudiesLearn More about Asian Pacific American Studies Major Minor Asian Studies The Asian Studies major is an interdisciplinary degree that will both deepen and broaden your understanding of this crucial region of the world. about Asian StudiesLearn More about Asian Studies Minor Astronomy If you like mathematics, computing, experiments, and wish to contribute to the future scientific progress of humankind, the exciting field of astronomy will maximize your career options. about AstronomyLearn More about Astronomy Major Minor Atmospheric Sciences Atmospheric Sciences seeks to understand the behavior and predictability of the Earth's atmosphere and requires a good foundation in mathematics, physics, chemistry, and computer science. about Atmospheric SciencesLearn More about Atmospheric Sciences Major Bachelor of University Studies BUS This degree provides students with the flexibility of creating an individualized major in an area not otherwise available at the university. about Bachelor of University Studies BUSLearn More about Bachelor of University Studies BUS Major Ballet BFA This degree prepares students for professional performing and teaching careers in colleges, universities, and other educational and professional organizations throughout the world. about Ballet BFALearn More about Ballet BFA Cert Ballet Studio Teaching The Ballet Studio Teaching certificate provides students an opportunity to study how to teach studio ballet. about Ballet Studio TeachingLearn More about Ballet Studio Teaching Major Biochemistry Biochemistry is the study of molecular level details that underlie life processes. Students who earn the degree receive a broad based training in all areas of chemistry and apply these to their studies of life. about BiochemistryLearn More about Biochemistry Major Biology Biology is a natural science concerned with the study of life and living organisms, including their structure, function, growth, evolution, distribution, identification, and taxonomy. about BiologyLearn More about Biology Major Minor Biomedical Engineering Biomedical engineering is the application of engineering principles and design concepts to medicine and biology for healthcare purposes. about Biomedical EngineeringLearn More about Biomedical Engineering Minor Cert Book Arts The Book Arts Program at the University of Utah champions wide-ranging explorations of the book. about Book ArtsLearn More about Book Arts Minor British Studies The goal of British Studies is to provide students with the opportunity to obtain a broad, multi-faceted understanding of the culture and society of Great Britain and the former colonies of the British Empire. about British StudiesLearn More about British Studies Minor Business The University of Utah's Business minor is designed for students majoring in academic areas outside of the business school (non-business majors only) who wish to supplement their major studies with education in business topics. about BusinessLearn More about Business Major Business Administration Provides students with a strong knowledge base across the fundamental disciplines of business: Accounting, Finance, Management, Operations Management, and Information Systems. about Business AdministrationLearn More about Business Administration Cert Business Scholars This certificate is available to students who have been accepted into the Business Scholars Program in the Eccles School of Business. about Business ScholarsLearn More about Business Scholars Minor Campaign Management The campaign management program offers undergraduate students the opportunity to learn the theory and practices that will allow them to be effective participants in election and advocacy campaigns. about Campaign ManagementLearn More about Campaign Management Minor Ceramics The Ceramics minor is designed for those interested in taking their ceramics knowledge and skills to the next level. about CeramicsLearn More about Ceramics Major Chemical Engineering A chemical engineer applies chemical and engineering knowledge to several fields‚ - environmental protection, pollution prevention, biotechnology, electronics, chemistry, petroleum, medicine, and law. about Chemical EngineeringLearn More about Chemical Engineering Major Minor Chemistry Chemistry is the study of matter, its properties, how and why substances combine or seperate to form other substances, and how substances interact with energy. about ChemistryLearn More about Chemistry Minor Chicana/o and Latina/o Studies This minor allows for a more concentrated focus on a specific racialized population in the United States‚ - in this case, peoples with Chicana/o, Latina/o, and Mexican American heritage. about Chicana/o and Latina/o StudiesLearn More about Chicana/o and Latina/o Studies Major Minor Chinese The Chinese major is intended for students who wish to gain a deeper understanding of Chinese culture through the study of the Chinese language, literature, and society. about ChineseLearn More about Chinese Major Civil & Environmental Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering encompasses a wide range of planning, design, and construction of buildings, bridges, dams, transportation, water supply and reclamation, fluid flow, and geotechnical engineering. about Civil & Environmental EngineeringLearn More about Civil & Environmental Engineering Minor Classical Civilization The Classics Civilization minor allows students to study the ancient civilizations of Greece and Rome, including their history, philosophy, religion, archeology, and art history. about Classical CivilizationLearn More about Classical Civilization Major Minor Classics The Classics Program includes the study of all facets of the ancient civilizations of Greece and Rome, including history, philosophy, drama, history of science, textual criticism, religion, archeology and art history. about ClassicsLearn More about Classics Cert Climate Change Human alteration of Earth's climate is an accepted scientific fact. Gain Scientifically-based, up-to-date knowledge is essential to formulating adaption and response strategies, and a certificate in Climate Change will provide you with this knowledge. about Climate ChangeLearn More about Climate Change Minor Cognitive Science Cognitive scientists attempt to answer questions of the mind, thoughts, and others as they try to discover how the mind works. about Cognitive ScienceLearn More about Cognitive Science Major Communication Communication deals with processes of human communication (verbal, written, and nonverbal) and behavior. about CommunicationLearn More about Communication Cert Community Engagement The Bennion Center Community Engagement Certificate offers a chance to bring your mind, heart, and hands together to address complex social and environmental challenges. about Community EngagementLearn More about Community Engagement Major Minor Comparative Literary & Cultural Studies Students majoring or minoring in Comparative Literary and Cultural Studies compare multiple literatures and cultures within the framework of a single degree. about Comparative Literary & Cultural StudiesLearn More about Comparative Literary & Cultural Studies Cert Computational Linguistics This certificate explores an area of technology known as Computational Linguistics and Natural Language Processing, the science behind text-to-speech, speech recognition, and other applications. about Computational LinguisticsLearn More about Computational Linguistics Major Computer Engineering Computer Engineering includes the design, implementation, and programming of digital computers and computer-controlled electronic systems. about Computer EngineeringLearn More about Computer Engineering Major Minor Computer Science The undergraduate program begins with a set of two courses that give students a solid background in object-oriented programming while exposing them to the breadth of issues that arise in computer science. about Computer ScienceLearn More about Computer Science Major Construction Engineering The University of Utah's Construction Engineering program will teach you scientific, mathematical, engineering, and management principles so that you can plan, design, and build commercial and residential buildings. about Construction EngineeringLearn More about Construction Engineering Minor Consumer and Community Studies The Consumer and Community Studies (CCS) program focuses on the well-being of households in terms of small-scale communities and large-scale environments. about Consumer and Community StudiesLearn More about Consumer and Community Studies Major Cert Criminology The Criminology program provides students with an in-depth exposure to all facets of the criminal justice system. about CriminologyLearn More about Criminology Cert Criminology and Corrections The Criminology and Corrections certificate provides students with exposure and a chance to take courses from many facets of Criminology from a multidisciplinary perspective. about Criminology and CorrectionsLearn More about Criminology and Corrections Minor Dark Sky Studies This program examines the negative impacts of light pollution and seeks how to preserve our night skies. about Dark Sky StudiesLearn More about Dark Sky Studies Major Cert Data Science Data Science is the 21st century discipline formalizing the process of data-driven analysis and decision making. It is making impacts on scientific discoveries and driving business decisions via sophisticated analysis. about Data ScienceLearn More about Data Science Major Minor Design The Design Major will use product design as a vehicle to investigate design research, human centered design principles, interface development, articulation of product forms, materials and digital manufacturing principles. about DesignLearn More about Design Cert Digital Culture Studies This certificate offers vital cultural and historical context surrounding technology, broadening perspectives and encouraging engagement with ethical implications of technological work. about Digital Culture StudiesLearn More about Digital Culture Studies Minor Disability Studies Disability Studies examines the concept of disability as a social, cultural, and political phenomenon. about Disability StudiesLearn More about Disability Studies Cert Diversity The Diversity certificate is useful to students who are interested in understanding the causes and consequences of diversity and inequality. about DiversityLearn More about Diversity Minor Documentary Studies This program will give you the tools to create, edit, and present documentary films, allowing you to share ideas, morals, and messages with the world. about Documentary StudiesLearn More about Documentary Studies Minor Drawing If you want to improve your artistic skills and develop your talent for creative expression, consider minoring in Drawing. about DrawingLearn More about Drawing Minor Earth Science If you are interested in learning more about your planet, consider minoring in Earth Sciences through the University of Utah's prestigious program. about Earth ScienceLearn More about Earth Science Major Earth Science Composite Teaching Provides students with the knowledge and skills to teach Earth Science, Physical Science and Integrated Science at the Secondary Education level. about Earth Science Composite Teaching Learn More about Earth Science Composite Teaching Minor Ecology and Legacy This minor offers a guided pathway through Honors Degree requirements, diving into environmental and ecological thinking in an interdisciplinary manner. about Ecology and LegacyLearn More about Ecology and Legacy Major Minor Economics Economists study social systems, focusing on issues related to decision making with scarce resources; the history, organization, and direction of firms and industries; and the structure and functions of social and economic institutions. about EconomicsLearn More about Economics Major Educational Psychology Educational Psychology is a branch of psychology that examines human learning from both cognitive and behavioral perspectives, and provides students with hands-on training and expertise in behavioral and mental health. about Educational PsychologyLearn More about Educational Psychology Major Electrical Engineering The Electrical Engineering curriculum prepares students with the knowldege and skills necessary to analyze and design complex electrical and electronic devices, software, and systems. about Electrical EngineeringLearn More about Electrical Engineering Major Elementary Education The Elementary Teacher Education Program provides broad preparation across many academic disciplines and concentrated professional training for teaching elementary school curriculum. about Elementary EducationLearn More about Elementary Education Cert Engineering Entrepreneurship If you have an interest in engineering and want to be able to apply these scientific skills to the business world, consider completing the Engineering Entrepreneurship Certificate. about Engineering EntrepreneurshipLearn More about Engineering Entrepreneurship Major Minor English Meets the needs of diverse students, including those preparing to be teachers, scholars and writers, and those pursuing other careers and professional studies that require strong analytic and linguistic skills. about EnglishLearn More about English Major English Teaching This major is designed to correspond with the Utah State Board of Education endorsement requirements to teach English Language Arts at the secondary level (high school). about English TeachingLearn More about English Teaching Minor English: Creative Writing This program will give you the skills you need to take the characters and adventures in your head and turn them into written, communicable stories. about English: Creative WritingLearn More about English: Creative Writing Major Minor Cert Entrepreneurship Learn to follow trends, identify emerging opportunities, and pursue those possibilities through the creation of new products and services and/or start a company. about EntrepreneurshipLearn More about Entrepreneurship Major Minor Environmental & Sustainability Studies This degree provides an interdisciplinary understanding of ecological systems and stresses the importance of social responsibility, leadership, and a science-based focus on solutions. about Environmental & Sustainability StudiesLearn More about Environmental & Sustainability Studies Major Minor Ethnic Studies This degree will prepare students from a wide range of racial and ethnic backgrounds interested in employment with private and public organizations and agencies that work with historically underserved populations. about Ethnic StudiesLearn More about Ethnic Studies Major Family, Community, & Human Development This major provides students with a broad and detailed understanding of the processes of personal development in the context of family, and as impacted by community and societal forces. about Family, Community, & Human DevelopmentLearn More about Family, Community, & Human Development Major Film & Media Arts This Bachelor of Arts program offers students the opportunity to examine closely the art form that defines our time through a series of courses covering the history, aesthetics, and criticism of the motion picture. about Film & Media ArtsLearn More about Film & Media Arts Major Finance The field of finance deals with the concepts of time, money, risk, how they are interrelated, and how money is budgeted and spent. Finance students will have several experiential learning opportunities in the field. about FinanceLearn More about Finance Cert Financial Planning The field of finance deals with the concepts of time, money, risk, how they are interrelated, and how money is budgeted and spent. Finance students will have several experiential learning opportunities in the field. about Financial PlanningLearn More about Financial Planning Major Minor French The French major is intended for students who wish to gain a deeper understanding of French and Francophone cultures through the study of language, literature, and society. about FrenchLearn More about French Major Minor French Teaching The French Teaching program was developed for students who are interested in French and would like to pursue a teaching career. about French TeachingLearn More about French Teaching Major Minor Games The Games program explores development of video games from multiple perspectives. Content includes character development, coding, story, project management, and more. about GamesLearn More about Games Major Minor Gender Studies Gender studies is an interdisciplinary field that focuses on the complex interaction of gender with race, class, sexual orientation, and nationality. about Gender StudiesLearn More about Gender Studies Major Cert Geographic Information Science Geographic information science (GIS) uses digital technologies to collect, assess, and analyze geographic data: the places, activities, and phenomena on the Earth that are stored in maps or images. about Geographic Information ScienceLearn More about Geographic Information Science Major Minor Geography Geography is the study of natural Earth systems, human societies and the interaction between them. Geography bridges the physical and social sciences. about GeographyLearn More about Geography Major Geological Engineering Graduates will utilize their backgrounds in engineering and earth science to provide solutions to engineering problems within the context of the natural world. about Geological EngineeringLearn More about Geological Engineering Major Geoscience Geoscience educates students to apply the principles of chemistry, physics, math, and biology to understand the composition, structure, and history of the Earth, and the processes that govern them. about GeoscienceLearn More about Geoscience Major Minor German The German major is intended for students who wish to gain a deeper understanding of Germanic cultures through the study of the German language, literature, and society. about GermanLearn More about German Minor Cert Gerontology As a basic and applied science, gerontology examines specific changes in older individuals as well as the broader social issues confronting them. about GerontologyLearn More about Gerontology Major Graphic Design Graphic design is primarily concerned with visual communication Designers must have a broad base of knowledge, including visual design principles, problem-solving methods, conceptual thinking, image-making, and more. about Graphic DesignLearn More about Graphic Design Cert Hazards and Emergency Management Hazards and emergency management addresses issues in disaster mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. about Hazards and Emergency ManagementLearn More about Hazards and Emergency Management Minor Health This wide-ranging minor touches on exercise, nutrition, public health, community health issues, and other health topics. about HealthLearn More about Health Major Health and Kinesiology Programs in department: Kinesiology Teaching, Parks Recreation & Tourism, Recreational Therapy, Speech & Hearing Science about Health and KinesiologyLearn More about Health and Kinesiology Cert Health Communication Health communication is the art of communicating with or for health organizations. about Health CommunicationLearn More about Health Communication Major Health Society & Policy An interdisciplinary major that provides students with a strong foundation for a diverse set of careers, including healthcare administration, health professions, and health policy. about Health Society & PolicyLearn More about Health Society & Policy Minor Health Teaching The School Health Teaching minor is for students who are already pursuing a different teaching major and yet are also interested in health education as an additional topic of study. about Health TeachingLearn More about Health Teaching Major Minor History We study history to appreciate the varieties of human experience, to understand the present, and to plan for the future. Students learn about history across regions of the world and multiple periods of time. about HistoryLearn More about History Minor Honors Integrated Minor in Health An Honors Integrated Minor is an opportunity for first- and second-year Honors students to complete their Honors coursework in a coordinated fashion around a common theme and with a cohort of peers. about Honors Integrated Minor in HealthLearn More about Honors Integrated Minor in Health Minor Human Development and Family Studies Students in the CCS major gain an interdisciplinary understanding of marketplace and community influences on households. about Human Development and Family StudiesLearn More about Human Development and Family Studies Cert Human Factors Research and study in the field of Human Factors aims to improve human interaction with equipment, software, and other people in ways that will enhance performance, increase safety, and improve user satisfaction. about Human FactorsLearn More about Human Factors Major Minor Information Systems As a student in this program, you will learn the tools to manage the technical direction of business, solve technological issues, and implement new technological advances to enrich business operations. about Information SystemsLearn More about Information Systems Minor Integrative Human Biology Integrative Human Biology (IHB) is a field that integrates the biological and behavioral sciences as they apply to Homo sapiens. about Integrative Human BiologyLearn More about Integrative Human Biology Cert International Relations This program is great for students seeking a global perspective on political science, problem- solving, and communication. International Relations is an interdisciplinary program suited for students of all majors. about International RelationsLearn More about International Relations Major International Studies The courses available through the International Studies Program give students descriptive, analytical, and methodological tools to help understand the world and the United States in a global context. about International StudiesLearn More about International Studies Minor Italian In this program, you can focus on the culture of ancient Italy, explore the world of Italian film, or examine how Italian culture has inspired and shaped the art and film of other countries throughout time. about ItalianLearn More about Italian Major Minor Japanese The Japanese major is intended for students who wish to gain a deeper understanding of Japanese culture through the study of the Japanese language, literature, and society. about JapaneseLearn More about Japanese Minor Korean Studies The minor in Korean and Korean Studies allows students to develop fluency in Korean while also learning about Korean culture and diaspora. about Korean StudiesLearn More about Korean Studies Major Minor Latin American Studies The Latin American Studies Major and Minor provide students the opportunity to explore interdisciplinary approaches to Latin America. about Latin American StudiesLearn More about Latin American Studies Minor Leadership Studies Set an example, organize people and processes, and ultimately be a force for positive change with the Leadership Studies Minor at the University of Utah. about Leadership StudiesLearn More about Leadership Studies Major Minor Linguistics Linguistics is an ideal major for today's university student. It provides the intellectual satisfaction of learning how human language works, while at the same time developing the analytical skills necessary to be highly competitive on the job market. about LinguisticsLearn More about Linguistics Major Minor Management Management skills apply to every organization and in every business discipline. The Management Major is designed to give students the skills they need to lead companies in all phases of development, from start up to maturity, and through challenging situations. about ManagementLearn More about Management Major Marketing Marketing is an organizational function and a set of processes for creating, communicating, and delivering value to customers. about MarketingLearn More about Marketing Major Materials Science & Engineering Materials science and engineering inter-twines numerous disciplines, including chemistry, physics and engineering, and is engaged in the discovery and development of new materials that can enrich everyday lives. about Materials Science & EngineeringLearn More about Materials Science & Engineering Major Minor Mathematics Mathematics is the science that deals with the logic of shape, quantity and arrangement. This major prepares students for postgraduate study or employment in a variety of professions requiring the ability to analyze problems and think critically. about MathematicsLearn More about Mathematics Major Minor Mathematics Teaching To teach mathematics well one must have a real interest in the subject along with a strong grasp of mathematical ideas well beyond the level at which one teaches. about Mathematics TeachingLearn More about Mathematics Teaching Major Mechanical Engineering The field of mechanical engineering (ME) is concerned with the mechanical, thermal, and fluid-flow aspects of mechanical systems, including computer and feedback control of complex systems. about Mechanical EngineeringLearn More about Mechanical Engineering Cert Mechatronics Mechatronics is technology that combines electronics and mechanical engineering in a single device: for example, the software systems in modern vehicles or the Mars rover. about MechatronicsLearn More about Mechatronics Minor Media Studies If you want to understand how we use, adapt, appropriate, and are affected by media, consider minoring in Media Studies at the University of Utah. about Media StudiesLearn More about Media Studies Minor Medical Humanities Students in the Medical Humanities Minor will explore topics in medical history, ethics, communication, and the diverse ways in which health and medicine have been interpreted and practiced within different societies. about Medical HumanitiesLearn More about Medical Humanities Major Medical Laboratory Science As a Medical Laboratory Science (MLS) student at the University of Utah, you will gain the knowledge and technical skills you need to work in a modern diagnostic medical laboratory. about Medical Laboratory ScienceLearn More about Medical Laboratory Science Major Metallurgical Engineering Metallurgical engineering involves the study, innovation, design, implementation, and improvement of processes that transform mineral resources and metals into useful products that improve the quality of our lives. about Metallurgical EngineeringLearn More about Metallurgical Engineering Major Minor Middle East Studies Learn a new language, gain an appreciation for another culture, and become an active participant in today's global world with the Middle East Studies program. about Middle East StudiesLearn More about Middle East Studies Minor Military Science (Army ROTC) The Military Science Reserve Officer Training Corps (Army ROTC) program is a military training program for those who desire to serve in the U.S. Army as a commissioned officer. about Military Science (Army ROTC)Learn More about Military Science (Army ROTC) Major Mining Engineering Mining provides the raw materials and energy resources needed to sustain modern civilization. about Mining EngineeringLearn More about Mining Engineering Major Minor Modern Dance BFA If you want to pursue your passion for creative expression, consider studying dance. about Modern Dance BFALearn More about Modern Dance BFA Major Modern Dance Teaching The Modern Dance Teaching BFA is a four-year professional degree that prepares students to teach dance in a variety of dynamic and challenging learning environments. about Modern Dance TeachingLearn More about Modern Dance Teaching Major Minor Music Pursue your passion and let your creativity shine through with the music program at the University of Utah. about MusicLearn More about Music Major Music BMus If you want to make music your life's work, consider the University of Utah's music degree. about Music BMusLearn More about Music BMus Cert Music Entrepreneurship The Music Entrepreneurship certificate has been carefully curated with courses that will provide students with the critical practical skills needed to succeed in the demanding environment of the modern performing arts industry. about Music EntrepreneurshipLearn More about Music Entrepreneurship Minor Cert Music Technology If you're interested in music production and engineering, considering studying Music Technology. about Music TechnologyLearn More about Music Technology Minor Naval Science (Navy/Marine ROTC) The Naval Science Reserve Officer Training Corps (Navy/Marine ROTC) program is a military training program for those who desire to serve in the U.S. Navy or Marine Corps as a commissioned officer. about Naval Science (Navy/Marine ROTC)Learn More about Naval Science (Navy/Marine ROTC) Minor Nuclear Engineering With the Nuclear Engineering Minor, you will gain the knowledge and skills you need to join the next generation of nuclear engineers. about Nuclear EngineeringLearn More about Nuclear Engineering Major Nursing The College of Nursing baccalaureate program prepares students to be generalists in clinical settings, for entry-level administrative positions, and for graduate work in nursing. about NursingLearn More about Nursing Minor Nutrition If you are passionate about food, exercise, and eating and living well, consider the minor in Nutrition with the University of Utah. about NutritionLearn More about Nutrition Minor Occupational Safety & Health OSH explores all aspects of safety in the workplace. This includes communication, human factors, risk assessment, injury prevention, and other topics related to the field of Occupational Safety and Health. about Occupational Safety & HealthLearn More about Occupational Safety & Health Major Operations and Supply Chain Operations and Supply Chain involves working within an organization to oversee the quality and speed of business processes. Students study a firm's profitability, process flows, output quality, and supply chain. about Operations and Supply ChainLearn More about Operations and Supply Chain Cert Pacific Island Studies This certificate allows for a concentrated focus on a specific racialized population in the United States ‚Äì in this case, those with heritage from the Pacific Islands. about Pacific Island Studies Learn More about Pacific Island Studies Major Minor Parks, Recreation & Tourism The department offers the opportunity to study leisure theory and research, as well as applied topics related to the park, recreation, and tourism profession. about Parks, Recreation & TourismLearn More about Parks, Recreation & Tourism Major Minor Peace & Conflict Studies Peace and Conflict Studies is an interdisciplinary program that enables students to study the dynamics of peace and conflict and to contribute to peaceable conditions in the home, the work place, and the world. about Peace & Conflict StudiesLearn More about Peace & Conflict Studies Minor Pediatric Clinical Research The Pediatric Medical Research minor will provide you with hands-on training and skills in pediatric medical research. about Pediatric Clinical ResearchLearn More about Pediatric Clinical Research Major Minor Philosophy At its simplest, Philosophy (Greek for 'the love of wisdom') is the study of knowledge, or "thinking about thinking". It is the rational investigation of questions about existence, knowledge, and ethics - "who am I?" about PhilosophyLearn More about Philosophy Major Philosophy of Science Philosophy of Science takes a look at the nature of science in general and individual branches of science through a philosophical lens. Assessing scientific reasoning, reliability, theory, moral dilemmas, social implications, and many other philosophical issues around science. about Philosophy of ScienceLearn More about Philosophy of Science Minor Photography Whether you're a seasoned photographer or just starting out, consider the Photography Minor to enhance and develop your photography skills. about PhotographyLearn More about Photography Major Minor Physics Physics is the branch of science concerned with the nature and properties of matter and energy. Physics is a discipline that develops analytical thinking and problem solving skills. about PhysicsLearn More about Physics Major Minor Physics Teaching The Physics Teaching Bachelor’s Degree is intended for students who plan on becoming teachers in the K-12 school system. about Physics TeachingLearn More about Physics Teaching Major Minor Political Science Political science is a broad area of study focused on the privileges and responsibilities of citizenship, the uses and abuses of power, relations between nations, and many other important topics. about Political ScienceLearn More about Political Science Minor Portuguese & Brazilian Studies With the minor in Portuguese, students will study not only the global language of Portuguese, but they will also explore the rich culture and history of Brazil. about Portuguese & Brazilian StudiesLearn More about Portuguese & Brazilian Studies Minor Printmaking This minor offers an understanding of various printmaking techniques, including Screenprinting, Intaglio, Relief printing, and Lithography ‚ all quite different techniques. about Printmaking Learn More about Printmaking Cert Professional and Technical Writing The certificate in Professional and Technical Writing prepares students for thinking about writing as a rhetorical and social act, wherein the message conveyed is not only well crafted but meets the expectations of the audience in terms of its design and execution. about Professional and Technical WritingLearn More about Professional and Technical Writing Minor Professional Selling & Business Development For those who are natural salespeople or looking for skills in developing a business. Learn the foundations of business and marketing. Take classes in professional selling and setting a marketing vision. about Professional Selling & Business DevelopmentLearn More about Professional Selling & Business Development Major Minor Psychology Psychologists study human and animal behavior with the goals of understanding how they function in their respective natural worlds; and predicting, and alleviating behavioral and psychological maladjustment. about PsychologyLearn More about Psychology Major Quantitative Analysis of Markets & Organizations In this major, students learn to build economic models using quantitative and statistical analysis techniques. about Quantitative Analysis of Markets & OrganizationsLearn More about Quantitative Analysis of Markets & Organizations Cert Quantitative Research Analysis in Social Sciences This certificate is the perfect pairing for those studying or interested in data driven decision and the social & behavioral sciences. about Quantitative Research Analysis in Social SciencesLearn More about Quantitative Research Analysis in Social Sciences Major Recreational Therapy Recreational therapists use individual and group counseling techniques to improve the overall well-being of individuals with injury, illness and/or disability to enable a greater quality of life. about Recreational TherapyLearn More about Recreational Therapy Major Minor Religious Studies Students of Religious Studies learn about the sociological and psychological factors which shape belief and often inform global conflict. about Religious StudiesLearn More about Religious Studies Major Minor Russian The Russian major is intended for students who wish to gain a deeper understanding of Russian culture through the study of the Russian language, literature, and society. about RussianLearn More about Russian Cert Screen Performance The Certificate in Screen Performance offers undergraduate students in both Film & Media Arts and Theatre an opportunity to extend their major program of study with focused training in screen performance. about Screen PerformanceLearn More about Screen Performance Minor Sculpture/ Intermedia This minor approaches sculpture as an inclusive art form, emphasizing new media as well as traditional methods and processes. about Sculpture/ IntermediaLearn More about Sculpture/ Intermedia Major Secondary Education If you are passionate about a particular field and want to educate and train others in that topic, consider entering the world of secondary education. about Secondary EducationLearn More about Secondary Education Cert Social Justice Advocacy If you want to become a more informed, aware individual who can be an advocate for action, consider the Social Justice Advocacy Certificate. about Social Justice AdvocacyLearn More about Social Justice Advocacy Major Social Work BSW Social work is a profession concerned with helping individuals, families, groups and communities to enhance their individual and collective well-being. The B.S.W. prepares students for professional practice. about Social Work BSWLearn More about Social Work BSW Major Minor Sociology Sociology is an incredibly versatile undergraduate major that investigates the interrelationships between social order and social change in our personal lives, the communities we live in, and the world as a whole. about SociologyLearn More about Sociology Major Minor Spanish The Spanish major is intended for students who wish to gain a deeper understanding of Spanish culture through the study of the Spanish language, literature, and society. about SpanishLearn More about Spanish Major Minor Spanish Teaching The Spanish Teaching major is a program developed for students who are interested in Spanish and would like to pursue a teaching career. about Spanish TeachingLearn More about Spanish Teaching Major Minor Special Education The undergraduate Special Education teacher education program provides professional training for educating young children and students with disabilities. about Special EducationLearn More about Special Education Major Speech & Hearing Science The undergraduate major in Speech & Hearing Science (SPHS) is a pre-professional degree for speech language pathology and/or audiology. about Speech & Hearing ScienceLearn More about Speech & Hearing Science Cert Stage Management The Stage Management certificate helps students to develop an artistic sensibility, a strong working knowledge of technical production, and effective organizational and management skills to orchestrate the smooth execution of a production. about Stage ManagementLearn More about Stage Management Minor Strategic Communication This minor will serve students who are interested in pursuing knowledge of public relations, advertising, marketing, event planning, and campaign design/evaluation to compliment majors outside the Department of Communication. about Strategic CommunicationLearn More about Strategic Communication Cert Substance Use Disorder Treatment Training Program This certificate provides the knowledge and treatment skills necessary to treat individuals with substance use disorders, as well as the families of these individuals. about Substance Use Disorder Treatment Training ProgramLearn More about Substance Use Disorder Treatment Training Program Cert Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) The TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages) certificate prepares students to teach English to non-native English speakers in the United States or abroad. about Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL)Learn More about Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) Major Minor Theatre Theatre Studies BA is a versatile degree that emphasizes the potential of theatre as one of the Liberal Arts. Originally intended as a basic course of study for potential theatre scholars and administrators. about TheatreLearn More about Theatre Major Theatre BFA There are four main Theatre BFA emphases: Actor Training Program (ATP), Musical Theatre Program (MTP), Performing Arts Design Program (PADP), and the Stage Management Program about Theatre BFALearn More about Theatre BFA Major Theatre Teaching The BFA in Theatre Teaching is a four-year professional degree that prepares students to teach theatre in a variety of dynamic and challenging learning environments. about Theatre TeachingLearn More about Theatre Teaching Major Minor Urban Ecology The undergraduate program in urban planning is a pre-professional degree that provides an academic foundation for developing a career in understanding, analyzing, and planning the urban and small town environment. about Urban EcologyLearn More about Urban Ecology Cert Veterans Studies This certificate enables students to develop a better understanding of veterans and their experience, with knowledge that will enable them to better serve or relate to veterans in the community. about Veterans StudiesLearn More about Veterans Studies Major Minor Writing and Rhetoric Studies The degree is designed to prepare students who are strong analytical thinkers and proficient writers. A degree in writing will prepare students for many careers and a variety of graduate school options. about Writing and Rhetoric StudiesLearn More about Writing and Rhetoric Studies Academic Advising Center Student Services Building, Room 450 201 S. 1460 East, Rm 450 Salt Lake City, Ut 84112-9060 801-581-8146 Stay in Touch Find Us Contact Us Webmaster Quick Links A-Z Index Campus Directory Campus Map Shuttle Tracker CIS UMail @ The U © 2022 The University of Utah Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Credits & Attributions Media Contacts Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Blogger Last Updated: 4/30/21