Academic and Student Affairs Think and Do The Extraordinary Support Student Success Academic Advising Programs and Services New Incoming Fall 2022 Exploratory Studies students: Fall Registration begins on June 1. You must register yourself for classes beginning June 1. Take the Pre-NSO Survey here: https://go.ncsu.edu/nsosurvey and complete the Self-Registration Training in Moodle here: https://go.ncsu.edu/esselfregistration. You will meet with your academic advisor to review your fall schedule at New Student Orientation. MAIN MENU Primary Menu Skip to content About Us Fast Facts Diversity Our Team Our Location Exploratory Studies Welcome to Exploratory Studies Current Students Make an Appointment with My Advisor Exploratory Studies Village USC 101 and 102 Exploring Majors and Minors Academic Success Newly Admitted Students Advising in Exploratory Studies Summer Start Students Starting in Fall Spring Connections Students Prospective Students Fast Facts Exploratory Studies Village Exploratory Studies Ambassadors Visit Exploratory Studies Inter-College Transfer Students Inter-College Transfer (ICT) Program Make an Appointment with My Advisor Fast Facts Explore Majors and Minors Academic Success Explore Majors & Minors Advising Advising at NC State Advising in Your College Coordinators of Advising External Transfer Students International Students Virtual Advisor AAPS Change of Major Drop-In Advising Advisor Resources Resources for Advisors Advising Committees Advisor Professional Development Advisor Development Institute Advisor Roundtables Advisor’s Toolkit Undergraduate Academic Advising Awards Explore Majors and Minors Learn more about the different areas of academic focus at NC State. Learn more Academic Advising Programs and Services strives to provide quality advising services to undergraduate students to assist with major selection, career awareness, academic success, and personal enrichment. Self-Registration Training Webinar Spotlight on Staff AAPS Drop-In Advising Virtual Advisor Recent News | Read more... Tony Shurer Wins NCAIE Professional Newcomer Award April 22, 2022 NC State’s academic coordinator for international student support was recognized for the early impact he has made in his time at the university. Career Conversations Series Inspires Exploratory Studies, ICT Students April 11, 2022 Professionals and alumni from a wide variety of career fields gave advice and inspiration to NC State students in the Exploratory Studies and Inter-College Transfer programs during the month-long series. Faculty and Staff Receive 2020-2021 Undergraduate Academic Advising Awards February 9, 2021 In addition to recognizing outstanding faculty and staff advisors, the Advising Administrator Award was renamed in honor of Carrie McLean, the recently retired assistant dean of University College and director of advising for the university. Academic Advising Programs and Services 2751 Cates Ave. Holmes Hall Raleigh, NC 27695-7925 academic-advising-programs-services@ncsu.edu 919.515.8130 Email CONNECT WITH US @NCStateAdvising @NCSUExploratory SEARCH THIS WEBSITE Search for: Privacy Accessibility © 2022 Academic Advising Programs and Services | Log in