Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Undergraduate Advising Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link History & Mission Contact Us Advising Appointments Select to follow link Undergraduate Advising Center Information Departmental Advising People Select to follow link Professional Staff Graduate Assistant Program Major & Degree Information Select to follow link Major Exploration KU Academic Terminology Majors: Update | Declare | Apply Minors Special Programs & Certificates Enrollment & Schedule Changes Select to follow link Enrollment Enrollment Holds Add/Swap/Drop/Repeat KU Core Jayhawk GPS Credit Information Select to follow link Credit/No Credit Transfer Credits to KU Transfer Credits from KU Academic Calendar Transcript Ordering Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Undergraduate Advising Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search UNDERGRADUATE ADVISING CENTER (UAC) We assist all exploratory and pre-professional students. Helping you explore options to achieve your dreams, goals, and potential is what we do best! Schedule an appointment to meet with an advisor in-person or via Zoom today! About the Undergraduate Advising Center Which best describes you? Which best describes you? Pre-Professional Students I am a pre-professional student such as pre-business, pre-education, pre-nursing, etc. and would like to meet with an advisor. More about how the Undergraduate Advising Center can help. Exploring or Considering a Major Change I am exploring majors and careers and have not chosen or declared a major, or I have chosen or declared a major, but I am not sure it is the best fit for me. I would like to explore my options. Learn what exploring looks like at KU Happy with My Declared Major I have declared a major and am happy with my choice. I need assistance from my departmental advisor. Access your academic department. Access helpful resources! Schedule an Appointment Drop-Ins Jayhawk GPS Enrollment KU Core Courses Credit Transfer Follow us! Stay up-to-date on helpful resources, campus life, important deadlines, and more! Instagram Instagram Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Have a question? Send us a chat. null Summerfield Hall, Room 315 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 advising@ku.edu 785-864-2834 facebook instagram twitter youtube Major Exploration KU Orientation Academic Calendar KU Core Credit Transfer Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.