Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with Your Student Success Coach New Student Advising and Enrollment Preparing for Advising and Enrollment Resources for Faculty Mentors Student Resources Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Academic Advising > New Student Advising and Enrollment New Student Advising and Enrollment ACADEMIC ADVISING Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with Your Student Success Coach New Student Advising and Enrollment Preparing for Advising and Enrollment Resources for Faculty Mentors Student Resources New Student Advising and Enrollment Dates Athlete New Freshmen Advising March 21, 2022 New Transfer Student Advising April 19. 2022 New Freshmen Student Advising April 19, 2022 Once you’ve scheduled your advising appointment (see scheduling links below) we ask that you complete the following steps prior to meeting with your success coach: Submit your Intent to Enroll and your Enrollment Fee Activate your TU Account Take the following placement assessments: TU Mathematics Placement Assessment This is the first step in your math placement process, and will include a self-assessment component alongside the placement and preparation tools. Initial placement assessment must be completed 48 hours prior to your enrollment appointment. Complete the TU Writing Program Placement Guided Self-Placement Questionnaire (see details below). Must be completed at least 2 weeks prior to your new student enrollment appointment. Foreign Language Placement Exam if you plan to major in a Business or Arts and Sciences program and you plan to continue in a Foreign Language in which you have previous classroom or life experience, take this assessment at least 48 hours prior to your enrollment appointment. If you have credit from dual credit/concurrent enrollment at an institution of higher education, please submit a Freshman Credit Evaluation Request. Complete your Financial Agreement Form (you will receive information from Admission on how to complete this). If you are undecided about your major options, we recommend that you schedule a Career Coaching Session to discuss your major and future plans. If you have questions about any of these pre-advisement steps, please contact advising@utulsa.edu. Schedule Your Advising Appointment Use the table below to schedule your enrollment advising appointment. Undecided students should refer to the Undecided? That’s Okay! tab below for scheduling instructions. Major Programs Advisor Contact Information Click Appointment Type Below Accounting, Accelerated Business and Law, Computer Information Systems, Economics (Business), Energy Management, Marketing Patty Kitchen patty-kitchen@utulsa.edu 918-631-2553 Freshmen Athlete Transfer Student New Freshmen Art, Art History, Arts Management, Arts Culture & Entertainment Management, Creative Writing, Economics, English, Environmental Policy, Elementary Education, Music, Music Education, and Women's & Gender Studies Sherry Clegg sherry clegg@utulsa.edu 918-631-2608 Freshmen Athlete Transfer Student New Freshmen Film Studies, French, German, Spanish, History, Philosophy & Religion, Political Science, Sociology, Anthropology, Media Studies Jack Parsley jack-parsley@utulsa.edu 918-631-3076 Freshmen Athlete Transfer Student New Freshmen Chemistry, Computer Science, Computer Simuation & Gaming, Cyber Security Lindsey Schneider lindsey-schneider@utulsa.edu 918-631-2223 Freshmen Athlete Transfer Student New Freshmen Biology, Geosciences, Geophysics, Engineering Physics, Physics Rochelle Latimer rochelle-latimer@utulsa.edu 918-631-3047 Freshmen Athlete Transfer Student New Freshmen Applied Math, Math, Mechanical Engineering Cathy Kennemer cathy-kennemer@utulsa.edu 918-631-3048 Freshmen Athlete Transfer Student New Freshmen Chemical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Petroleum Engineering, International Business and Language Nadia Hall nadia-hall@utulsa.edu 918-631-3046 Freshmen Athlete Transfer Student New Freshmen Biochemistry, Exercise and Sport Sciences Elisa LeSieur elisa-lesieur@utulsa.edu 918-631-2931 Freshmen Athlete Transfer Student New Freshmen Nursing, Speech & Language Pathology, Psychology Greg McKee greg-mckee@utulsa.edu 918-631-2083 Freshmen Athlete Transfer Student New Freshmen Organizational Studies, Finance and Management Christina Carter christina-carter@utulsa.edu 918-631-3530 Freshmen Athlete Transfer Student New Freshmen Undecided? That's Okay! If you are still unsure about which major you’d like to pursue, that’s okay! We have success coaches who work with undecided students. Prior to your advising appointment with a student success coach, we recommend taking the following steps: Meet with a Career Coach in the Center for Career Development and Professional Engagement We encourage our Undecided Students to schedule a Career Coaching Session to discuss your major and future career plans. Explore TU Degree Programs TU offers a variety of major and minor programs. Use this link to discover what TU has to offer: Explore Programs To schedule with one of our student success coaches, please use the table below to identify the best success coach for you to meet with to discuss enrollment. Programs of Interest Advisor Contact Information ATHLETE New Freshmen Appointment New Transfer Student Appointments New Freshmen Student Appointments Arts and Sciences Undecided Explore Arts and Sciences Programs Here Sherry Clegg sherry-clegg@utulsa.edu 918-631-2608 Freshmen Athlete Transfer Student New Freshmen Business Undecided Explore Business Programs Here Christina Carter christina-carter@utulsa.edu 918-631-3050 Freshmen Athlete Transfer Student New Freshmen Engineering and Natural Sciences Undecided Explore Engineering and Natural Sciences Programs Here Christina Carter christina-carter@utulsa.edu 918-631-3050 Freshmen Athlete Transfer Student New Freshmen Health Sciences Undecided Explore Health Sciences Programs Here Elisa LeSieur elisa-lesieur@utulsa.edu 918-631-2931 Freshmen Athlete Transfer Student New Freshmen TU Writing Program Placement Guided Self-Placement Questionnaire The University of Tulsa Writing Program faculty have developed a dynamic Self-Placement process to assist you in identifying the best first year writing sequence to support your academic success. Please visit the Course Placement section of our Writing Program site found HERE for instructions on how to complete the assessment. This assessment must be completed at least 2 weeks prior to your new student enrollment appointment. Non-Degree Seeking and Summer Only Students Once you have been admitted to the University, you will meet with a student success coach to enroll in your courses. Non-Degree Seeking Advisor: Christina Carter christina-carter@utulsa.edu Schedule an appointment with Christina HERE Essential Resources for New Students Academic Calendar Academic Success Resources Campus Map New Student Checklist Schedule of Courses Student Tuition Insurance Tuition Payment Policy Tutoring 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT