Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with Your Student Success Coach New Student Advising and Enrollment Preparing for Advising and Enrollment Resources for Faculty Mentors Student Resources Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Academic Advising > Meet the Staff Meet the Staff ACADEMIC ADVISING Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with Your Student Success Coach New Student Advising and Enrollment Preparing for Advising and Enrollment Resources for Faculty Mentors Student Resources Our team of professional student success coaches will help you maximize your opportunities at the University of Tulsa by assisting you with degree planning and connecting you to valuable university resources while helping you stay on track for graduation. If you need help with degree planning, course enrollment, or general academic advice, schedule an appointment to meet with your student success coach HERE. Dr. Christina Carter Executive Director of the Student Success TeamBio Nadia Hall Associate Director of Advising and Student Success CoachingBio Sable Vasquez Student Success Coach Sherry Clegg Student Success CoachBio Dr. Cathy Kennemer Senior Student Success CoachBio Patty Kitchen Senior Student Success CoachBio Rochelle Latimer Senior Student Success CoachBio Elisa LeSieur Senior Student Success CoachBio Greg McKee Student Success CoachBio Jack Parsley Student Success CoachBio Lindsey Schneider Student Success CoachBio Alyssa Walker Student Success Coach × Dr. Christina Carter Executive Director of the Student Success Team I am a native of Tulsa, Oklahoma and earned my Bachelor of Science in Health & Human Performance from Northeastern State University. I then earned a Master of Science in Sport Management, followed by a Ph.D. in Adult & Higher Education from the University of Oklahoma. Prior to this role, I spent over 20 years serving in college athletics, serving as both an Associate Athletics Director for Compliance and an Associate Athletics Director for Academic & Student Services, and teaching courses in Career Development and Academic Strategies. During my senior year at NSU, I was not accepted into Physical Therapy school and had to change my major to athletic training, extending my graduation to a fifth year. Although I was devasted, I quickly learned through my mentors that I had other options to achieve my goals. Then, again, in graduate school I fell in love with a class second semester that my mentor was teaching, and I changed my focus from athletic training to sport management. Later, I had the opportunity to work for that same mentor, who encouraged me to apply for the doctoral program in education at OU. If I had not had the mentorship he provided, I do not know if I would be where I am today. I want to provide students with that same type of mentorship. Through these experiences I have learned that my passion lies in helping students achieve their goals. My research interests include academic motivation, retention, and persistence. My personal advising philosophy is centered around a holistic student development approach that supports your academic, personal, and professional success. I am excited to help bring this new team together as a collaborative and positive leader, who will focus on providing excellent service to you so you can achieve your goals. Close Window × Nadia Hall Associate Director of Advising and Student Success Coaching I graduated from the University of Tulsa with both my bachelors in Elementary Education and my Masters in School Counseling. I am currently in the 4th year of my Ph.D. in Educational Leadership. My why for being a Student Success Coach is that I believe that every student can be successful! When I transferred to The University of Tulsa in the spring semester, I remember feeling lost and alone. I struggled to make friends. This was a difficult place for me because up until then, I always had an abundance of friends. About two weeks after classes started, an RA in Lottie Jane introduced me to her friend circle. Eventually, I became a part of this friend group and the rest of my time at TU is something I will cherish for a lifetime! It was the kindness of an RA that helped me find my space here at TU and I’m proud to have the opportunity to pay that kindness forward by helping other students make the TU community their own! Close Window × Sable Vasquez Student Success Coach Close Window × Sherry Clegg Student Success Coach I grew up in St. Louis, Missouri and later moved to Dayton, Ohio and then to Edmond, Oklahoma where I graduated high school. I attended the University of Tulsa and graduated with a B.A. in Psychology. After graduating, I worked for Tulsa area nonprofits the American Red Cross and Volunteers of America of Oklahoma. After working for a few years in Tulsa, my spouse and I moved to Lubbock, Texas, where I attended and graduated law school at Texas Tech University. We then moved to San Antonio, Texas, and I accepted a position as a law success instructor at St. Mary’s University School of Law. In 2017, we decided to move back to Tulsa, and I worked as an academic advisor at OSU-Tulsa for four years before joining the Student Success team at TU. My philosophy on student advising and coaching respects students as capable individuals with their own unique priorities and interests. I love helping students explore all the opportunities that college has to offer and connecting them with mentors and other resources. I look forward to meeting you and assisting you on the path to reaching your goals! Close Window × Dr. Cathy Kennemer Senior Student Success Coach I grew up in the very small town of Derma, Mississippi. I earned my Bachelor of Science in Clothing, Textiles and Merchandising and my Master’s of Agribusiness Management from Mississippi State University. I then earned a Ph.D. in Human Environmental Sciences: Apparel Merchandising from Oklahoma State University. Prior to working as a student success coach at TU, I worked as both a professional academic advisor and a tenured associate professor of business at two Tulsa-area 4-year universities. I believe that all students attend college with different experiences and expectations and deserve to have a professional “in their corner” to help each student grow and develop. Challenge: As a sophomore at Mississippi State, I applied for a scholarship that required a recommendation from a faculty member outside of my major. I remember asking my Business Communication professor because I sat on the front row of a large auditorium class and earned a solid A in her course. Going to her office to ask for the recommendation I felt very confident that she would write a glowing recommendation because I always attended class and was such a good student. I remember her kindly saying to me, “I’m sorry, I recognize you from the front row and know that you made a A in my class; but I don’t know you. I don’t know enough about you to write a scholarship recommendation.” My pride was hurt temporarily; but I quickly understood her message. From that semester forward I made a point to get to know each of my professors and allow them to know me as a student. Because I took a different approach I found the most wonderful mentor who encouraged and helped me apply for both of my graduate programs. Close Window × Patty Kitchen Senior Student Success Coach I I am a proud Okie! I have lived in the Tulsa area my entire life, except when I attended colleges outside of the area. My higher education journey was a long and winding road. It began as a first generation college student taking my very first college class in the summer after I graduated from a small high school. The journey continued over the next 16 years earning my AS in Business from Tulsa Community College and then earning my BSBA in Marketing from Northeastern State University – Tulsa.. Over the next six years, I worked full-time in higher education and completed my MBA from NSU – Muskogee.. One experience that I had to overcome as a freshman student was my being a first generation student. I was unable to ask any of my family about how to navigate college or even what a credit hour was. I self-advised all the way through until I attended NSU-Tulsa. I found an advisor that helped me tremendously in planning my remaining courses to graduate. We found that I needed two additional semesters of coursework from a four-year university to meet degree requirements. My self-advising and attending multiple community colleges put me behind. I was thankful for her patience! We later become colleagues when I became a staff member at NSU-Tulsa. I am able to rely on my own experiences to help students navigate their own higher education journey. I want that journey to be a happy and fulfilling experience without it being a windy road like mine was. I enjoy visiting with students to help them take care of what they may need, but to also get to know them. Establishing a good working relationship with a student will allow us both to work toward their ultimate career and life goals. Every interaction deserves mutual respect and kindness. Close Window × Rochelle Latimer Senior Student Success Coach I have a Bachelor of Arts in Broadcast Journalism/Communications from Langston University, MHR-Master of Human Relations-Counseling from the University of Oklahoma and am currently working on my Master of Education in Social Studies. I discovered later in life that I have a strong desire to help others. I worked as an academic advisor which allowed me to help students but moving into the role of a student success coach has enabled me to work beyond the academic issues and help students in a broader capacity. I have had some unique experiences in my life, and I have come to see those experiences not as hardships but as training so that I can help students overcome various obstacles. My family dealt with some very serious emotional and financial issues while I was attending college. I was not sure how to ask for help or that I even needed help, I felt like I had to deal with all my issues independently because I believed was being an adult. I was sitting in the financial aid office preparing to submit an appeal for financial aid because it was my second time on academic probation, when the administrative assistant, pulled me to the side and asked if she could talk to me briefly. It was within this conversation that she offered me some advice and gave me information about resources on campus that could help me, however, the most important message she provided to me was that it was ok to need help. By accessing the available resources and support, I was able to learn how to positively cope with the challenges I faced, and it resulted in the successful completion of my degree. Close Window × Elisa LeSieur Senior Student Success Coach I grew up in Keshena, Wisconsin on the Menominee Reservation. I am a proud member of the Ho-Chunk Nation of Wisconsin (Bear clan) and descendant of the Menominee Tribe of Wisconsin. I earned my Master of Arts in Counseling and Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration degrees from Lakeland University as well as an Associate degree in Business from Northeast Wisconsin Technical College. My seven-year career in higher education began in July 2014 at Northeast Wisconsin Technical College. More recently, I spent the last two years as an Academic Advisor at Oklahoma State University. I have been at The University of Tulsa since August 2021. As your Student Success Coach, I am committed to providing excellent customer service, timely communication, accurate information, and support. I am here to answer academic-related questions, support your development in skills such as time management, study strategies and goal-setting, and assist you in self-advocacy. As a first-generation college student, I had to learn how to navigate college; this came with many trials and tribulations. During my first attempt at a four-year university, I was academically dismissed due to my poor grades. After taking years off from school, I returned as a single parent and worked full-time. What I learned from my previous experience was to utilize resources, keep an open line of communication, time management, and to focus on my motivation to be in school. Thus, I received three degrees in five years with a 3.97 GPA in my master’s program. My family and I moved to Oklahoma in summer 2019 and currently live in Broken Arrow (GO TIGERS). I enjoy watching reality TV, spending time outdoors, and cheering on my teenage son, Cruz, who plays football. My favorite TV channel is Bravo and I consider myself a Bravoholic. Close Window × Greg McKee Student Success Coach I graduated from the University of Iowa with a publishing-focused bachelor’s in English and creative writing and went on to serve as everything from a representative of a specialty paper manufacturer to a mobile phlebotomist. Though both my college and professional careers have never held a straight path, everything I have done has always come down to one element: helping others. I have always held a deep respect and passion for higher education. As a student, I attended four universities and had three different majors before finally determining where I wanted to go and what I wanted to do. My professors and advisors served a major role in encouraging me to follow my passion and helping me find the tools to success, and I am forever grateful for their help and mentorship. I am incredibly excited to serve as a student success coach to pass on the lessons I’ve learned and help students both succeed in the classroom and thrive in their pre- and post-graduate lives and careers. In my free time, I enjoy editing, reading, and going to the movies with my wife. When I’m not taking quizzes to determine I am 100% a waterbending Ravenclaw, I can be found spoiling our three cats, Milton, Margaret, and Elmer. Close Window × Jack Parsley Student Success Coach I graduated from Baylor University with a B.A. in Journalism and New Media with a minor in Philosophy in 2017. I graduated from the University of Oklahoma with an M.Ed in Adult and Higher Education in 2020. Before coming to TU, I worked in New Student Orientation, Transfer Student Programming, and Community Outreach. I’ve always been drawn to roles where I can help people. The transition to college is such a unique and exciting time in a student’s life, and I love being able to walk with them on this journey and offer support wherever I can. There were several faculty and staff members I worked with during my academic career that I know I would not have graduated without their help. I treasure the opportunity to support students in some of the same ways. During the first year at Baylor, I did a poor job getting involved and making meaningful connections on campus. I came to college with a group of friends from high school, and I spent too much time trying to fit in with the new group that my friends had formed instead of finding my own path. I applied to be an orientation leader on a whim and got the position. Being an orientation leader helped me build the kind of relationships I had been missing. I found out that my place on campus was helping other students go through the transition to college and helping them to avoid the mistakes that I made. I spent my last three years of college working with new student programs, which led me to a career in higher education. Close Window × Lindsey Schneider Student Success Coach I grew up in Stillwater, Oklahoma and graduated from Oklahoma State University in 2003 with a Bachelor of Music degree. After graduating, I began to realize that my interests had evolved, and I was unsure of what I wanted to do next. I spent several years exploring different possibilities before accepting a position as an admission counselor at OSU in 2006. Since that time, my work in student affairs has become a career, and I now have experience in admissions, international student services and academic advising. My journey led me from OSU to the University of California, Riverside before arriving at TU in 2011. I am currently pursuing a master’s degree at OSU in Educational Leadership Studies. As a student success coach, I am committed to ensuring that my students have the knowledge and resources they need to feel confident that they are on the right track. When there are obstacles along the way, my goal is to challenge students to realize their full potential by taking risks, goal setting, and helping them make sense of their experiences. I am committed to practicing holistic advising and to developing relationships with my advisees that are built on trust and respect. I strive to identify barriers that may exist with the goal of providing my advisees with equitable access to information and support and fostering an inclusive environment that meets the diverse needs of today’s students. My partner, Craig, and I were married in 2017 and we have two great kids: Miles and Luca. As a family we enjoy watching SNL, playing board games, cooking, and hanging out with our grand and noble Siberian cat, Dickens. Close Window × Alyssa Walker Student Success Coach Close Window 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT