Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Toggle navigation Advising & Transition Main navigation About Meet Our Staff FAQ Major Specific Advising Advising at Tech Certificates & Minors Find Your Advisor Change of Major Exploratory Advising Exploratory Advising Overview Make an Exploratory Advising Appointment Major Profiles Coaching Academic Coaching Make a Coaching Appointment Courses GT 1000: First-Year Seminar GT 2000: Transfer Student Seminar GT 2100: Success Seminar GT 2801: Study Strategies Seminar Resources Open Search Search Search Meet Our Staff Breadcrumb Home UAT Leadership Team Image Beth Spencer, Ph.D. Director, Undergraduate Advising & Transition beth.spencer@gatech.edu Dr. Beth Spencer worked at Georgia Tech for 10 years in a number of roles, including Senior Assistant Director for the Center for Academic Success (CAS); Pre-Teaching advisor (she was our first); and Academic Advisor II in Biomedical Engineering. Most recently, she served as the Director of the Center for Academic Success at the University of West Georgia. She holds a Ph.D. in History from Georgia State University, a M.Ed. in Adult Education from the University of Georgia, and a M.A. in Modern Social History from the University of Lancaster (UK). Beth collaborates closely with the Complete College Georgia-Georgia Tech (CCG-GT) steering committee to ensure alignment of academic advising with CCG strategies. She works closely with the Registrar’s Office on the development and communication of academic policy and curriculum updates as they relate to advising. Finally, she serves as Georgia Tech’s representative on the USG’s Regent’s Advisory Committee on Academic Advising (RACAD) and advises GTAAN and other campus partners. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Image Nicole Leonard Assistant Director for Coaching & Advising nml@gatech.edu Nicole brings 15 years of advising experience at Georgia Tech to this role. She holds a Master of Business Administration (MBA) from Clayton State University and Certification as a Co-Active Coach. She joined the Honors Program shortly after its founding in 2006, serving as Assistant to the Director and then Academic Advisor before assuming her current role as Advising & Outreach Manager for the Honors Program in 2017. Nicole has advised and mentored generations of Honors Program students from all majors. During this time, she has also pursued additional leadership training through participation in the Georgia Tech ASPIRE program, Center for Deliberate Innovation Change Accelerator, and Inclusive Leaders Academy. Nicole has served as a Georgia Tech Leadership Education and Development (LEAD) Leadership Fellow Coach for several years and as an instructor for several courses, including GT 1000, GT special topic, GT innovation internship, and Vertically Integrated Projects (VIP) courses. She has been a member of the Georgia Tech Academic Advisor Network (GTAAN) since 2008, serving as Vice President of Programming from 2012-2014, and a member of the National Academic Advising Association (NACADA) since 2009, delivering a paper “I Got it from NACADA: Incorporating Life Coaching Techniques into an Advisor’s Toolbox” at a regional conference in 2016. She was recently recognized by the Women of Georgia Tech Employee Resource Group as a L.O.V.E (Living Our Values Every Day) Nominee. UAT Staff Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Image Savitra Dow Academic Transition Program & Operations Manager savitra.dow@gatech.edu Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Image Crystal Fowler Administrative Professional Sr. crystal.fowler@gatech.edu Crystal Fowler earned her Bachelors of Science in Business Administration with a Concentration in Management from Southern Polytechnic State University (post consolidation known as Kennesaw State). Crystal has been working in higher education for 4 and a half years across different departments at Georgia State University. Recently while at State; she worked in the Office of Undergraduate Admissions as an Enrollment Services Assistant assuring students exceptional customer service and rapid decisions to ensure their success at the institution. While she was able to adapt to the office’s ever changing environment, she decided it was time for a transition of her own. As a new edition to Georgia Tech; she plans to use all that she has learned and creative skills to ensure the success of the students and the advisors of the OUE. Aside from her university duties, Crystal enjoys volunteering, reading, enjoying different genres of music and is excited to begin her first year as a professional dancer performing with the WNBA’s Atlanta Dream Shooting Stars dance team. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Image Sydnee Henry Academic Coach shenry39@gatech.edu Sydnee Henry earned a Bachelor of Science in Architecture from Georgia Tech and is currently pursuing her Master’s of Architecture degree. With her degrees, Sydnee hopes to aid in diversifying the field of Architecture and Design. While in undergrad she worked for the Office of Minority Education and Development as an EDGE Mentor and a Challenge counselor. Her roles in OMED fostered her love for helping other students and pushing them to be their best and authentic selves. Aside from studying and work, Sydnee spends her time watching anime, traveling , and helping her little sister with her homework. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Image De’Angelo Neely Academic Coach Financial Administrator III (Office of the Provost/Executive Vice Provost for Academic Affairs) deangelo.neely@gatech.edu 404-385-4255 De’Angelo earned his bachelor’s degree in Criminal Justice with an emphasis in Juvenile Law and his Master of Communications degree from Lindenwood University in Saint Louis, MO. Before coming to Georgia Tech, he worked in Finance for one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the U.S. His time there prepared him for a career in Academia which started in April 2015. De’Angelo, continues to work in Finance for the Provost Office and in additional to his main role he works as an Academic Coach and GT 1000 Instructor. He was awarded GT 1000 Instructor of the Year 2020 and will continue his work as a resource and ally to the Tech community.. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Image Patricia Rangel Academic Coach patricia.rangel@gatech.edu Patricia Rangel's twenty-four-year career in education has led me from Birmingham, Alabama, to Australia, East Timor, and Seattle, Washington. I have taught everything from preschool to graduate school and maintained a foot in the creative world during the duration. Over a year ago Atlanta became home and in 2020, I began a second career where I am currently earning a Master in Architecture from Georgia Tech. I was fortunate enough to be the child of two Colombian immigrants who, despite their own limited opportunities, made sacrifices to ensure I had a quality education and enriching life experiences. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Image Russell Wallis IT Support Professional Lead russell.wallis@gatech.edu Russell earned a B.S. in Physics and an M.S. in Computer Science from the University of West Georgia. He has held positions at the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of West Georgia, where he was responsible for lab and classroom technology in the Technology Enhanced Learning Center, and in Douglas County schools, where he managed a team responsible for all of the technology needs for ten elementary schools. In the Center for Career Discovery and Development at Georgia Tech (now the GT Career Center), he supported the efforts of the staff, student, and employers daily to make use of laptops for remote advisement, CareerBuzz for Employer/Student interaction, and C3M for on campus recruiting management. In addition to his role with the GT Career Center, Russell also supported a wide variety of user systems and applications for the Office of Undergraduate Education. Russell is now the Salesforce Administrator for the undergraduate advising platform Advisor Link in Undergraduate Advising and Transition. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Advising & Transition Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Advising & Transition Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education