Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Undergraduate Advising Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link History & Mission Contact Us Advising Appointments Select to follow link Undergraduate Advising Center Information Departmental Advising People Select to follow link Professional Staff Graduate Assistant Program Major & Degree Information Select to follow link Major Exploration KU Academic Terminology Majors: Update | Declare | Apply Minors Special Programs & Certificates Enrollment & Schedule Changes Select to follow link Enrollment Enrollment Holds Add/Swap/Drop/Repeat KU Core Jayhawk GPS Credit Information Select to follow link Credit/No Credit Transfer Credits to KU Transfer Credits from KU Academic Calendar Transcript Ordering Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Undergraduate Advising Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Credit Information Credit/No Credit Credit/No Credit Policy Full semester courses and short courses have different academic deadlines. Always check the deadlines on the KU Academic Calendar. What is Credit/No Credit? Credit/No Credit (CR/NC) is a policy that allows you to take courses without receiving final grades that factor into your GPA calculations. If you are enrolled an CR/NC course: Credit (CR) is earned if you receive a grade of A through C-. CR fulfills degree requirements and allows you to move forward in course sequencing. No Credit (NC) is earned if you receive a grade D+ through F for a course. NC does not fulfill degree requirements. This option is usually available for a limited time at the beginning of a semester, between the 21st and 30th instructional day. Read the full Credit/No Credit policy. Who should I consult with before electing to take a class for CR/NC? Your academic advisor - listed in Jayhawk GPS within "Your Success Team" Your major, minor, or future major department when considering electing CR/NC for a class that will count towards degree requirements. Notice: CR/NC allowance is up to the major/minor department or professional school you plan on graduating from, not the department in which you are taking the course. Example: Pre-Business students should consult with the School of Business before taking any degree requirements for CR/NC for MATH 115, ACCT 200, etc. Check on your current grade and points left possible in a class before electing to take it for CR/NC. It may be helpful to calculate your GPA and/or consult with the Office of Financial Aid & Scholarships for assistance. Why might I opt-in to Credit/No Credit? Some students choose this option if they want to prevent a low grade in a class from damaging a GPA but still need to earn credit and complete the class. (CR) Credit - fulfills degree requirements, and allows you to move forward in course sequencing. (NC) No Credit - does not fulfill degree requirements. Receiving NC for a course can often lead to a student having to repeat the course if it is still needed to graduate. What courses are eligible? This varies greatly per class. It's important to consider why you are taking a course. Is it a KU Core requirement? Is it a class you are taking for admission into a Professional School or Graduate level program? Is it a class that is required for your major? Is it a class that is needed for licensure? These are all questions academic units consider. Typically, CR/NC may not be used for classes in your major or minor. There are also courses that require a final grade due to licensure requirements. Some programs use "default" grades for students who take classes as CR/NC when it comes to calculating GPA for admission purposes. How do I opt-in? Fill out the online Credit/No Credit Election form for spring and/or fall. You can also access the forms in your Enroll & Pay account. To reverse any CR/NC decisions you have made, complete the Rescind Credit/No Credit form. You will need to use your KU online ID and password to log in. Have a question? Send us a chat. null Summerfield Hall, Room 315 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 advising@ku.edu 785-864-2834 facebook instagram twitter youtube Major Exploration KU Orientation Academic Calendar KU Core Credit Transfer Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.