Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Us What is Advising? Advisors Administrative Staff Contact Us Advising Current Students Incoming Students Student Athletes Transfer Students For Parents and Families Choosing a Major Deciding on a Major Explore Majors and Minors Explore Resources from Career Services How to Declare Career Planning Pre-Health Advising Pre-Law Advising Academic Credit for Internships Career Services Resources Academic Policies and Academic Catalog Academic Support AP/IB/A-Level Equivalencies Core Curriculum Course Advisor Archive Degree Audit Forms GPA Calculator Online Language Placement Schedule of Classes Transfer Credit Staff/Faculty Advisor Resources Faculty Resources Advisor of the Day Make an Appointment Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Close Welcome, New Students! Click here, https://advising.tulane.edu/advising/incoming, for our Incoming Students website which contains details that will be helpful to you as you begin to navigate your academic journey at Tulane. If you haven’t yet registered for a June CAST advising and registration appointment to complete your registration for the Fall 2022 semester, please review your emails from the Office of Admission which contain the scheduling link and additional details you can use to prepare for your appointment. Home / Resources / Core Curriculum Core Curriculum The Newcomb-Tulane College core curriculum is designed to provide a common structure to undergraduate study while remaining flexible enough for students to explore and experiment with many academic fields. The core curriculum ensures that students attain basic competencies in writing, formal reasoning, foreign language, scientific inquiry, cultural knowledge and expression, and interdisciplinary scholarship. Review the Core Curriculum Checklists and Guides Entered Tulane in Fall 2018 or later Use the Core Curriculum Checklist to plan your schedule and academic pathway. Entered Tulane prior to Fall 2018 Use the 2018 Core Curriculum Guide to get an explanation of each requirement. Use the 2017-2018 Grid to see individual school requirements side by side. Academic Policies and Academic Catalog Academic Support AP/IB/A-Level Equivalencies Core Curriculum Course Advisor Archive Degree Audit Forms GPA Calculator Online Language Placement Schedule of Classes Transfer Credit Rich Text Widget as sidebar menu Link 1 Link 2 Link 3 Link to Tulane Home Page ADVISING Mussafer Hall Newcomb-Tulane College Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5798 advising@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Newcomb-Tulane College SOPA Advising Career Services Office of the University Registrar Undergraduate Admission News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University