Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Undergraduate Advising Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link History & Mission Contact Us Advising Appointments Select to follow link Undergraduate Advising Center Information Departmental Advising People Select to follow link Professional Staff Graduate Assistant Program Major & Degree Information Select to follow link Major Exploration KU Academic Terminology Majors: Update | Declare | Apply Minors Special Programs & Certificates Enrollment & Schedule Changes Select to follow link Enrollment Enrollment Holds Add/Swap/Drop/Repeat KU Core Jayhawk GPS Credit Information Select to follow link Credit/No Credit Transfer Credits to KU Transfer Credits from KU Academic Calendar Transcript Ordering Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Undergraduate Advising Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Enrollment & Schedule Changes Enrollment Holds Enrollment holds are restrictions—it may mean that documentation is missing, that you need to meet with an advisor, or that some other action is required. Please view all enrollment holds at the University that could potentially impact enrollment. Your holds will always be within Enroll & Pay. Most Common Enrollment Holds ADM-Admissions Hold: Students who need to send their official, final high school transcript and/or test scores to the Office of Admissions. Student Responsibility: Send final high school transcript or test scores to the admissions office Contact: Office of Admissions, 785-864-3911, adm@ku.edu ADV-Welcome Advising Hold: Students in their first semester Student Responsibility: Meet with an academic advisor before enrolling in the next semester. Contact: Schedule a UAC appointment with your assigned advisor in Jayhawk GPS. ALC-Mandatory Alcohol Education Hold: Students who have not completed both required alcohol education course by the given deadlines. Access the alcohol education course using your official KU online ID and password. Student Responsibility: Complete Part 1 and Part 2 of the alcohol education by the deadlines given. If you have completed Part 1 but are waiting for Part 2 to become available to you and are ready to enroll (and you have no other enrollment holds on your account and your enrollment is open), Watkins Health Services can temporarily remove your hold for 24 hours so that you can enroll in your next semester classes. They will only remove the hold once. Give them a call! Contact: Watkins Health Services/Student Health Policy Compliance information, 785-864-9533 ATH-Student Athlete Hold: Students who are athletes Student Responsibility: Students need to speak with their sport advisor before enrolling in the next semester. Contact: KU Athletics AEC-Applied English Center Hold: International students who are either in the Applied English Center or the Academic Accelerated Program Student Responsibility: Meet with the Applied English Center or Academic Accelerated Program staff before enrolling in the next semester. Students gather enrollment allowances and attend enrollment meetings with the AEC before holds can be removed. Contact: Applied English Center, 785-864-4606, aec@ku.edu IMM- Immunization Hold: Students who have not submitted immunization records to Watkins Health Services Student Responsibility: Obtain all required immunization records and submit via your student health portal. There are 2 steps to submitting your immunization records: 1. Enter your immunization history through the student health portal. Login using your official KU online ID and password, and go to the Medical Clearances tab to manually enter your immunizations and dates. 2. Submit official documentation by scanning and uploading the documentation to verify your immunization history under the Medical Clearances tab and Immunization Upload. Contact: Watkins Health Services/Student Health Policy Compliance information, 785-864-9533 NPY-Past Due Balance Hold: Students who have a balance that needs to be paid to the University Student Responsibility: Pay the minimum balance needed to lift the hold. Once the balance is paid online the hold will be removed within 30 minutes. Contact: Student Accounts and Receivables, 785-864-3322 PKL-Parking Hold: Students who have an unpaid parking ticket Student Responsibility: Pay the parking ticket online. Once ticket is paid, the parking hold will be removed within 30 minutes. Contact: Parking and Transit Office, 785-864-7275 PRB-CLAS Academic Standing Hold: Students who are on academic probation or notice and have not completed the academic action plan Student Responsibility: Meet with an academic advisor to complete the academic action plan. Contact: Schedule a UAC appointment with your assigned advisor in Jayhawk GPS. TBQ and TBW-Tuberculosis Hold: Students who have not yet completed required screening for Tuberculosis Student Responsibility: Complete any additional screening required by Watkins Health Services. You may have completed the questionnaire as part of the enrollment process but additional information may be needed based on the information you provided. Contact: Watkins Health Services/Student Health Policy Compliance information, 785-864-9533 SL1/SL2- VP Student Affairs Hold: Students who have yet to complete a University sanction Student Responsibility: Students need to complete the required sanction or speak with the University staff member who administered the sanction to the student. Contact: Student Conduct and Community Standards, 785-864-4060 SXH-Sexual Harassment Education Hold: Students who have not completed the online sexual harassment education Student Responsibility: Complete the online sexual harassment module, or check your KU email for information. Contact: Sexual Assault Prevention and Education Center, 785-864-5879 Summerfield Hall, Room 315 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 advising@ku.edu 785-864-2834 facebook instagram twitter youtube Major Exploration KU Orientation Academic Calendar KU Core Credit Transfer Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.