Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Toggle navigation Advising & Transition Main navigation About Meet Our Staff FAQ Major Specific Advising Advising at Tech Certificates & Minors Find Your Advisor Change of Major Exploratory Advising Exploratory Advising Overview Make an Exploratory Advising Appointment Major Profiles Coaching Academic Coaching Make a Coaching Appointment Courses GT 1000: First-Year Seminar GT 2000: Transfer Student Seminar GT 2100: Success Seminar GT 2801: Study Strategies Seminar Resources Open Search Search Search Resources Breadcrumb Home Student Resources Time Management The number one topic of conversation in our Center is time management, that elusive creature. Between classes, personal projects, a social life, and perhaps a job...well, how does one fit all that into a week? Oh yeah, and sleep! All of this is possible with the tools we have gathered. Semester at a Glance Weekly Schedule Weekly Agenda Common Reasons for Procrastination Tips to Avoid Procrastination Personal Time Calculation Organization and Focus Having a plan is one thing: sticking to it and maximizing your effort is another. With so many opportunities it is easy to get lost in all that static. Let us help you with the resources below. Tips on Beginning Class (Handout) Cornell Note-Taking for Math (Handout) Cornell Note-Taking (Handout) Motivation & Goals Let's face it: college is a journey but one which is infinitely easier if you know what you're here for. We also need to acknowledge that college is a growth experience and your motivations and dreams can change. Here are some resources to help you get or stay on track. Setting SMART Goals (Worksheet) Mapping Class Goals (Worksheet) Stop + Start + Keep Doing (Worksheet) Faculty Communication Faculty are a critical component of your success at Georgia Tech but it isn't always easy to know how best to connect with them. Here are some tips to help you communicate with your professors. Work Successfully with Professors Study Strategies Cramming is not your friend. Let's repeat that for people in the back: CRAMMING IS NOT YOUR FRIEND. So...how should you study? The most successful students are those willing to experiment and adapt, to try something new and constantly tweak their practices to arrive at what works best. Here are some options that can help you work smarter instead of harder. PLRS Learning Cycle Estimate Weekly Study Hours (Worksheet) Strategic Studying + Learning Styles (Handout) Pomodoro Technique Test Prep Does your professor seem to have an inordinate fondness for high stakes tests? Do you feel unprepared for condensing weeks or months of knowledge into a 50-minute period? Check out the resources below for tips to help you hone your retention and recall. How to Study for Finals One Third Test Prep Model Metacognition (Learn how to Learn) Learning how to learn is the single-most important skill, one that can see you to success beyond the halls of Georgia Tech. There are many schools of thought around this subject, from learning styles to growth vs. fixed mindset. Bloom's Taxonomy How Gritty Are You? On Demand Workshops Want to learn more about Time Management, Study Strategies, Test Prep, and other Academic Success skills? Check out our On-Demand Workshop series, available whenever you need them! On Demand Workshop Series Blank Space (medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Request a Workshop UAT offers in-person and virtual workshops for Georgia Tech classes, departments, and student organizations. Just fill out the form linked below and a UAT staff member will follow up with you within 48 hours. Request a Workshop Advising & Transition Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Advising & Transition Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education