Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with Your Student Success Coach New Student Advising and Enrollment Preparing for Advising and Enrollment Resources for Faculty Mentors Student Resources Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Academic Advising > Advising Forms Advising Forms ACADEMIC ADVISING Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with Your Student Success Coach New Student Advising and Enrollment Preparing for Advising and Enrollment Resources for Faculty Mentors Student Resources Complete Withdrawal Form (Upon completion of this form, please schedule an appointment to meet with your assigned advisor in the Center for Academic Advising. Please also review: Recommended Steps for Withdrawing Students) Declaration of Major, Minor and Certificate DROP/WITHDRAW/ADD Form- Undergraduate Students(if you are dropping or withdrawing from all courses, please use the complete withdrawal form linked above) Pass/D/F Request Form (please consult the Academic Calendar, University Bulletin, and your Academic Advisor for policies related to your Pass/D/F declaration prior to submitting the request) Readmission for Returning Students Student Request to Disclose Information (FERPA release) Transfer Course Request (Must be completed prior to enrolling in a course at another college or university; please review the information found on the I’m Planning to Take a Transfer Course…Now What? page for more information) Engineering and Natural Sciences Specific Forms 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT