Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Toggle navigation Advising & Transition Main navigation About Meet Our Staff FAQ Major Specific Advising Advising at Tech Certificates & Minors Find Your Advisor Change of Major Exploratory Advising Exploratory Advising Overview Make an Exploratory Advising Appointment Major Profiles Coaching Academic Coaching Make a Coaching Appointment Courses GT 1000: First-Year Seminar GT 2000: Transfer Student Seminar GT 2100: Success Seminar GT 2801: Study Strategies Seminar Resources Open Search Search Search Change of Major Breadcrumb Home General Change of Major Information First-year students may not change majors until after the deadline for withdrawal from classes (W deadline) in Fall semester. Non-transfer students are allowed one unrestricted change of major prior to earning 60 hours. There are a few majors that have been granted exceptions to this rule (ME, ISYE, Music Technology). After earning 60 hours, students are only allowed to change majors at the discretion of the new major. Transfer students are only granted changes at the discretion of the new major. The GT Change-of-Major form is available from the Registrar’s website, as is information about general change-of-major policy. Students considering a Change of Major are also encouraged to make an appointment with an Exploratory Advisor. Appointments can be made in AdvisorLink. To learn more about the specific change of major requirements for each major, please refer to the information in the table below. Blank Space (medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) College of Computing Computational Media Students MUST attend a Change of Major session. Computer Science All students MUST complete a Change of major module. Sophomores-Seniors must also complete an intro CS course and earn a C or higher There are also Minor Interest Meetings on the CS Minors. College of Design Architecture Contact academic advising office. Industrial Design Schedule an advising appointment in Advisor Link or email Troy Whyte. Building Construction Contact Laura Alger via Advisor Link for an appointment. Music Technology Meet with Chris Moore. College of Engineering Aerospace Engineering Students must meet with Dr. Lakshmi Sankar. (During the month of October, email Dr. Sankar to schedule a meeting. Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering All students are encouraged to register for and attend a change-of-major meeting. Continuing students with 30 or more hours of credit must meet certain requirements, detailed on website. Electrical & Computer Engineering Visit advising office during walk-in times. Material Science & Engineering Meet with either Dr. Mary Lynn Realff, Ms. Shirley Manchester, or Ms. Renita Washington. Click here for more information and here for additional helpful tips. Nuclear & Radiological Engineering Process: Drop off form at front desk in MRDC 3112 and plan to pick it up next business day. To meet with an advisor to discuss major exploration, use GradesFirst to schedule an appointment Students beyond their second semester at Tech, those who have already made one change-of-major, and all transfer students, must meet NRE requirements. Click here for details. NRE: Students who have earned 60 or more hours must meet specific requirements Biomedical Engineering Make an appointment (change/addition of major) with BME in Advisor Link. More information here. Civil & Environmental Engineering Attend an Info Session (registration required). Walk-ins are fine for changing OUT of major. Industrial Engineering All students must register for and attend an Information Session. Students beyond their second semester, as well as freshmen who have already made one change-of-major, must meet several requirements, which are detailed on the website Mechanical Engineering In order for you to be fully prepared to major in Mechanical Engineering (ME), all students are required to complete the Change of Major Module in Canvas. https://gatech.instructure.com/enroll/HK3J6D It is comprised of 6 short videos that showcase important information regarding an overview of Mechanical Engineering, the curriculum guide, advisor/student expectations, and how to complete the change of major form. This will take about 20 minutes to complete. There is a short assessment to confirm your understanding of the information reviewed in the video portion of the module. You are not obligated to change your major if you complete the Change of Major module. If you have additional questions or need further assistance with the change of major process, please contact the ME advisor that will be assigned to you. Additional instructions can be found in the Canvas module. Next Steps: Once the Change of Major form has been signed by your current major and the ME department, it is solely the student's responsibility to turn the form into the Registrar’s Office. Registrar’s Office is located on the first floor of Tech Tower. The form can also be emailed to the registrar’s Office at comments@registrar.gatech.edu. If you turn your form into the Registrar’s Office after Phase 2 Registration closes for the semester, your change of major will go into effect during the following semester. College of Sciences Biochemistry Meet with Dr. Amanda Stephens to discuss major and for signatures. amanda.stephens@chemistry.gatech.edu Chemistry Meet with Amanda Stephens to discuss major and for signatures. Mathematics Contact Dr. Enid Steinbart or schedule an appointment in Advisor Link. Click here for more information Physics Contact Dr. Martin Jarrio to schedule a meeting. Biology Schedule change/addition of major meeting with a Biology advisor. Earth & Atmospheric Science Meet with Dr. Zachary Handlos or Dr. Samantha Wilson by either emailing her or schedule an appointment in Advisor Link. http://zachary.handlos@eas.gatech.edu http://samantha.wilson@eas.gatech.edu Neuroscience Schedule an appointment with Dr. Mary Holder in Advisor Link. For more information on this new major, click here. Psychology Schedule an appointment with Mary Holder in Advisor Link. Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Applied Language & Intercultural Studies Schedule an advising appointment with Dr. Mirla Gonzalez in Advisor Link. http://mgonzalez96@gatech.edu Economics Email Dr. Whitney Buser (wbuser3@gatch.edu) for an appointment or stop by walk-in hours (10-4, M-F) in Old CE Bldg, rm. 208 International Affairs Students interested in International Affairs (INTA) should meet with Ms. Stephanie Jackson and can schedule an appointment in Advisor Link. Public Policy Schedule an appointment with Ms. Leslie Ross in Advisor Link. NOTE: Students interested in majors such as Econ & International Affairs, or Global Economics and Modern Languages, or International Affairs and Modern Languages should meet with the advisors in both areas Computational Media All students MUST attend a Change of Major meeting. Click here for more information History, Technology, & Society Schedule an appointment with Dr. Amy D’Unger in Advisor Link. Additional information and resources for students interested in changing to or adding the HTS major are available here. Literature, Media, & Communication Schedule an appointment with Amanda Blocker via Advisor Link. Scheller College of Business Business Administration Scheller has several required steps for changing majors, detailed here. Be sure to plan ahead in order to be ready for the BSBA Preparation Meeting Advising & Transition Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Advising & Transition Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education