Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Undergraduate Advising Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link History & Mission Contact Us Advising Appointments Select to follow link Undergraduate Advising Center Information Departmental Advising People Select to follow link Professional Staff Graduate Assistant Program Major & Degree Information Select to follow link Major Exploration KU Academic Terminology Majors: Update | Declare | Apply Minors Special Programs & Certificates Enrollment & Schedule Changes Select to follow link Enrollment Enrollment Holds Add/Swap/Drop/Repeat KU Core Jayhawk GPS Credit Information Select to follow link Credit/No Credit Transfer Credits to KU Transfer Credits from KU Academic Calendar Transcript Ordering Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Undergraduate Advising Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Enrollment & Schedule Changes Add/Swap/Drop/Repeat UAC advisors are here to help! Make an appointment with an advisor at the Undergraduate Advising Center if you have questions about enrolling, dropping, swapping, or repeating classes or would like direct assistance. Sometimes dropping a course can negatively impact such things as financial aid, health insurance, or housing. Let us help you seamlessly add, drop, swap, or repeat classes to fully understand the positive and negative outcomes! If you are ready to add, drop, or swap a class, visit the Student Information Systems how-to resource. You may also want to access the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences policies and forms for more information. Adding a Class First, schedule with an advisor at the Undergraduate Advising Center to discuss the class works with your degree plan and will not conflict with other classes in your schedule. Check the KU Academic Calendar to see if you can add a class online or if you must obtain written permission to join a class. View instructions on how to add a course. Dropping or Withdrawing from a Course What does it mean when I withdraw from a class? When you withdraw from a class, a "W" will appear on your transcript, and you will no longer be enrolled in this class. There may be certain consequences for a "W" on your transcript, and you should talk with an advisor to make sure that withdrawal will not negatively affect your housing, insurance, or financial aid. Be sure and check the KU Academic Calendar for deadlines and refund policies for withdrawal. First period drop: This is the timeframe in which students can withdraw from a course(s) and not receive a "W" on their transcript. Second Period Drop: See the Registrar’s official KU Academic Calendar to find out the last day to withdraw from a class. Dates will also be modified for short courses still in progress. Check the KU Academic Calendar for the corresponding semester. I need to drop a class. What do I do? First, schedule with your Undergraduate Advising Center advisor to talk about why you need to drop and to make sure that it will not negatively affect your degree progress, GPA, or financial aid. The day in which you choose to drop a course also changes how much money you receive back from your student bill. KU has 100%, 50%, and 0% refund periods each semester. Always check your dates via the KU Academic Calendar! Next, check the KU Academic Calendar to see if you can still drop a class online or if you must obtain written permission to drop or join a new class. It is better to use the swap feature than to drop and add. Notice: Short term/short courses have different academic deadlines than courses that meet for a whole semester. Keep track of those deadlines to make sure they don't sneak up on you. What if I drop below 12 credit hours? Dropping below 12 hours means that you are no longer a full-time student. This can have serious consequences for housing, scholarships, financial aid and grants, sports, and insurance coverage, among other things. Please talk to an Undergraduate Advising Center advisor or the appropriate academic department before dropping below 12 credit hours. Consider your options and the impact before dropping a course by accessing the withdraw considerations resource. View instructions on how to drop a course. Swapping Courses I need to drop one class and get into another. How do I do that? When you're switching from one class into another, do not drop a class and then add another. Instead, switch classes using the "Swap" function in Enroll and Pay. This guarantees that you are not blocked out of classes by keeping you in your original class as it switches you into a new one. It is always best to swap courses within the same refund period. Not doing so within the same refund period can affect your tuition amount and/or financial aid. Schedule an appointment with your UAC advisor for assistance. What if the course I want to add is closed? Schedule with your Undegraduate Advising Center advisor to talk about this situation. There may be another course you could substitute, you might be able to wait until another semester to take the course, or there may be an additional strategy available. Every situation is different! Repeating a Course Can I repeat a course? If you earn a D or an F in a class numbered from 000-299, then you may repeat the course. The lower grade earned will remain on your transcript but will not be counted in your KU GPA. The course repeat policy may not be used more than five times. After that, you still may repeat a course, but grades from a repeated course will be averaged with previous attempts and will not replace a grade. There are some restrictions and limits on the Course Repeat Policy. Talk with an Undergraduate Advising Center advisor by appointment. Have a question? Send us a chat. null Summerfield Hall, Room 315 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 advising@ku.edu 785-864-2834 facebook instagram twitter youtube Major Exploration KU Orientation Academic Calendar KU Core Credit Transfer Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.