Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Undergraduate Advising Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link History & Mission Contact Us Advising Appointments Select to follow link Undergraduate Advising Center Information Departmental Advising People Select to follow link Professional Staff Graduate Assistant Program Major & Degree Information Select to follow link Major Exploration KU Academic Terminology Majors: Update | Declare | Apply Minors Special Programs & Certificates Enrollment & Schedule Changes Select to follow link Enrollment Enrollment Holds Add/Swap/Drop/Repeat KU Core Jayhawk GPS Credit Information Select to follow link Credit/No Credit Transfer Credits to KU Transfer Credits from KU Academic Calendar Transcript Ordering Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Undergraduate Advising Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Enrollment & Schedule Changes Enrollment Where Do I Enroll? All KU students enroll on their own in the Enroll & Pay system on or after their enrollment date and time. You will receive an email with this information. Once you have met with your advisor, have all the courses you would like to enroll in, and have had any enrollment holds removed, you are ready to choose your class times and enroll. Your advisor will help you choose what classes you should enroll in for future semesters to remain on progress for your degree, but students are expected to create their own weekly schedule and enroll on their own. You can use KU's Schedule of Classes tool to look up classes you want to enroll in and see the days and times they are offered by looking up individual courses. Enrollment Timeline The Schedule of Classes tool for the upcoming semester is typically released at the end of March (for the summer and fall) and at the end of September (for the spring). View KU class options. Next, you are given your enrollment time. This comes via email from the Office of the Registrar every semester. Your enrollment time is based upon the number of hours you have completed. Your enrollment time refers to the moment Enroll & Pay grants you access to officially secure your seats in the upcoming semester. Finally, you will be contacted by your advisor to schedule your enrollment appointment. This is what we advisors call your “meetings” with us to choose your courses! We always encourage you to come see us before your enrollment time opens. Helpful How-To Resources The following print resources are available by email. Please send requests to UAC at advising@ku.edu. Enroll & Pay - Student Instructions (.pdf) Adding a Class (.pdf) Adding a Waitlisted Class (.pdf) Schedule an Appointment Access Jayhawk GPS. Email your advisor; find your advisor via Jayhawk GPS within "Your Success Team." Email the Undergraduate Advising Center. Contact your departmental advisor. All UAC appointments are held in Central Time Zone either in-person or via Zoom. You will receive a confirmation and reminder email with detailed information and/or the Zoom link. Helpful Enrollment Tools List Jayhawk GPS Schedule an appointment, see deadlines, view your class schedule, etc. Enroll & Pay Enroll, access academic records, check degree progress, etc. List Schedule Builder Navigate the schedule planning and enrollment process. Degree Progress Report Track your progress toward degree completion. Have a question? Send us a chat. null Summerfield Hall, Room 315 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 advising@ku.edu 785-864-2834 facebook instagram twitter youtube Major Exploration KU Orientation Academic Calendar KU Core Credit Transfer Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.