Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Toggle navigation Advising & Transition Main navigation About Meet Our Staff FAQ Major Specific Advising Advising at Tech Certificates & Minors Find Your Advisor Change of Major Exploratory Advising Exploratory Advising Overview Make an Exploratory Advising Appointment Major Profiles Coaching Academic Coaching Make a Coaching Appointment Courses GT 1000: First-Year Seminar GT 2000: Transfer Student Seminar GT 2100: Success Seminar GT 2801: Study Strategies Seminar Resources Open Search Search Search Major Profiles Breadcrumb Home Business Administration Study the history, theory, and application of business principles to enter the workforce with a technology-based business degree. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) College of Business Computer Science Study programming, computation, and computers to learn the necessary skills to solve problems and build software for a better world. Computational Media Study the creative intersection of design and computer science. Leverage your computer science technical skills with an understanding of media and visual design. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Computer Science Blank Space (large) (text and background only visible when logged in) Computational Media Architecture Study the art and science of planning and designing buildings and physical structures. Learn to solve problems and apply new technologies to address the challenges of building a better world. Building Construction Study the management and strategy side to building and construction. Obtain infrastructure management positions by learning how to problem solve, coordinate a team, and finance a project. Industrial Design The study of the process of designing manufactured physical products. Prepares students for a design-oriented career to innovate new products and problem solve for future generations. Music Technology Design and develop new ways to make music through the intersection of engineering, computer science, psychology, and music composition and theory. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Architecture Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Building Construction Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Industrial Design Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Music Technology Computers + Engineering Computer Engineering Research, design, develop, and test computer systems and components such as processors, circuit boards, memory devices, networks, and routers. Electrical Engineering Design, develop, test, and supervise the manufacture of electrical equipment. Chemistry + Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Use chemistry as the foundation for designing, modifying, and manufacturing chemicals (fuel, synthetic foods and pharmaceuticals). Materials Science Engineering Use chemistry principles to understand the properties for materials and how to alter the molecular structure of materials to meet design needs. Business + Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Apply engineering, computer science, and analytical principles to the optimization of systems. Problem solve to improve efficiency of manufacturing and business operations. Physics + Engineering Aerospace Engineering Use physics principles to design aircrafts, spacecrafts, satellites for careers in commercial airlines, defense, NASA, SpaceX and more. Biomedical Engineering Design medical devices for use in hospitals (dialysis, surgical machinery) and long-term care (pacemakers, prosthetics, hearing-support). Civil Engineering Design and innovate the systems, technologies, and structures of our modern world and solve problems onsite. Mechanical Engineering The broadest of the engineering disciplines, combining principles from mechanical systems, thermal systems, manufacturing, and design. Environmental Engineering Use the principles of engineering, soil science, biology, and chemistry to develop solutions to environmental problems. Nuclear and Radiological Engineering A field of engineering concerned with the innovation and application of nuclear energy systems and radiation to medicine and industry. Blank Space (medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Computer Engineering Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Electrical Engineering Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Materials Science Engineering Blank Space (medium) (text and background only visible when logged in) Industrial and Systems Engineering Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Aerospace Engineering Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Biomedical Engineering Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Civil Engineering Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Mechanical Engineering Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Environmental Engineering Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Nuclear and Radiological Engineering Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies Study modern languages in the context of culture, communication, science, and industry to prepare students to be well-rounded global citizens and work internationally. Economics Study the production, consumption, and transfer of commerce on a micro and macro scale to prepare for a career in finance, policy, accounting, or some other related field. Economics and International Affairs Understand how economics plays a role in international policy and foreign relations to lead to careers in finance, policy, business, or government work. International Affairs Study of the interactions between nation states on the global stage. Understand how politics, economics, and culture shape the world we live in to pursue internationally-focused careers. International Affairs and Modern Languages Accompany your study of international relations with a modern language of your choice to better understand the policies and politics of another country or region. Global Economics and Modern Languages Supplement a traditional economics degree with a modern language to better understand the world market and prepare for internationally oriented careers in finance, policy, business, or government. History, Technology, and Society A multidisciplinary major that focuses on global issues related to the origin and impact of science, technology, and culture. Literature, Media, and Communication Learn valuable skills to lead and communicate ideas effectively to pursue a wide variety of careers related to film, writing, advertising, design, or academia. Public Policy Learn about policy making and the system of laws that govern a group of people on a local, state, and national level to pursue a career related to government or policy making. Blank Space () (text and background only visible when logged in) Applied Languages & Intercultural Studies Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Economics Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Economics & International Affairs Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) International Affairs Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) International Affairs & Modern Languages Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Global Economics & Modern Languages Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) History, Technology, & Society Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Literature, Media, & Communication Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Public Policy Biochemistry Apply chemistry to the study of living organisms and biological processes and systems to prepare students for careers related to research, medicine, and healthcare. Biology The study of life and living organisms. This major gives students the necessary skills and knowledge to thrive in the fields of research, medicine, and healthcare. Earth & Atmospheric Sciences The study of weather and earth processes to prepare students to solve pressing issues related to global warming, energy resources, water supply, and natural disasters in their respective careers. Mathematics A versatile degree that studies the relationship between numbers, statistics, and patterns with an emphasis on problem solving to lead to a mathematically- oriented career in a multitude of fields. Neuroscience Students will be exposed to behavioral and cognitive science, molecular and cellular science, as well as systems neuroscience to thrive in fields related to research, healthcare, and medicine. Physics Study the complexities of the universe and develop the necessary analytic and mathematical skills to be a valuable asset in a variety of careers and academic disciplines. Psychology Study human behavior and mental processes to better understand the complexities of human nature for a career in healthcare/social work, management, research, or academia. Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Biochemistry Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Biology Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Earth and Atmospheric Science Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Mathematics Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Neuroscience Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Physics Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Psychology Advising & Transition Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Advising & Transition Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education