Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Undergraduate Advising Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link History & Mission Contact Us Advising Appointments Select to follow link Undergraduate Advising Center Information Departmental Advising People Select to follow link Professional Staff Graduate Assistant Program Major & Degree Information Select to follow link Major Exploration KU Academic Terminology Majors: Update | Declare | Apply Minors Special Programs & Certificates Enrollment & Schedule Changes Select to follow link Enrollment Enrollment Holds Add/Swap/Drop/Repeat KU Core Jayhawk GPS Credit Information Select to follow link Credit/No Credit Transfer Credits to KU Transfer Credits from KU Academic Calendar Transcript Ordering Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Undergraduate Advising Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Major & Degree Information Minors Minors can be a great way to pursue your passion, supplement your education, or enrich your studies and future career by spanning across disciplines. View KU's minor options! What is a minor? A minor is a secondary area of study. Requirements vary but usually involve about eighteen hours, at least twelve of which must be at the junior/senior level (300+ numbered courses). A minor can be in nearly any discipline and can be in a College or Professional School that is different from your own (with a few exceptions). For example, you can major in psychology and minor in business, major in journalism and minor in German, or major in biology and minor in dance. The possibilities are endless! Do I need a minor? Unless you are earning a Bachelor of General Studies (BGS) degree, you do not need to have a minor. For Bachelor of Arts (BA) and Bachelor of Science (BS) degrees, a minor is optional! Why would I want a minor? Minors can be a great way to pursue your passion or interests. For example, you may have studied piano for years, but you probably aren’t going to make it to Carnegie Hall. With a minor, you can continue to develop and nurture your talent with professional instructors while dedicating the majority of your education to another career-minded pursuit. A minor can also supplement your educational or career goals. For example, you may want to minor in a language if you are going to be a teacher or business person or work abroad or in government. An education across disciplines has never been more important, and a minor can help bring together different ideas, concepts, and expertise to engage you with new ways of thinking and exciting technologies. Thinking creatively is one of the most desirable qualities that employers are seeking in new hires. When you minor in something that is both different from and complementary to your major, you develop new ways of thinking and bring a fresh perspective that can help you stand out in the job market. Summerfield Hall, Room 315 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 advising@ku.edu 785-864-2834 facebook instagram twitter youtube Major Exploration KU Orientation Academic Calendar KU Core Credit Transfer Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.