Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with Your Student Success Coach New Student Advising and Enrollment Preparing for Advising and Enrollment Resources for Faculty Mentors Student Resources Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Academic Advising > Preparing for Advising and Enrollment Preparing for Advising and Enrollment ACADEMIC ADVISING Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with Your Student Success Coach New Student Advising and Enrollment Preparing for Advising and Enrollment Resources for Faculty Mentors Student Resources Fall and Summer 2022 advising for currently enrolled students begins March 1, 2022. You should schedule an advising appointment based on your Enrollment Date. Enrollment dates are determined by your total hours earned and your ID Number; you can find your registration date here: Enrollment Dates. Regular enrollment begins on March 28, 2022, leading off with Senior registration. Here is a key to determine your classification by total hours earned: Classification Total Hours Earned Freshmen 0-29 hours earned Sophomore 30-59 hours earned Junior 60-89 hours earned Senior 90+ hours earned Students should meet with a success coach BEFORE their enrollment date to promote on time enrollment. Follow the steps outlined in the drop down menus below to schedule and prepare for your advising appointment. IMPORTANT: This page is designed for currently enrolled students preparing for enrollment. If you are a new student planning to enroll at TU for your first semester, visit our New Student Enrollment page. Thinking About Changing Your Major or Adding Another Program? Meet with a Student Success Coach in the Center for Academic Advising If you are thinking about changing your major or adding another major to your plan, please meet with a student success coach in the Center for Academic Advising to discuss this plan as soon as possible. To schedule with a success coach in your program of interest, visit: Meet with a Student Success Coach. Meet with a Career Coach in the Center for Career Development and Professional Engagement The Center for Career Development and Professional Engagement has a variety of resources for students who are exploring majors. If you are unsure about what you’d like to pursue as your major, we encourage you to utilize the resources available on the Exploring Majors and Careers site. If you are interested in meeting with a Career Coach, you can book a coaching session HERE. Explore TU Degree Programs TU offers a variety of major and minor programs. Use this link to discover what TU has to offer: Explore Programs Prepare Your Course Plan In Student Planning Log in to Self-Service/Student Planning Review your progress tab and timeline to identify courses that you need to take for the upcoming terms. Plan courses based on your degree plan timeline and available sections. The course schedule can be found HERE. Refer to your degree program balance sheet for additional guidance. If you do not have a copy of a degree program balance sheet, you can contact advising@utulsa.edu for assistance. Ensure all anticipated transfer/AP/IB credits are showing on your timeline in the farthest left column, often titled “Fall ’19”. If your credits are not recorded in Student Planning it is possible that the Registrar’s Office has not received an official copy of your transcript or score report. For more information about how to submit official records, review the steps for Submitting Official Transcripts/Score Reports. If you have submitted official records, but your credits still have not posted, please email records@utulsa.edu. Create a course schedule on your Course Plan screen; your success coach will assist you with any course plan adjustments when you meet with them for advising. TU degree plans are designed to allow for graduation in 4 years based on at least 15 hours of enrollment each semester; please keep this in mind as you choose courses. For Help Using Student Planning, you can watch tutorial videos HERE  To view other helpful videos, click HERE Review Your Midterm Grades Midterm grades will be available to you at the time you meet with your advisor. You can locate them under the “Grades” button in Self-Service. Checkout: What Are Midterm Grades? A Student’s Guide for more information on the importance of your midterm grades and how to use them to improve your academic performance. Watch: How to Access Your Midterm Grades in Self-Service How to Have a Successful Advising Session Come with Questions. As an active participant in your educational and career planning, it is natural that you’ll have questions or specific things, beyond course scheduling, that you’d like to discuss with your success coach. We recommend that you write these questions down ahead of time so that you don’t forget to ask something important. Be Prepared. Use the preparation steps outlined in the Student Planning section above to ensure that you are ready for your advising session. Think about Your Goals. Your success coach is a resource to help you align your academic, career, and personal goals so that you can get the most out of your educational experience at the University. Be Honest. Your success coach will help you assess your work load, academic needs, personal commitments, and other obligations that could impede your ability to have a successful academic career. Reflect on your current semester and what you might need to change next semester. Reviewing your midterm grades is part of this process. Share your reflections with your success coach. Arrive on Time. Being on time for your advising appointment is critical. If you need to reschedule your appointment, please let your success coach know as soon as possible. I'm Planning to Take Transfer Courses...Now What? Transfer work taken while a student at The University of Tulsa must be approved by the Associate Dean of the student’s major college prior to enrollment at the other college or university. Failure to receive prior approval from the dean’s office will result in work not being transferable to TU. Transfer credit from other colleges and universities are subject to the policies of the University of Tulsa, major College, and the program of study. The Office of the Registrar coordinates the transfer credit evaluation and transfer credit approval processes. Students should refer to the Transfer Credit and Exam Credit policies on the Registrar’s site HERE. To request approval for transfer credit, students must complete a Transfer Course Request for each course for which they are seeking approval. Non-Degree Seeking Students Non-Degree Seeking and Concurrent Enrollment Students If you plan to take courses this upcoming summer and/or fall, please take the following steps: Log in to Self-Service/Student Planning, click the “Student Planning” button and then choose Plan Your Degree & Register for Courses to plan the courses you’d like to take for the summer and/or fall terms. (WATCH: Student Planning Tutorial) Once you have your courses planned, you will go to your Advising tab and click the ”Request Review” button. This will send a notification to the Center for Academic Advising that you have planned courses and would like them to be reviewed for enrollment. After you click, “Request Review”, a success coach in the Center for Academic Advising will review your requested courses and let you know if they have been approved or if you need to make any changes to your plan. On your scheduled day and time to enroll, you will log in to to Self-Service/Student Planning to register yourself in your courses using the “Register Now” button on each term in which you plan to take courses. You can find your scheduled enrollment window on your Schedule tab, just under the heading for the term. If you prefer to meet with a success coach to plan your courses and prepare for enrollment, Christina Carter is the designated Center for Academic Advising staff member for Non-Degree Seeking students. You can make arrangements to meet with Bonnie using the information below: Christina Carter christina-carter@utulsa.edu 918-631-3050 Resolve Enrollment Holds HOW TO RESOLVE HOLDS HOLD TYPE RESOLUTION OFFICE CONTACT Bursar Hold To resolve this hold, you can pay your account balance online here: TouchNet Bursar’s Office 918-631-2600 or Bursar's Office Housing Hold To resolve this hold, contact the Housing office to determine what steps you need to take. Housing Office 918-631-2516 Transcript Hold If you have not submitted a final, official high school or college transcript, the Registrar’s office can place an enrollment hold on your account. To resolve this hold, you can request an official transcript to be sent directly to the Registrar at transcripts@utulsa.edu. Transcripts must be sent directly from the institution to be deemed official. Registrar’s Office at 918-631-2254 or records@utulsa.edu Alexander Health Center Hold If you have not yet submitted your immunization records or proof of a Flu vaccination, doing so may resolve this hold. You can upload this documentation to the Patient Portal. Alexander Health Center 918-631-2241 ahcmedical@utulsa.edu No Emergency Contact Information on File Hold You can resolve this hold by logging in to selfservice.utulsa.edu and clicking on your user profile (see picture attached) and click on “emergency information” to add an emergency contact. Once you have entered at least one emergency contact, your hold will be removed. Self-Service Financial Agreements Hold To resolve this hold, complete your financial agreement in Student Planning. Self-Service HANDOUT: Student Financial Agreement Holds 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT