Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Toggle navigation Advising & Transition Main navigation About Meet Our Staff FAQ Major Specific Advising Advising at Tech Certificates & Minors Find Your Advisor Change of Major Exploratory Advising Exploratory Advising Overview Make an Exploratory Advising Appointment Major Profiles Coaching Academic Coaching Make a Coaching Appointment Courses GT 1000: First-Year Seminar GT 2000: Transfer Student Seminar GT 2100: Success Seminar GT 2801: Study Strategies Seminar Resources Open Search Search Search Advising at Tech Breadcrumb Home How Advising Works Academic advising at Georgia Tech is "decentralized", meaning all students work with advisors in their majors, rather than in a central advising office. Advisors know their major's curriculum, and are the experts to help students navigate their academic path at Tech. Here are some quick tips on working with your advisor: How to make an appointment: Advisors use Advisor Link, an online tool for scheduling advising appointments, but some advisors prefer that you email or just stop by during their advising hours. To find out how to meet with your advisor, use the "find your advisor" button on the home page, and then click your major. During busy times, such as registration, most advisors offer walk-in hours. These are for quick question, while appointments are for exploration, longer-term planning, and discussing academic challenges or concerns. Is advising required? That depends on your major: some majors require advising each semester, annually, or as you reach certain academic milestones. But even if you are not required to meet with your advisor, you will benefit by working with your advisor at least once a year so that you can review your progress, update your goals, plan for co-curricular opportunities, ask questions, or just get some encouragement. If you encounter academic difficulties, your advisor is likely to invite or even require you to meet so that you can work collaboratively on getting back on track. What if I want to discuss changing my major? Meet with an advisor! Your advisor can help you determine whether your current major is a good fit for your goals and interests, and may be able to also help you explore other options. You will also want to meet with the advisor in major(s) you're considering. Some advisors have appointments especially for students thinking about changing their major, while others require students to first attend a Change-of-Major meeting or Info Session. Full details on how to explore or change your major are available here. How Advisors Help Your academic advisor can help you plan to make the most of your college experience. Yes, your advisor is a great resource for course scheduling and questions about registration, but can assist you with so much more, including Setting and reflecting on your academic, career, and life goals Understanding degree requirements and your academic program options Exploring opportunities such as study abroad, undergrad research, co-ops & internships Thinking about adding minors and certificates Developing academic/learning strategies, and connecting you with academic support resources, such as tutoring Explaining Georgia Tech policies on topics like transfer credit, leaves of absence, academic standing, and readmission Deciding if your major is the right fit Providing information and tips for registration Understanding university policies, rules, and regulations Connecting with campus resources Your advisor is also your resource for discussions about any academic difficulties or challenges you encounter, and should always be consulted if you're considering withdrawing from a course. Some academic advisors may also offer help with resumes and cover letters (but if they don't, they can help you make an appointment with a campus expert). All entering students are assigned an academic advisor in their declared major at Georgia Tech. In addition to working with the advisor in their major, students should also consult advisors for minors, certificates, and pre-professional planning. Undergraduates meet their assigned advisor at orientation (FASET) and at regular intervals during their college career. Not sure who your advisor is, or looking to meet with one outside your major? Just click the "find your advisor" on the home page. Advising & Transition Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Advising & Transition Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education