Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Toggle navigation Advising & Transition Main navigation About Meet Our Staff FAQ Major Specific Advising Advising at Tech Certificates & Minors Find Your Advisor Change of Major Exploratory Advising Exploratory Advising Overview Make an Exploratory Advising Appointment Major Profiles Coaching Academic Coaching Make a Coaching Appointment Courses GT 1000: First-Year Seminar GT 2000: Transfer Student Seminar GT 2100: Success Seminar GT 2801: Study Strategies Seminar Resources Open Search Search Search FAQ Breadcrumb Home How do I change or declare my major? You will need to get a change of major form from the Registrar's Office. This will need to be filled out, signed by the advisor in the major you are going into, and then signed by the advisor in the major you are leaving. You sign it and turn it in to the Registrar's Office. Until the form is turned in to the Registrar's Office, no change will actually occur. Many majors require students to attend Change of Major Info Sessions or to attend a Change of Major advising appointment prior to approving the requested change. For an overview of each major's processes, check out our Change of Major information. What minors or certificates are available? Click the following links to find more information about minors and certificates. See the advisor in the appropriate school to learn more about the program. Some schools require that you sign up with them to register for the minor or certificate. Regardless, it is recommended that you talk to the appropriate advisor once you are interested. Where do I register? Go to the OSCAR web page at and click on the secure access login. There you can log in, check your time ticket, and register at your appropriate time. Check the official calendar at the Registrar's Office web page to see when registration periods are occurring. What is a time ticket? Students are assigned a "time ticket" based on their earned credit hours. Those with more hours are assigned earlier time tickets. This is to help students get the classes they need as they get closer to graduation. Your time ticket indicates when registration for the upcoming semester opens to you. How do I find out about transferring courses from other schools? On the OSCAR web page, there is a link to the Transfer Equivalencies web page. There you will find the transfer information for all the courses at different campuses that have been evaluated. If you cannot find the course on these pages, that means it has not previously been evaluated. You will have to talk with the advisor in the appropriate department to get it evaluated. For example, if it is a math course you want to transfer, you will need to talk to the advisor in math. What does my academic standing mean? Your academic standing is based on both your overall GPA and your term GPA. Read more about the breakdown and guidelines for Dean's List and Faculty Honors. How does grade substitution work? Grade substitution is only available for classes taken in your freshman year at Tech (and only for those freshmen starting on or after fall 2005). Grade substitution must be applied for; it is not automatic. Please see the registrar for details. When a substitution is granted, the Tech GPA is recalculated. HOPE does not recalculate the GPA, and the grade still remains on your transcript. You are encouraged to discuss grade substitution with your academic advisors, who can help you understand how it works. What does my midterm (progress) grade mean? Progress Report grades of "S" or "U" are issued for all students enrolled in 1000 and 2000 level classes prior to midterm. A Progress Report grade of "U" usually indicates a performance level of "D" or lower. These are not permanent grades and never appear on a transcript, but are issued to help students assess where they are in their class work and obtain academic help from the faculty and the many academic support services available on campus. Any freshman who receives a "U" should see academic advisors, and it is recommended that all students with one or more "U" grades should see their professors and T.A.s for help, as well as use the tutoring and workshops available. What tutoring is available at Tech? There are a lot of great free tutoring programs at Tech, including 1-to-1, drop-in, and options in some academic units. For more information visit the the Center for Academic Success Tutoring Resource information. How can I find out about workshops and other assistance with time management? The are many opportunities each semester to participate in workshops to help you manage your time, set your priorities, overcome procrastination, and do both the things you want to do and need to do as a Georgia Tech student. The Center for Academic Success (CAS) offers ongoing workshops that include time management and related strategies. You can also stop by the CAS to pick up printed material on these topics. Working with an Academic Coach is a great way to develop your own time management plan and to create accountability. You can easily schedule an academic coaching appointment or get started as a walk-in. The Counseling Center offers workshops each term on dealing with campus life and stress. Check out the workshop calendar during the Fall and Spring. How is HOPE affected by grades or dropping a course? To learn more about HOPE, go to the financial aid site. Also, feel free to contact Financial Aid Advisors or make an appointment. When are my finals? It's important to make sure you know when and where your final exams are scheduled. The Registrar's Office posts the final exam schedule on their calendar web page. What graduate, law, K-12 teaching and medical school advising is available? There are many people at Georgia Tech who can help you plan for graduate school. For planning on pursuing a graduate degree in an academic field, the faculty in your area of interest will be the best resource; your academic advisor may be able to help you make these connections. But all students interested in going into master's and doctoral programs are also encouraged to consult the Pre-Professional & Pre-Graduate (PGPP) advising office, which is located in the Center for Career Discover and Development. The PGPP office also has advising for both pre-law and pre-teaching (K-12), as well as comprehensive advising for all areas of Pre-Health. To look up their location and contact information, go to the Find Your Advisor section of this site. How can I find out more about studying abroad? Tech has some wonderful study abroad programs as well as arrangements with many foreign institutions for semesters abroad. The Office of International Education can tell you more about the programs, including information on which institutions have programs like your major. You can then meet with your academic advisor to find out more about the courses abroad and what works best for you. How can I get involved in research? Getting involved in research is one of the advantages of attending Georgia Tech. While your classes are teaching you the cutting edge in knowledge, doing research is creating that new knowledge base. One way to get involved is to look up faculty web pages and see what sounds most interesting to you. Then contact that faculty member to discuss possibly doing research with them. More information can be found on the Undergraduate Research website. Many other answers at: See the Registrar's Office web page for answers to many questions, or contact your academic advisor. Advising & Transition Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Advising & Transition Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education