Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with Your Student Success Coach New Student Advising and Enrollment Preparing for Advising and Enrollment Resources for Faculty Mentors Student Resources Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Center for Academic Advising > Resources for Faculty Mentors Resources for Faculty Mentors ACADEMIC ADVISING Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with Your Student Success Coach New Student Advising and Enrollment Preparing for Advising and Enrollment Resources for Faculty Mentors Student Resources Enrollment and Advising Information The Center for Academic Advising will notify all undergraduate students of the upcoming enrollment and advising dates. Please visit Preparing for Advising and Enrollment to review the information that has been provided to your advisees. Below, you will find important upcoming dates related to advising and enrollment. Additionally, we have included advising resources to assist you in your advising practice. If you need additional support, please email advising@utulsa.edu. Enrollment and Advising Dates Schedule Posts HERE March 1, 2022 Recommended Start of Advising March 1, 2022 Priority Enrollment Begins (students must qualify) March 21, 2022 Regular Enrollment Begins March 28, 2022 The full list of Enrollment Dates can be found HERE The full list important academic dates can be found on the Academic Calendar HERE Viewing Your Advisees You can view your assigned advisees in Self-Service/Student Planning; you can use that list to contact students. If you need assistance accessing your advisee list; please watch this video: Viewing Your Advisee List Required Advising Steps in Student Planning/Self-Service When you meet with an advisee, you must take the following steps in Self-Service/Student Planning to ensure that they are able to enroll online and that we have proper documentation of the academic advice you provided to the student: Approve courses on their course plan screen Record Advising Notes under the “Notes” tab. Click “Advisement Complete”. This step is critical. It is what releases their advising hold for the term. Click “Review Complete” AND “Archive” to save a copy of their advising history for the term. You can view the Faculty Advising Steps tutorial for a refresher on these steps here: Required Advising Steps in Student Planning Handout: Required Advising Steps in Student Planning Self-Service/Student Planning Tutorials Video Summary Total Video Length Required Advising Steps in Student Planning This video outlines the specific steps an Advisor must take to clear their advisee's semester advising hold and ensure that advisees are able to enroll on their assigned day and time. **Advisors of all experience levels should watch this video prior to advising.** 03:05 Tutorial #1 Getting Started in Student Planning-Viewing Your Advisee List In this video we show Advisors how to find basic information about their advisees in Self Service/Student Planning. 01:36 Tutorial #2 Reviewing a Student’s Progress in Student Planning In this video, we demonstrate how to review your advisee’s degree progress in Self Service/Student Planning. 05:11 Tutorial #3 Using the Timeline Feature to Assist Students with Degree Planning In this video, we demonstrate how to use the “Timeline” tab in Student Planning to assist your advisees with long term degree planning. 03:18 Tutorial #4 Other Advising Tools Found in Student Planning and Beyond In this video, we show Advisors some other helpful advising tools within Student Planning and a few that live outside of the Self-Service system. These resources will be very useful to you as you meet with your advisees. 05:41 Bonus Content: Student Planning Tutorial for Students This video was made for student users. We encourage advisors to watch this video to see how students interface with the Student Planning site. 07:36 Advising Notes Guidelines Why do we create advising notes? Help students remember advice they received during advising appointments Help faculty advisors, professional advisors and other student support staff communicate and provide consistent service Create an “institutional memory” of contacts and recommended actions Personalize the advising experience by refreshing the advisor’s recollection of previous conversation What things should we document? What did the student present as main issue(s) to address? What steps were taken/agreed upon to address the student’s presenting issue? What advice and recommendations were made? (if appropriate, include any back up planning that you might recommend) What are agreed upon follow-up actions? Were specific referrals made? Review available record information (graduation date, program declarations, midterm grades, transfer credits, etc.) to ensure student’s plans are clearly documented and appropriate resource referrals are made. Overall, summarize what you discussed as it relates to the student’s academic planning and success FERPA and Notes The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) entitles students to access any notes considered part of their academic record. Any notes entered in Student Planning are considered part of a student’s academic record and are accessible by students, open records requests, and court subpoenas. With this in mind: Assume students, parents, or the general public will read anything and everything you have written. Student Planning Notes are visible to the student and to other advisors and staff members who have access to Student Planning. Write your notes on a student meeting as soon as possible. Once a note is submitted in Student Planning, it cannot be edited or deleted. When writing your notes, ask yourself the following questions: Is this something the student would want other people to know? Is this something another advisor would need to know? Why? Is this something that is within my scope of practice to say? (i.e., Do I have the necessary training, and is this something relevant to my area of professional expertise?) Are the details in my notes based on fact? Or, Do they represent my own observations, perspectives, guesses, predictions, diagnoses, etc.? “Describe, don’t evaluate” “When in doubt, leave it out” Notes should be academic-related and avoid including personal, potentially sensitive content. Personal and/or sensitive content, whether reported by the student or assumed by you, may include: Medical / mental health concerns Legal problems Relationship problems Family concerns Conflicts with specific instructors Adapted from: Recording Notes and Adopting a Campus-Wide Student Notes System. www.eab.com Degree Balance Sheets Degree balance sheets are created by departments for each of their major programs. Students must follow the balance sheet associated with the catalog year programmed in Self-Service/Student Planning, which is viewable in the “At a Glance” section under the Progress tab. Some Colleges make their balance sheets available in the Portal, while others require that you obtain them from a Department Chair or Professional Advisor. If you are advising a student and do not have a balance sheet for their program, start here: Engineering and Natural Sciences: email advising@utulsa.edu Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Core and Major sheets (Current year balance sheets only. If you need a different catalog year, please email advising@utulsa.edu) Collins College of Business (Current year balance sheets only. If you need a different catalog year, please email advising@utulsa.edu) Oxley College of Health Sciences If you are unable to locate what you need, please contact advising@utulsa.edu. Advising Student Athletes- Tips from the Office of Academic and Student Service (OASiS) We appreciate the work you do to help your students and advisees on campus, including our student-athletes. We do not expect academic advisors to stay informed on all the NCAA rules and regulations for eligibility. We do hope, however, the following information will help you as you advise TU student-athletes. We’ve created this handout to assist you as you advise Student Athletes: OASiS Student Athlete Academic Tip Sheet Please feel free to contact the OASiS staff member listed for the appropriate sport if you have questions regarding any of our student-athletes. OASiS Staff: Dr. Christina Carter Associate Athletic Director for Academic and Student Services Works with: M. Basketball, M/W Track, M/W Cross Country 918-631-3530; christina-carter@utulsa.edu Schnea Nealy Associate Athletics Director for Student-Athlete Development Works with: Football (Defense), W Basketball, Volleyball 918-631-2255; schnea-nealy@utulsa.edu Taylor Miller Assistant Director for Academic & Student Services (Tutor/Mentor Program) Works with: Football (Offense), M. Soccer, Softball 918-631-2383; taylor-miller@utulsa.edu Cassi Cregar Associate Director for Academic & Student Services Works with: Rowing, W Soccer, W Golf, M/W Tennis 918-631-3654; cassi-cregar@utulsa.edu Karen Gober Director of Educational Services Works with: Student-Athletes w/ Student Access accommodations 918-631-3622; karen-gober@utulsa.edu Learn more about OASiS services and support offered to student athletes by visiting: Office of Academic and Student Services (OASiS) Assisting Your Advisees with Enrollment Holds HOW TO RESOLVE HOLDS HOLD TYPE RESOLUTION OFFICE CONTACT Bursar Hold To resolve this hold, you can pay your account balance online here: TouchNet Bursar’s Office 918-631-2600 or Bursar's Office Housing Hold To resolve this hold, contact the Housing office to determine what steps you need to take. Housing Office 918-631-2516 Transcript Hold If you have not submitted a final, official high school or college transcript, the Registrar’s office can place an enrollment hold on your account. To resolve this hold, you can request an official transcript to be sent directly to the Registrar at transcripts@utulsa.edu. Transcripts must be sent directly from the institution to be deemed official. Registrar’s Office at 918-631-2254 or records@utulsa.edu Alexander Health Center Hold If you have not yet submitted your immunization records or proof of a Flu vaccination, doing so may resolve this hold. You can upload this documentation to the Patient Portal. Alexander Health Center 918-631-2241 ahcmedical@utulsa.edu No Emergency Contact Information on File Hold You can resolve this hold by logging in to selfservice.utulsa.edu and clicking on your user profile (see picture attached) and click on “emergency information” to add an emergency contact. Once you have entered at least one emergency contact, your hold will be removed. Self-Service Financial Agreements Hold To resolve this hold, complete your financial agreement in Student Planning. Self-Service HANDOUT: Student Financial Agreement Holds My Advisee Wants to Take Transfer Courses...Now What? Transfer work taken while a student at The University of Tulsa must be approved by the Associate Dean of the student’s major college prior to enrollment at the other college or university. Failure to receive prior approval from the dean’s office will result in work not being transferable to TU. Transfer credit from other colleges and universities are subject to the policies of the University of Tulsa, major College, and the program of study. The Office of the Registrar coordinates the transfer credit evaluation and transfer credit approval processes. Students should refer to the Transfer Credit and Exam Credit policies on the Registrar’s site HERE. To request approval for transfer credit, students must complete a Transfer Course Request for each course for which they are seeking approval. Additional Advising Resources Academic Calendar Advising Forms (drop/add, pass/d-f declaration, major declaration) Bulletin Course Schedule Links to Common Referrals Alexander Health Center Bursar Center for Academic Advising Center for Global Engagement (Study Abroad and International Student Services) Counseling and Psychological Services Financial Aid Registrar Student Access Student Success Coaches Tutoring Services 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT