Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Us What is Advising? Advisors Administrative Staff Contact Us Advising Current Students Incoming Students Student Athletes Transfer Students For Parents and Families Choosing a Major Deciding on a Major Explore Majors and Minors Explore Resources from Career Services How to Declare Career Planning Pre-Health Advising Pre-Law Advising Academic Credit for Internships Career Services Resources Academic Policies and Academic Catalog Academic Support AP/IB/A-Level Equivalencies Core Curriculum Course Advisor Archive Degree Audit Forms GPA Calculator Online Language Placement Schedule of Classes Transfer Credit Staff/Faculty Advisor Resources Faculty Resources Advisor of the Day Make an Appointment Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Close Welcome, New Students! Click here, https://advising.tulane.edu/advising/incoming, for our Incoming Students website which contains details that will be helpful to you as you begin to navigate your academic journey at Tulane. If you haven’t yet registered for a June CAST advising and registration appointment to complete your registration for the Fall 2022 semester, please review your emails from the Office of Admission which contain the scheduling link and additional details you can use to prepare for your appointment. TULANE UNIVERSITY TEMPLATE SITE Advising Advising is a collaborative partnership that maximizes the individual potential of students by sharing information, tools, and resources that empower students to make informed decisions about creating appropriate academic and career plans to achieve their academic, career, and life goals. Make an Appointment Select a CategoryQuick Links Academic Support Faculty Resources For Families Newcomb-Tulane College What Type of Student are You? Current Student Incoming Student Student Athlete Transfer Student Plan Your Academic Journey Explore Academic Programs How to Declare a Major Majors and Minors List NTC Career Services Pre-Health Advising Pre-Law Advising Resources Academic Policies and Catalog Core Curriculum Course Advisor E-Newsletter Archive Degree Audit For Faculty and Staff For Families Forms Advising is one of the most important resources available to you at Tulane. Our team of advisors is here to help you plan your undergraduate career as well as plan for post-graduation. Make an appointment to plan your schedule, declare a major, or learn more about pre-professional pathways. Make an Appointment Virtual Advisor of the Day New at NTC Advising Our COVID-19 Response Read about Newcomb-Tulane College's COVID-19 response, which heavily focuses on this team's transition online. Read NTC Student Features Learn more about the exceptional undergraduate students we advise. CSS - Landing Link to Tulane Home Page ADVISING Mussafer Hall Newcomb-Tulane College Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5798 advising@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Newcomb-Tulane College SOPA Advising Career Services Office of the University Registrar Undergraduate Admission News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University