Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Undergraduate Advising Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link History & Mission Contact Us Advising Appointments Select to follow link Undergraduate Advising Center Information Departmental Advising People Select to follow link Professional Staff Graduate Assistant Program Major & Degree Information Select to follow link Major Exploration KU Academic Terminology Majors: Update | Declare | Apply Minors Special Programs & Certificates Enrollment & Schedule Changes Select to follow link Enrollment Enrollment Holds Add/Swap/Drop/Repeat KU Core Jayhawk GPS Credit Information Select to follow link Credit/No Credit Transfer Credits to KU Transfer Credits from KU Academic Calendar Transcript Ordering Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Undergraduate Advising Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Major & Degree Information Update Your Major Adjust Your Interest Code Locate your academic interest or interest code: To view what your current major is listed as: Log in to your myKU Portal. From the “Academics” drop-down menu, choose “My Progress.” Once you are in your advising information, click on the “Academics” tab to access your interest code. Change or update your interest code: To change your major interest you can go to main office of the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences in Strong Hall 109 (785-864-3500) and fill out a major change form or email collegeadvising@ku.edu from your KU email account. It is very important that you update your interest code and major if it's listed incorrectly or you've made a change. Notice: Keep in mind, updating your interest code is not the same as declaring your major or applying to a professional school. These are separate processes. If you are admitted into a Professional School (Business, Journalism, etc.) but no longer wish to be a part of that school, then you will need to complete a Change of School Form and turn it into Strong Hall 109. You would then be a part of the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences until you apply to and are accepted into a different program. Declare Declare a College of Liberal Arts & Science (CLAS) major or apply to a Professional School: Some CLAS majors have admission requirements you must complete or be in the process of completing before you can declare a certain major. Professional Schools have specific combinations of admission and GPA requirements, as well as specific application deadlines. You will need to check the admissions requirements and application deadlines and process for you major of interest. Find Admissions Requirements Find admission requirements and application deadlines via: 1. the KU Academic Catalog. 2. the website of your chosen degree. 3. your advisor! Always check in with us to see if you are ready to apply or declare! Have a question? Send us a chat. null Summerfield Hall, Room 315 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 advising@ku.edu 785-864-2834 facebook instagram twitter youtube Major Exploration KU Orientation Academic Calendar KU Core Credit Transfer Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.