Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Undergraduate Advising Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link History & Mission Contact Us Advising Appointments Select to follow link Undergraduate Advising Center Information Departmental Advising People Select to follow link Professional Staff Graduate Assistant Program Major & Degree Information Select to follow link Major Exploration KU Academic Terminology Majors: Update | Declare | Apply Minors Special Programs & Certificates Enrollment & Schedule Changes Select to follow link Enrollment Enrollment Holds Add/Swap/Drop/Repeat KU Core Jayhawk GPS Credit Information Select to follow link Credit/No Credit Transfer Credits to KU Transfer Credits from KU Academic Calendar Transcript Ordering Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Undergraduate Advising Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Major & Degree Information Special Programs & Certificates KU offers a wide variety of experiential learning programs and certificates that provide fantastic opportunities for undergraduate students. Whether you're looking to build your resume, gain hands-on experience, or take your education beyond the classroom, KU has you covered. All completed experiential learning certificates will be notated on your academic transcript. There are two main types of certificates at KU: The experiential learning certificate where you complete coursework and hands-on experience The classroom certificate where you take around 4 classes to further your understanding on a particular subject. View the comprehensive list of all KU certificates. Experiential Learning Certificates & Programs Arts Engagement Curious about the arts but don't have time to minor? Students from all majors can receive a broad introduction to arts and explore the rich arts culture at KU with the Arts Engagement Certificate. Coursework, event attendance, and a capstone reflection assignment will earn you certification in Arts Engagement. Arts Engagement Certification Professional Selling The mission of the Professional Selling Program is to prepare students for successful careers in consultative selling. Graduates of the program will help consumers and businesses define their needs, understand and evaluate buying options, facilitate effective purchase decisions, and forge enduring relationships. Certificate of Professional Selling Entrepreneurship Taking your dreams to the marketplace is central to the Certificate in Entrepreneurship! This program is a way to conceptualize, fund, and start your own business through a four-course process in the School of Business. Certificate in Entrepreneurship Leadership Engagement Dynamic leadership is not something that comes naturally—it comes through experience. Secure the experience you're looking for with the Leadership Studies Certificate. Through coursework and experiential learning activities, you gain valuable experience as a leader that you can take beyond KU out into the world. Leadership Engagement Certificate Program Global Awareness Have you been thinking about study abroad? Interested in global issues, cultures, and languages? The Global Awareness Program may be just what you're looking for! Earn either a basic certification or certification with distinction--completion of the program is noted on your transcript, and it can be a great way to build your resume. Global Awareness Program Service Learning Learning by doing is critical to developing lifelong skills and competencies. Go beyond the classroom and get involved in your community with the Service Learning Program which consists of a service learning class, 20 hours of service work, and a written reflection. Certification in Service Learning Summerfield Hall, Room 315 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 advising@ku.edu 785-864-2834 facebook instagram twitter youtube Major Exploration KU Orientation Academic Calendar KU Core Credit Transfer Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.