Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology Aerospace Engineering | Georgia Institute of Technology | Atlanta, GA Menu Close Home About Accreditation Enrollment Data Advisory Council Contact us! Giving Thanking Our Supporters K-12 Outreach Paying for College Publications & Brochures Visit the AE School Vision, Mission, and Objectives What do you do with a GT Aerospace Engineering degree? Academics Future AE Students Prospective BS AE Prospective MS AE Prospective PhD AE Current AE Students Undergraduate Advisement Graduate Advisement AE Graduate Program FAQ BS/MS Honors Program Registration Helpful Forms AE Curricula 5-Year Course Schedule Undergraduate Curriculum Master's Curriculum Doctoral Curriculum Doctoral Dissertations Careers in AE AE Students AE Career Connection Mentors in Residence Industry & Alumni Corporate Affiliates Program (CAP) Research AE Brown Bag Lecture Series AE Labs, Centers, & Collaborative Groups AE Student Research Opportunities AE Multidisciplinary Research Areas Cyberphysical Systems, Safety, Security, & Reliability Large Scale Computations, Data, & Analytics Mechanics of Multifunctional Structures and Materials Robotics, Autonomy and Human Interaction Space Exploration and Earth Monitoring Sustainable Transportation & Energy Systems System of Systems & Complex System Integration Vertical Lift and Urban Air Mobility Student Life Student Orgs GT AIAA GT Off-Road Club GT SEDS GT Vertical Flight Society GT Women of Aeronautics & Astronautics Ramblin' Rocket Club School of Aerospace Engineering Student Advisory Council (SAESAC) Sigma Gamma Tau Yellow Jacket Flying Club Yellow Jacket Space Program News & Events AE School Events AE School News The AErial View Newsletter Directory Academic Faculty Mentors in Residence Post-doc Fellows Research Faculty Staff Mentors In Residence Apply Your Profile Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Instagram Flickr LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Structural Mechanics & Materials Focus This research group seeks to understand and predict the material and related structure behavior in environments and in applications that are unique to aerospace engineering. Specific areas of inquiry include computational mechanics, composite structures, fracture and fatigue, damage tolerance and failure prediction, experimental mechanics, thermal and environmental effects and non-destructive evaluation, structural stability (buckling/postbuckling), adaptive structures, structural health monitoring, and system identification. The group actively addresses many longstanding research issues, including conventional metallic aero-structures, such as life extension in aging aircraft and proper methods of vibration control. As standards for safety, performance, and lifecycle costs continually evolve, SMM is committed to evaluating and incorporating new, advanced materials such as composites with toughened thermosetting matrices, thermoplastic composites, and metal-matrix or ceramic-matrix composites. The team has focused on damage tolerance/fatigue/fracture; airworthiness; impact-resistance; efficient and accurate computation tools (finite elements, etc.); modeling of the mechanics of manufacturing; new structural design concepts (ply drop-off, sandwich construction, elastic tailoring); anisotropic elasticity and plate/shell higher-order or asymptotic theories; and diagnostic methods including C-scan, acoustic emission, and X-ray. Impact The constant need for safer, lighter, better-performing aerospace vehicle applications has always been the goal of this research. The SMM group supports research that investigates the many structural parts of commercial and military airplanes and space vehicles now being made of new, advanced materials. With the support of numerous public and private sponsors - ONR, ARO, AFOSR, and the Vertical Lift Research Center of Excellence (VLRCOE), to name a few – graduate SMM research teams take on a variety of challenges in contemporary aero structure and materials: primary carbon-epoxy structures in the vertical tails of the Airbus A300-340 series; the Boeing 777 transports; the B-2 military aircraft’s wings and fuselages; the Comanche helicopter, and various components of the space shuttle. The group analyzes structural design criteria for aero-structures, including damage tolerance requirements that are specific to their ability to operate safely with initial defects or in-plane damage. The SMM group seeks to identify and mitigate the effects of typical defects such as porosity, delamination, lack of bond between co-cured parts, and wrinkles in fibers. It also explores how low-velocity impacts cause low-level ‘invisible’ damage while high-velocity impacts (e.g, from the failure of rotating machinery or ballistic damage) can immediately affect airworthiness. New concepts in design, such as sandwich or hybrid material construction, new manufacturing techniques and new material developments are studied to determine whether they introduce undesirable residual stresses and deformations or require new methods of analysis and testing. Facilities Located in the basement of the Knight Building, the AE Structures Laboratory is well-equipped with advanced test frames, optical equipment for the remote monitoring of cracks, and a variety of non-destructive testing equipment and related computerized data acquisition systems. In the Weber Building are labs that feature a filament winder, an autoclave for the manufacturing of composite specimens, a strain-gauge, and an optical deformation system. Dedicated computer workstations can be used for large-scale computational research and stress analysis. Structural Mechanics & Materials Faculty The AE faculty collaborating in the Structural Mechanics & Materials (SMM) group champion innovation. Find out more about their background, accomplishments, and vision. Prof. James I Craig Prof. Claudio Vinicius Di Leo Prof. Sathyanaraya Hanagud Prof. George Kardomateas Prof. Graeme James Kennedy Dr. Chance McColl Prof. Julian Jose Rimoli Get the full picture by finding out about all of the AE labs, collaborative groups, and centers. Download the SMM fact sheet (PDF). Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum About GT-AE Accreditation K-12 Outreach Educational Objectives & Outcomes Enrollment Data Graduation Data History Mission & Vision Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Faculty-Staff INTRAnet AE & GT Publications Graduate Student Handbook Student Resources Academic Calendar BuzzCard & Key Access Forms GT Catalog Paying for College Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 AE Information Technology Support Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology