Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology Aerospace Engineering | Georgia Institute of Technology | Atlanta, GA Menu Close Home About Accreditation Enrollment Data Advisory Council Contact us! Giving Thanking Our Supporters K-12 Outreach Paying for College Publications & Brochures Visit the AE School Vision, Mission, and Objectives What do you do with a GT Aerospace Engineering degree? Academics Future AE Students Prospective BS AE Prospective MS AE Prospective PhD AE Current AE Students Undergraduate Advisement Graduate Advisement AE Graduate Program FAQ BS/MS Honors Program Registration Helpful Forms AE Curricula 5-Year Course Schedule Undergraduate Curriculum Master's Curriculum Doctoral Curriculum Doctoral Dissertations Careers in AE AE Students AE Career Connection Mentors in Residence Industry & Alumni Corporate Affiliates Program (CAP) Research AE Brown Bag Lecture Series AE Labs, Centers, & Collaborative Groups AE Student Research Opportunities AE Multidisciplinary Research Areas Cyberphysical Systems, Safety, Security, & Reliability Large Scale Computations, Data, & Analytics Mechanics of Multifunctional Structures and Materials Robotics, Autonomy and Human Interaction Space Exploration and Earth Monitoring Sustainable Transportation & Energy Systems System of Systems & Complex System Integration Vertical Lift and Urban Air Mobility Student Life Student Orgs GT AIAA GT Off-Road Club GT SEDS GT Vertical Flight Society GT Women of Aeronautics & Astronautics Ramblin' Rocket Club School of Aerospace Engineering Student Advisory Council (SAESAC) Sigma Gamma Tau Yellow Jacket Flying Club Yellow Jacket Space Program News & Events AE School Events AE School News The AErial View Newsletter Directory Academic Faculty Mentors in Residence Post-doc Fellows Research Faculty Staff Mentors In Residence Apply Your Profile Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Instagram Flickr LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Systems Design & Optimization Focus The AE Systems Design and Optimization (SDO) group focuses on synthesis, analysis, and optimization of aeronautical and space vehicles as well as other complex systems in domains including energy, naval engineering, air transportation, and logistics. In the area of space vehicles, the SDO group has strong capabilities in planetary entry descent and landing (EDL), astrodynamics, space situational awareness and sensing, small satellite design for innovative science missions, space transportation architectures, and launch vehicle design. In the area of aeronautical vehicles, the SDO group works in the design and optimization of commercial transport aircraft, rotorcraft, and gas turbines aircraft engines, and in assessing fleet-level air transportation economics and emissions. The group also focuses on the evaluation of the impact of new technologies on enhancing the feasibility and value of aerospace vehicles and missions and on understanding and improving the robustness of proposed aerospace vehicle design concepts. Impact The SDO group leads a broad variety of research projects for government agencies including NASA, FAA, AFRL, and ONR as well as all most prime contractors and subsystem suppliers in the U.S. and European aerospace industry. SDO faculty are widely recognized as thought leaders in the field of aerospace vehicle design, analysis, and operations and serve on multiple government and industry boards and committees. Facilities The SDO group maintains facilities associated with the Aerospace Systems Design Laboratory (ASDL), the Space Systems Design Laboratory (SSDL), and the Integrated Product and Lifecycle Engineering (IPLE) Laboratory. Facilities in ASDL are available for interactive computational design, including the Collaborative Visualization Environment (CoVE) which consists of a large visualization wall, multiple high-performance workstations, and equipment for subject matter expert information elicitation. The Collaborative Design Environment (CoDE) consists of a large display wall with stereoscopic projection for 3-D visualization. ASDL also maintains a UAV laboratory that is the basis for a highly-successful lineage of participation in AIAA and SAE undergraduate design-build-fly competitions and the Adaptive Design Prototyping and Testing Laboratory (ADePT) for autonomous air, sea, and ground vehicles. The IPLE Laboratory comprises multiple high-performance workstations for Computer Aided Engineering (CAE). The SSDL faculty maintain facilities associated with the Center for Space Systems including the Flight Hardware Laboratory Clean Room, and a tracking station and mission control room for cubesat and university nanosat spaceflight projects including RECONSO, Prox-1, SPORE, and LightSail, as well as the Georgia Tech Space Objects Research Telescope (GT-SORT). Systems Design & Optimization Faculty The Georgia Tech AE faculty collaborating in the Systems Design & Optimization (SDO) group are having a huge impact in aerospace -- and other engineering fields. Find out more about their background, accomplishments, and vision. Prof. John Dec Prof. Mark Francis Costello Prof. Brian J. German Prof. Ari Glezer Prof. Brian Gunter Prof. E. Glenn Lightsey Prof. Koki Ho Prof. Dimitri Mavris Prof. Joseph Homer Saleh Prof. Daniel P. Schrage Get the full picture by finding out about all of the AE labs, collaborations, and centers. Download the SDO fact sheet (PDF). Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum About GT-AE Accreditation K-12 Outreach Educational Objectives & Outcomes Enrollment Data Graduation Data History Mission & Vision Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Faculty-Staff INTRAnet AE & GT Publications Graduate Student Handbook Student Resources Academic Calendar BuzzCard & Key Access Forms GT Catalog Paying for College Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 AE Information Technology Support Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology