Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology Aerospace Engineering | Georgia Institute of Technology | Atlanta, GA Menu Close Home About Accreditation Enrollment Data Advisory Council Contact us! Giving Thanking Our Supporters K-12 Outreach Paying for College Publications & Brochures Visit the AE School Vision, Mission, and Objectives What do you do with a GT Aerospace Engineering degree? Academics Future AE Students Prospective BS AE Prospective MS AE Prospective PhD AE Current AE Students Undergraduate Advisement Graduate Advisement AE Graduate Program FAQ BS/MS Honors Program Registration Helpful Forms AE Curricula 5-Year Course Schedule Undergraduate Curriculum Master's Curriculum Doctoral Curriculum Doctoral Dissertations Careers in AE AE Students AE Career Connection Mentors in Residence Industry & Alumni Corporate Affiliates Program (CAP) Research AE Brown Bag Lecture Series AE Labs, Centers, & Collaborative Groups AE Student Research Opportunities AE Multidisciplinary Research Areas Cyberphysical Systems, Safety, Security, & Reliability Large Scale Computations, Data, & Analytics Mechanics of Multifunctional Structures and Materials Robotics, Autonomy and Human Interaction Space Exploration and Earth Monitoring Sustainable Transportation & Energy Systems System of Systems & Complex System Integration Vertical Lift and Urban Air Mobility Student Life Student Orgs GT AIAA GT Off-Road Club GT SEDS GT Vertical Flight Society GT Women of Aeronautics & Astronautics Ramblin' Rocket Club School of Aerospace Engineering Student Advisory Council (SAESAC) Sigma Gamma Tau Yellow Jacket Flying Club Yellow Jacket Space Program News & Events AE School Events AE School News The AErial View Newsletter Directory Academic Faculty Mentors in Residence Post-doc Fellows Research Faculty Staff Mentors In Residence Apply Your Profile Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Instagram Flickr LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Aeroelasticity and Structural Dynamics Focus The Aeroelasticity & Structural Design (ASD) group's research examines interactions among aerodynamics, structural mechanics, and dynamics, spanning the fields of fixed- and rotary-winged aircraft as well as spacecraft. It also focuses on interactions between structural mechanics and dynamics. Increasingly, it is integrating controls and optimization as well. ASD researchers are developing computational methods for dynamics of systems of flexible structures that are interconnected. These are called multi-flexible-body dynamics. Focusing on rotary-winged aircraft aeroelasticity concerns, the ASD explores vibration reduction, improved methods for calculation of stability, methods for modeling composite rotor blades, and investigation of the effects of elastic coupling on blade performance and stability. Turning to fixed-wing aircraft, the group’s research focuses on computational methods, analytical and experimental studies of buffeting, and aeroservoelasticity of composite-winged aircraft with wings of high-aspect ratio. The group also employs high-order aerodynamics methods to capture the correct flow physics. This requires the marriage of computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and computational structural mechanics (CSM). Overall, the group’s work enables engineers to accurately and reliably predict the dynamics of complex flexible multi-body systems. Impact The ASD’s work attracts the sponsorship of multiple partners, including NASA, the U.S. Air Force, the U.S. Army, and industry. The group tackles the unique deformation issues encountered by all high-performance aircraft: light-weight components are subject to vibrational and other forms of deformation. For instance, the structural deformation of wings can cause the quasi-static airloads to differ substantially from those of a more rigid vehicle. This includes a variety of unstable behaviors, both quasi-static and dynamic, which can shorten the life of the aircraft, or even destroy it. The ASD group’s research seeks to address aeroelasticity and structural dynamics issues for aerospace systems early in the design process. In practice, this leads to fewer late-program “surprises” (such as flutter or vibration problems that show up on the prototype system) which delay production and add to the cost of new systems. ASD researchers are developing computational methodologies which incorporate these aspects, and are utilizing this technology to explore the vitally important effects of structural flexibility and dynamics. Using ENS3DAE, a transonic tightly-coupled aeroelastic methodology developed as part of a consortium (Georgia Tech and Lockheed-Martin) through Wright Laboratory, researchers are exploring the mechanisms driving aeroelastic phenomena which lead to Limit Cycle Oscillations (LCO), flutter and fatigue problems. They have also developed a methodology, under Wright Laboratory funding, to couple existing rigid CFD codes and CSM codes to examine static aeroelastic problems. This methodology, Fluid and Structure Interface Toolkit (FASIT), can also be used to extend the usefulness of existing CFD codes, and as an interface mechanism between disciplines. Finally, flexible multi-body dynamics codes are coupled with OVERFLOW, a CFD code developed at NASA Ames Research center, to study rotorcraft aeroelasticity problems. Facilities The work of the ASD is carried out in various lab facilities throughout the Guggenheim, Knight, Weber and ESM buildings. A strong relationship with the Aerospace Systems Design Lab (ASDL) allows our ASD faculty and students access to several collaborative spaces, such as the CoVE and the CoDE, located in thew Weber Building. Apply to the Aerospace Engineering Graduate Program Aeroelasticity & Structural Dynamics Faculty The AE faculty collaborating in the Aeroelasticity and Structural Dynamics (ASD) group are redefining the field. Find out more about their background, accomplishments, and vision. Prof. Sathyanaraya Hanagud Dr. Chance McColl Prof. Juergen Rauleder Prof. Marilyn J. Smith Get the full picture by finding out about all of the AE labs, collaborative groups, and centers Download the ASD fact sheet (PDF). Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum About GT-AE Accreditation K-12 Outreach Educational Objectives & Outcomes Enrollment Data Graduation Data History Mission & Vision Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Faculty-Staff INTRAnet AE & GT Publications Graduate Student Handbook Student Resources Academic Calendar BuzzCard & Key Access Forms GT Catalog Paying for College Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 AE Information Technology Support Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology