Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology Aerospace Engineering | Georgia Institute of Technology | Atlanta, GA Menu Close Home About Accreditation Enrollment Data Advisory Council Contact us! Giving Thanking Our Supporters K-12 Outreach Paying for College Publications & Brochures Visit the AE School Vision, Mission, and Objectives What do you do with a GT Aerospace Engineering degree? Academics Future AE Students Prospective BS AE Prospective MS AE Prospective PhD AE Current AE Students Undergraduate Advisement Graduate Advisement AE Graduate Program FAQ BS/MS Honors Program Registration Helpful Forms AE Curricula 5-Year Course Schedule Undergraduate Curriculum Master's Curriculum Doctoral Curriculum Doctoral Dissertations Careers in AE AE Students AE Career Connection Mentors in Residence Industry & Alumni Corporate Affiliates Program (CAP) Research AE Brown Bag Lecture Series AE Labs, Centers, & Collaborative Groups AE Student Research Opportunities AE Multidisciplinary Research Areas Cyberphysical Systems, Safety, Security, & Reliability Large Scale Computations, Data, & Analytics Mechanics of Multifunctional Structures and Materials Robotics, Autonomy and Human Interaction Space Exploration and Earth Monitoring Sustainable Transportation & Energy Systems System of Systems & Complex System Integration Vertical Lift and Urban Air Mobility Student Life Student Orgs GT AIAA GT Off-Road Club GT SEDS GT Vertical Flight Society GT Women of Aeronautics & Astronautics Ramblin' Rocket Club School of Aerospace Engineering Student Advisory Council (SAESAC) Sigma Gamma Tau Yellow Jacket Flying Club Yellow Jacket Space Program News & Events AE School Events AE School News The AErial View Newsletter Directory Academic Faculty Mentors in Residence Post-doc Fellows Research Faculty Staff Mentors In Residence Apply Your Profile Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Instagram Flickr LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Propulsion & Combustion Focus The Georgia Tech AE Propulsion and Combustion Group (P&C) explores the complex systems that compose modern propulsion devices and energy systems. A multi-disciplinary team of faculty and students maintains world-class research, facilities, and academic programs that support this exploration. The group's work focuses on the interplay between complex fluid dynamics and high-temperature chemical and plasma energy conversion processes that underpin propulsion and energy systems. The P&C group conducts basic, and applied research in combustion, chemical propulsion, and electric propulsion, employing experimental and computational approaches. Specific projects include unsteady phenomena in turbine engine combustors and liquid-fueled rocket engines; the development of nonintrusive, optical-based diagnostic and sensor techniques; the measurement and control of combustion emissions, alternative fuels, plasma-material interactions, facility effects and life limiting processes in electric propulsion devices, and efficient modeling of combustion phenomena at realistic conditions. The P&C group actively collaborates with experts in other Georgia Tech schools, the Strategic Energy Institute (SEI), the Center for Space Technology and Research (C-STAR), and the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI). Impact The unique approach taken by the P&C group has established its faculty as thought leaders in aerospace propulsion and energy systems. The group's research thrusts are critical to the work performed by a broad portfolio of government agencies - including the DoD, DoE, FAA, NASA - and aerospace/energy industry partners.  The P&C group focuses its research on a select group of real-world problems related to propulsion and energy. It employs a combination of resources to advance science fundamentals and merge with technology development. The fundamental work in combustion investigates physical processes tied to pollutant formation/emissions as well as dynamics and instabilities. The knowledge is applied to clean energy, alternative fuels, gas turbine operability, and rocket engine combustion stability. The fundamental work in plasma physics addresses efficient acceleration of plasmas and plasma-material interactions. The results of this work impact efficient system design and the lifetime prediction of electric propulsion devices. Facilities Central to the P&C group is the Ben T. Zinn Combustion Laboratory, a 13,000 ft2 facility located in the North Avenue Research Area. The experimental facilities are numerous and include: four high-pressure test areas for conducting large-scale combustion experiments, a high bay area for large vertical experiments, four light and sound isolation laboratories, and a large open test area. Modern measurement devices, including high-speed optical diagnostic techniques, are available and routinely employed. These facilities enable the group to investigate physical processes encountered in real propulsion and energy systems at relevant operation conditions. Located in the Guggenheim building, the Computational Combustion Laboratory (CCL) includes several supercomputers, clusters, and workstations. The lab provides critical capacity for exploring turbulent, single- and two-phase combustion systems using large eddy simulations (LES). The computing capacity is able to process multi-scale parallel codes that simulate real-scale devices at relevant operating conditions. These codes can run on both Georgia Tech AE's network, and on larger computer clusters, such as are routinely used by our partners in the DOD, ONR, and DOE. The High-Power Electric Propulsion Lab (HPEPL) brings together resources to explore high-power plasma propulsion and plasma physics at conditions representative of the on-orbit space environment. The 4,000 square foot infrastructure of the lab includes the largest diffusion-pumped vacuum facility at any university in the nation and it addresses research interests that involve light gases and high thermal loads. In addition, the cryopumped-vacuum facility possesses the highest xenon pumping speed at any University in the nation. Propulsion & Combustion Faculty The AE faculty collaborating in the Propulsion & Combustion group are our most valued assets. Find out more about their background, accomplishments, and vision. Prof. Krishan K. Ahuja Prof. Jechiel Jagoda Prof. Timothy Lieuwen Prof. Dimitri Mavris Prof. Suresh Menon Prof. Joseph Oefelein Prof. Jerry M. Seitzman Prof. Adam Steinberg Prof. Wenting Sun Prof. Mitchell Walker Prof.Vigor Yang Prof. Ben T. Zinn Get the full picture by finding out about all of the AE labs, collaborative groups, and centers Download the P&C fact sheet (PDF). Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum About GT-AE Accreditation K-12 Outreach Educational Objectives & Outcomes Enrollment Data Graduation Data History Mission & Vision Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Faculty-Staff INTRAnet AE & GT Publications Graduate Student Handbook Student Resources Academic Calendar BuzzCard & Key Access Forms GT Catalog Paying for College Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 AE Information Technology Support Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology