Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology Aerospace Engineering | Georgia Institute of Technology | Atlanta, GA Menu Close Home About Accreditation Enrollment Data Advisory Council Contact us! Giving Thanking Our Supporters K-12 Outreach Paying for College Publications & Brochures Visit the AE School Vision, Mission, and Objectives What do you do with a GT Aerospace Engineering degree? Academics Future AE Students Prospective BS AE Prospective MS AE Prospective PhD AE Current AE Students Undergraduate Advisement Graduate Advisement AE Graduate Program FAQ BS/MS Honors Program Registration Helpful Forms AE Curricula 5-Year Course Schedule Undergraduate Curriculum Master's Curriculum Doctoral Curriculum Doctoral Dissertations Careers in AE AE Students AE Career Connection Mentors in Residence Industry & Alumni Corporate Affiliates Program (CAP) Research AE Brown Bag Lecture Series AE Labs, Centers, & Collaborative Groups AE Student Research Opportunities AE Multidisciplinary Research Areas Cyberphysical Systems, Safety, Security, & Reliability Large Scale Computations, Data, & Analytics Mechanics of Multifunctional Structures and Materials Robotics, Autonomy and Human Interaction Space Exploration and Earth Monitoring Sustainable Transportation & Energy Systems System of Systems & Complex System Integration Vertical Lift and Urban Air Mobility Student Life Student Orgs GT AIAA GT Off-Road Club GT SEDS GT Vertical Flight Society GT Women of Aeronautics & Astronautics Ramblin' Rocket Club School of Aerospace Engineering Student Advisory Council (SAESAC) Sigma Gamma Tau Yellow Jacket Flying Club Yellow Jacket Space Program News & Events AE School Events AE School News The AErial View Newsletter Directory Academic Faculty Mentors in Residence Post-doc Fellows Research Faculty Staff Mentors In Residence Apply Your Profile Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Instagram Flickr LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Aerodynamics and Fluid Mechanics Focus The AFM group focuses its research on the fluid flow around and within aircraft, rotorcraft, planetary entry vehicles, engines, and other complex systems. The group conducts fundamental studies of flow physics and employs advanced computational and experimental techniques and facilities to extend the understanding and capabilities of many essential aerospace applications. The Georgia Tech Aerospace program has a strong computational fluid dynamics (CFD) research program in fixed- and rotary-wing applications from incompressible through hypersonic speed regimes. The group also pursued a cutting edge research programs in experimental aeroacoustics, vortex dominated flows, turbulence, and turbulent combustion. Current research activities include: advanced algorithms for unstructured, Cartesian and overset-grid based CFD, experimental and computation investigation of rotary wing and fixed wing vehicle aerodynamics, acoustics of small- and large-scale aircraft, large-eddy simulation (LES) studies of turbulence and mixing, direct numerical simulation of turbulence on massively parallel computers, fluid flow imaging, diagnostics, and control, prediction of hypersonic flows and propulsion/airframe integration, investigation of vortex interactions and vortex flow control, and improved integration of CFD in the design process for aircraft, UAVs, and spacecraft. Impact Many of the newest aircraft designs require the sort of innovative research that is routine for the AE AFM group. Newer vehicles increasingly require highly integrated wing/body aerodynamics, composite structures, and integrated propulsion systems. The cylindrical fuselage and moderately swept wings of older airplanes is quickly being replaced by a wide array of blended wing-body, joined- wing, vertical take-off and land, hypersonic scamjets, and even flapping wing vehicle designs. The growth and success of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and the critical need for highly fuel-efficient and environmentally responsible systems are leading to substantial innovation in aerospace configurations. The AE AFM program advances prediction and control of fluid mechanics as a means of developing highly capable, efficient, and safe aircraft, launch and reentry vehicles, rotorcraft, novel UAV configurations, and wind energy systems. This work is of critical importance to the commercial aerospace industry, government agencies (e.g. NASA, DoD, NSF, DoE, FAA), and to the public in need of safe, affordable aerospace transportation. The AFM group has established itself as a thought leader through programs such as the National Rotorcraft Technology Center and the Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative on Intelligent Turbine Engines. The AFM’s close collaboration with other AE labs - notably the Aerospace Systems Design Laboratory (ASDL) and the Space Systems Design Laboratory (SSDL) - and with the Georgia Tech Center for Space Technology and Research (C-STAR) improve full configuration designs and promote mission success of aircraft and spacecraft. Facilities The AFM group has access to state of the art facilities for both experimental and computational research. The experimental facilities include the John J. Harper Wind Tunnel, located in the basement of the Guggenheim building. The tunnel has a 7 x 9-foot test section and a speed range of 10 to 220 feet-per-second. A variety of vortex flow studies are conducted in this facility. A six-degree-of-freedom wind-driven manipulator, located where, is used to simulate dynamic maneuvers for model testing. Diagnostic capabilities include laser Doppler velocimetry (LDV), particle image velocimetry (PIV), automated scanning of static pressure and condenser microphone sensors; hot-film anemometry; high-frequency pulsed laser sheet imaging, and digital signal and image processing. Additionally, a 42 x 42 inch aerocontrols wind tunnel is available for diagnostic development, flow control experimentation, and small scale testing. Located in the basement of Knight, AE's 9-foot hover facility is a double-walled, double-celled, rotor test chamber that is used as a testbed for rotor aerodynamics and diagnostic developments. The aeroelastic rotor test chamber facility is a state-of-the-art 16-foot hover facility where rotor blades can be subjected to digitally-controlled higher-harmonic excitation using hydraulic actuators on the pitch links. AFM students and faculty also conduct acoustics and active noise control research utilizing the unique aeroacoustic facilities at the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI). These include a 300-feet-per second free-jet wind tunnel housed with an anechoic chamber and an engine jet acoustic test facility. Computational investigation of fluid flow is based on solving various forms of the unsteady, three-dimensional Navier-Stokes equations. The most computationally intensive investigations conducted by AFM in sponsored research projects utilize tera-flop class national supercomputer assets at NASA, DoE, DoD, ONR. An impressive suite of high-performance computing (HPC) facilities at Georgia Tech is also used. Georgia Tech’s Partnership for an Advanced Computing Environment (PACE) provides network infrastructure, software, and use of the FoRCE Research Computing Environment which is a shared cluster that includes nodes, GPU's, and high-speed scratch storage. The computational combustion laboratory includes a supercomputer and workstation clusters utilized largely for investigation of turbulent combustion. Code development and moderately-sized simulations in AFM are performed in computational clusters such in the Aerothermodynamics Research and Technology Lab (ARTLAB), the Computational Fluid Dynamics Lab, and the Nonlinear Computational Aeroelasticity Lab. These Linux-based workstations are used for grid generation, computation, post-processing and scientific visualization of flow solutions. Apply to the Aerospace Engineering Graduate Program Aerodynamics & Fluid Mechanics Faculty The AE faculty collaborating in the Aerodynamics and Fluid Mechanics (AFM) group represent the School's commitment to breadth and depth. Find out more about their background, accomplishments, and vision. Prof. Krishan K. Ahuja Prof. John Dec Prof. Ari Glazer Prof. Jechiel Jagoda Prof. Timothy Charles Lieuwen Prof. Suresh Menon Prof. Joe Oefelein Prof. Stephen M. Ruffin Prof. Lakshmi N. Sankar Prof. Jerry M. Seitzman Prof. Marilyn J. Smith Prof. Adam Steinberg Prof. Mitchell R. Walker II Prof. Vigor Yang Prof. Pui-Kuen Yeung Prof. Ben T. Zinn Get the full picture by finding out about all of the AE labs, collaborative groups, and centers Download the AFM fact sheet (PDF). Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum About GT-AE Accreditation K-12 Outreach Educational Objectives & Outcomes Enrollment Data Graduation Data History Mission & Vision Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Faculty-Staff INTRAnet AE & GT Publications Graduate Student Handbook Student Resources Academic Calendar BuzzCard & Key Access Forms GT Catalog Paying for College Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 AE Information Technology Support Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology