Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology Aerospace Engineering | Georgia Institute of Technology | Atlanta, GA Menu Close Home About Accreditation Enrollment Data Advisory Council Contact us! Giving Thanking Our Supporters K-12 Outreach Paying for College Publications & Brochures Visit the AE School Vision, Mission, and Objectives What do you do with a GT Aerospace Engineering degree? Academics Future AE Students Prospective BS AE Prospective MS AE Prospective PhD AE Current AE Students Undergraduate Advisement Graduate Advisement AE Graduate Program FAQ BS/MS Honors Program Registration Helpful Forms AE Curricula 5-Year Course Schedule Undergraduate Curriculum Master's Curriculum Doctoral Curriculum Doctoral Dissertations Careers in AE AE Students AE Career Connection Mentors in Residence Industry & Alumni Corporate Affiliates Program (CAP) Research AE Brown Bag Lecture Series AE Labs, Centers, & Collaborative Groups AE Student Research Opportunities AE Multidisciplinary Research Areas Cyberphysical Systems, Safety, Security, & Reliability Large Scale Computations, Data, & Analytics Mechanics of Multifunctional Structures and Materials Robotics, Autonomy and Human Interaction Space Exploration and Earth Monitoring Sustainable Transportation & Energy Systems System of Systems & Complex System Integration Vertical Lift and Urban Air Mobility Student Life Student Orgs GT AIAA GT Off-Road Club GT SEDS GT Vertical Flight Society GT Women of Aeronautics & Astronautics Ramblin' Rocket Club School of Aerospace Engineering Student Advisory Council (SAESAC) Sigma Gamma Tau Yellow Jacket Flying Club Yellow Jacket Space Program News & Events AE School Events AE School News The AErial View Newsletter Directory Academic Faculty Mentors in Residence Post-doc Fellows Research Faculty Staff Mentors In Residence Apply Your Profile Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Instagram Flickr LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Edgar Glenn Lightsey Edgar Glenn Lightsey David Lewis Professor of Space Systems Technology Contact Information Email 404.385.4146 ESM 110A/B External Website Education B.S.E - Princeton University - Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering; M.S. - Johns Hopkins University - Electrical Engineering; Ph.D. - Stanford University - Aeronautics & Astronautics; Biography: Dr. Glenn Lightsey is the director of the Space Systems Design Lab and director of the Center for Space Technology And Research at Georgia Tech. His research program focuses on the technology of small satellites, including: guidance, navigation, and control systems; attitude determination and control; formation flying, satellite swarms, and satellite networks; cooperative control; proximity operations and unmanned spacecraft rendezvous; space based Global Positioning System receivers; radionavigation; visual navigation; propulsion; satellite operations; and space systems engineering. Dr. Lightsey has authored and co-authored more than 140 technical articles and publications, including four book chapters. He is an AIAA Fellow and a Founding Member of the AIAA Small Satellite Technical Committee. He is Associate Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Small Satellites. Dr. Lightsey was previously employed at the University of Texas at Austin and NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center. Prior to joining the faculty at the Daniel Guggenheim School of Aerospace Engineering, Dr. Lightsey held the position of Fellow of the W. R. Woolrich Professor in Engineering in the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at The University of Texas at Austin. He also held the title of University Distinguished Teaching Professor, a position designated to less than 5% of the tenured faculty at The University of Texas. In 2011, Dr. Lightsey received the American Society for Engineering Education's John Leland Atwood Award for outstanding aerospace engineering education, and the William David Blunk Memorial Professorship for outstanding undergraduate teaching at the University of Texas at Austin. Honors: AIAA Mechanics and Control of Flight Award (2019); Univ. of Texas Academy of Distinguished Teachers (2012-2014); John Leland Atwood Award for Outstanding Teaching in Aerospace Engineering (2012); Institute of Navigation Tycho Brahe Award (2005), Big XII Faculty Fellow (2004); Halliburton Young Faculty Excellence Award (2000); NASA Manned Flight Awareness Award (1999) Lab/Collaborations: Space Systems Design Lab (SSDL) Disciplines: Systems Design & Optimization Flight Mechanics & Controls AE Multidisciplinary Research Areas: Space Exploration and Earth Monitoring Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum About GT-AE Accreditation K-12 Outreach Educational Objectives & Outcomes Enrollment Data Graduation Data History Mission & Vision Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Faculty-Staff INTRAnet AE & GT Publications Graduate Student Handbook Student Resources Academic Calendar BuzzCard & Key Access Forms GT Catalog Paying for College Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 AE Information Technology Support Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology