Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS KU International Affairs Applied English Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Welcome Contact Us Accreditation and Memberships Mission Statement Academic Programs Select to follow link Intensive English Program Advanced Courses for KU International Students Custom Courses and Programs Select to follow link Programs for KU Schools and Departments Short Programs TEFL Certificate Program Apply Select to follow link Apply to the Intensive English Program Select to follow link IEP Costs TEFL Certificate Program Select to follow link TEFL Certificate Program Details TEFL Certificate Program Frequently Asked Questions TEFL Certificate Program Refund Policy English Language Proficiency Select to follow link English Requirements Testing and Placement Progression Resources Select to follow link AEC Calendar LEO Computer Lab SPEAK Test Select to follow link SPEAK Test Frequently Asked Questions Student Handbook Workshops Student Services Select to follow link Conversation Groups and Activities Cross-Cultural Advising Tutoring at The Point People Select to follow link Administration Faculty Student Assistants Info for Prospective International Students Current International Students myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo KU International Affairs Applied English Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Our students are our highest priority. The Applied English Center is committed to preparing our students linguistically, academically, and culturally for university life. Academic Programs The AEC offers English language classes to students and scholars at all levels of English proficiency. Explore Our Programs English Language Proficiency Learn more about placement and progression through the Intensive English Program (IEP). English Requirements English Requirements Testing & Placement Testing & Placement IEP Progression IEP Progression Your Gateway to the University of Kansas and Beyond The KU Applied English Center works with beginning to advanced English speakers. Our Intensive English Program focuses on academic English and helps prepare students linguistically, academically, and culturally for their program of study. Apply Now Student Services At the AEC, we have a full range of support services for our students. Explore Our Student Services Are you a current AEC student? Let Us Help You! Schedule an Appointment Meet with an Advisor Meet with an Advisor Meet with a Tutor Meet with a Tutor Lippincott Hall 1410 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 aec@ku.edu 785-864-4606 facebook instagram KU International Affairs International Admissions International Support Services International Short Programs Study Abroad & Global Engagement Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.