Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Apparel, Events, and Hospitality Management Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Fashion Show Home> Current Students> Community> Fashion Show The Fashion Show 2022 2022 Livestream Date: April 9, 2022 Time: 7:00 p.m. Tickets for The Fashion Show 2022 are on sale now! Tickets can be purchased at the Iowa State Center Box Office or through Ticketmaster. Want more details? Check out the Fashion Show 2022 website! The long runway, dazzling lights, and stunning clothing designs are just one side of the acclaimed Iowa State annual Fashion Show. Spectators from all corners of the state (and some from out of state) pack CY Stephens Auditorium to nearly sold-out crowds of 2,500 each year — and there is much more to the Fashion Show than meets the eye. The Fashion Show is produced entirely by students. From press releases to stage lighting, students from any major can apply to work on The Fashion Show. It’s recognized by students as an intense leadership challenge, but the hard work and long hours are well worth it. Impact in the Community While The Fashion Show is a much-anticipated event to the Iowa State campus community, the event is much more than one night of glamour and excitement. Throughout the year, the philanthropy committee involves themselves and gives back by working with several organizations including Hughats and Dress for Success. Behind the Scenes Day April 8, 2022 – Behind the Scenes Day is designed for both prospective students and their family members and high school fashion students and their teachers. Visit the Behind the Scenes Day page to learn more! Get Involved Valuable Experience By participating in one of the largest student run fashion shows in the nation, Iowa State students are exposed to leadership training and professional development, that help build their portfolios and future careers. Not only do students learn how to collaborate and develop team-oriented skills, they learn how to work towards a larger show and what it means to be a part of something bigger. Event Planning Course Being accepted as a leader for The Fashion Show includes enrollment in AESHM 272: Fashion Show Promotion and Production for committee members and AESHM 472: Fashion Show Management for directors. Committees From podcasts and special events to stage lighting and set building, students from any major can apply to work on one of The Fashion Show committees. The positions include managerial producers, outreach producers, directors, and committee members. The Fashion Show has 15 different committee teams that need directors and committee members. Director applications open in September, and are contacted at the beginning of October. Committee member applications open later in October, and will be decided by the end of the fall semester. Submit a Case Study Participate in this year’s Lora and Russ Talbot ISU Fashion Show Merchandising Scholarship by completing a case study with this year’s business partner, Innovate 1858. You can read all about it here. Case studies are due by Monday, April 3 at 12:00 noon! Alumni Judges and Designers Many alumni of The Fashion Show have gone on to have successful careers in design, production, and merchandising. Each year, four alums of the program are asked to be guest judges for the garments. Their real-world expertise is invaluable, as they give student designers critique and encouragement. Each year, The Fashion Show also invites a guest designer to be a part of the show festivities, including giving presentations to high-schoolers for Behind-the-Scenes day, interviews with campus newspapers and magazines, showcasing original designs for the runway show, and more. The Fashion Show has been fortunate enough to draw from a pool of talented alumni to return to campus for the event. In the past, Iowa State has hosted these fine designers: Matthew Christopher, CEO, chief designer, and creative director for Matthew Christopher, Inc., a couture bridal fashion house and manufacturer in New York City and Iowa Todd Synder, former Vice President of Menswear Design for J.Crew and co-founder of Tailgate Clothing, Co. Mansoor Amjed, a designer for women’s wovens at Marc by Marc Jacobs Katherine Noyes, designer for her own women’s clothing label Kristine Eikenbary, head designer for both Flip and Seduis Marck Marcellus, CEO and head designer for The Denim Factory Hannah Leavell, women’s wear designer for Vineyard Vines Jerod Harmon and Derek Huenecke, footwear designers for Vans, 2014 graduates of Iowa State’s industrial design program Need More Information? The Fashion Show 2022 Managerial Producers: Carly Haaning and Lauren Johnson Outreach Producers: Emily DeDoncker and Hannah Iverson-Jones Faculty Advisor: Sarah Bennett-George fs.producers@iastate.edu Community International Connections Student Spotlight Clubs and Organizations Fashion Show Past shows Merchandising Scholarship Submitting an Entry Diversity and Inclusion Trend Student Spotlight: Julia Tighe "It’s cool to see everyone focus in on their strengths and come together into this big, overall fashion show.” View Career Connections: Danielle Elliot Major: Event management Organization: Iowa State Athletics View International Connections: Ashley Martyniak Major: Apparel, Merchandising, and Design Program: London College of Fashion, Fashion Business Semester Destination: England View Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Youtube Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Apparel, Events, and Hospitality Management 31 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1078 515-294-7474 Human Sciences Student Services 131 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-294-6466 hsss@iastate.edu Quick Links iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility