Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Apparel, Events, and Hospitality Management Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Find Your major Apparel, Merchandising, and Design “The campus itself sold me. But a big part of it, too, was the opportunities that Iowa State presented, and I felt like I could thrive in this environment.” Read Hannah’s story. The Place To Be Iowa State University (ISU) is the place to be for textiles and clothing. Our students, faculty, and staff are on the cutting edge of education in this industry. Here are some reasons why hundreds of students choose the Iowa State apparel, merchandising, and design program: Getting opportunities to model in, design for, and produce the annual Fashion Show — one of the largest student-produced fashion shows in the nation. Learning in state-of-the-art facilities, such as a textiles conservation laboratory, detailed historical garment collection, apparel production center, and clothing museum which expose you to new equipment and complex processes. Using high-tech equipment like the 3-D body scanner, industrial-sized digital printer, and new design software. Hands-on experience with this equipment is hard to find at other schools and gives you an edge for internships, jobs, and graduate school. Learning from some of the best experts in the field. Apparel, merchandising, and design faculty come from a variety of backgrounds (academic, industry, and publications) that will help you learn what it takes to succeed in this field. As an apparel, merchandising, and design student, you will build a comprehensive base of knowledge about the textiles and apparel industry, including merchandising and marketing strategies, product development, and production processes. You’ll further define your career path by choosing from either the merchandising, design or product development options for this bachelor of science degree. Top Programs in the U.S. 2020 rankings by Fashion School show our fashion design and merchandising programs are No. 5 among public fashion programs. Fashion merchandising ranks No. 1 in the Midwest and fashion design ranks No. 3 in the Midwest. Read more. Creative and Technical Design As a designer, your option has been accredited by the National Association of Schools and Art and Design. Your studies will traverse traditional hand methods and high-tech innovations in patternmaking, illustration, construction techniques, surface and structure design, technical design, and portfolio processes. Enter your designs in Iowa State’s celebrated Fashion Show. Program Information Curriculum requirements 2020-21 catalog requirements (PDF) 4-Year plans 2020-21 sample 4-year plan (PDF) Product Development and Innovation As a product innovator, apply your knowledge of textiles and design thinking to develop and prototype products for special markets, including accessories, non-apparel soft goods, and functional design. Program Information Curriculum requirements 2020-21 catalog requirements (PDF) 4-Year plans 2020-21 sample 4-year plan (PDF) Product Management and Sourcing Take a balanced approach to creative and analytics. Learn to manage a product as you prepare each style for the production process. Manage style and line details, material and production sourcing, cost control, and timely delivery to offer exceptional quality and value to your customers. Program Information Curriculum requirements 2020-21 catalog requirements (PDF) 4-Year plans 2020-21 sample 4-year plan (PDF) Merchandising and Retail Analytics As a merchandiser, get savvy in the world of buying, visual merchandising, retail marketing, entrepreneurship, and merchandise and brand management. Move forward with an entrepreneurial business plan for a brick-and-mortar boutique or an online venture. Compete and learn by presenting your ideas to a panel of judges in Iowa State’s annual entrepreneurship showcase. Program Information Curriculum requirements 2020-21 catalog requirements (PDF) 4-Year plans 2020-21 sample 4-year plan (PDF) Looking to diversify a related major or degree? A merchandising certificate is also available. Fashion Communication As a fashion inﬂuencer, your studies will build on the basics of merchandising, visual merchandising, trend forecasting, marketing, and entrepreneurship. Add a required minor in journalism, public relations, event management, or communication studies to prepare for a career in magazine, public relations, digital inﬂuencing, and customer visual experiences. Program Information Curriculum requirements 2020-21 catalog requirements (PDF) 4-Year plans 2020-21 sample 4-year plan (PDF) Accelerated degree option An accelerated degree option is available for each of these options. Interested in a Master’s? A concurrent bachelor of science and master’s of science program is available. Get Involved Learning Community Clubs and Organizations AMD Study Abroad Programs The apparel, merchandising, and design program offers various international opportunities through the College of Human Sciences International Programs office. Careers and Internships Graduates of the apparel, merchandising, and design programs are well-prepared for entrance in careers in technical and creative design, buying, visual merchandising, and sourcing careers. They are also able to pursue further education options in graduate programs. Graduate programs in apparel, merchandising, and design Career services Prepare for your next job or internship with Career Services, where staff will assist you with job and internship searches, interview preparation, and resume/cover letter review. Look at a list of career possibilities inside the apparel, merchandising and design industries. Internships Internships are available with corporate headquarters of retailers, design firms of all sizes, stores, e-commerce agencies, showrooms, costumers, stylists, public relations firms, magazines, catalog companies, fair trade firms, forecasting firms, and shopping centers. Students research potential internships and employers in two classes: AESHM 113, Professional Development, and AESHM 311, Seminar on Careers and Internships. To apply for internships and full-time positions, use CyHire, on-campus career fairs, career services, and talk to your internship coordinator. See where other students have interned. Visit Career Connections. Ready for the Next Step? Visit Apply Need More Information? Reach out! Request more information. 515-294-7838 Student Spotlight: Lindsey Skaaland "I came for The Fashion Show in spring of 2019, and it was the final point for me where I knew [Iowa State] was where I wanted to be." View Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Youtube Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Apparel, Events, and Hospitality Management 31 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1078 515-294-7474 Human Sciences Student Services 131 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-294-6466 hsss@iastate.edu Quick Links iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility