Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Apparel, Events, and Hospitality Management Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box The Joan Bice Underwood Tearoom Home> Current Students> Facilities> The Joan Bice Underwood Tearoom The Joan Bice Underwood Tearoom The Joan Bice Underwood Tearoom is a restaurant/classroom teaching operation within Iowa State University’s world-renowned hospitality management program. The facility dates back to 1926, when it was built during an addition project in MacKay. It is named for Joan Bice, a 1952 graduate of Home Economics, who enjoyed working in the Tearoom. In 2001, a generous donation was made to honor Joan Bice Underwood and renovate and restore the facility, just like it would have been when she worked there. The Food Production and Service Management Experience class (HSPM 380L) currently operates the restaurant/classroom. It is a non-profit, approximately 90-seat learning laboratory. Meal service is provided for faculty, staff, students, and visitors. Breakfast Breakfast is served on Mondays from 8 to 11 a.m. You can take your breakfast go. Or, enjoy breakfast in the tearoom while connecting with friends or colleagues It’s also a great place to start your day. Pastries are fresh baked, items are homemade and our menu changes weekly. We also have a variety of fruit, parfaits, quiche and more. Pricing Two items: $7 Three items: $9 Four Items: $12 Coffee, juice and tea are complimentary! Lunch Lunch is served from Tuesday – Friday 11:30 a.m. – 12:45 p.m. We recommend guests arrive at the tearoom between 11:30 and noon for dining room service. Reservations, Cancellations, and Payment Walk-ins are welcome for dining in the Tearoom. You can also make a reservation online at any time. Or you can make a reservation over the phone at 515-294-3330 between 9:30 a.m. and 2 p.m. Make a reservation online Cash, check, credit and debit cards are accepted. Gift Certificates Gift certificates are available in increments of $1.00. They are available for purchase Tuesday-Friday, 11:30 a.m. – 12:45 p.m., in the Tearoom. To-Go Options All food items on the menu are available as a to-go option. You may call the Tearoom to pre-order food items, or stop in and order during normal business hours. Our retail operations are run out of the back of the Tearoom at the kitchen entrance (16 MacKay Hall). If you would like to receive a daily email of what menu items we have available, please call 515-294-3330, or email at tearoom@iastate.edu. Need More Information? Joan Bice Underwood Tearoom 23 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 tearoom@iastate.edu 515-294-3330 Facilities Digital Apparel and Textiles Studio (DATS Lab) Technology OptiTex Computer-Aided Design Software Body Scanning Technology AESHM Data Analytic Lab AESHM Club Research Lab The Joan Bice Underwood Tearoom Tearoom Classes Tearoom Menus Directions Laboratories for Functional Textiles and Protective Clothing Textile Testing Lab Lab for Heat and Thermal Protection Research Lab for Clothing Comfort Performance Design and Production Lab Innovate 1858 Product Pitch Sessions The Meeting Room SPARKS Textiles and Clothing Museum Mission, Vision, and Values History Our Team Conservation, Storage, and Technology Galleries and Exhibitions Past exhibitions Fashion, Resistance, and Black Liberation: 1970s and Today Fashion & Dandyism 1960s Revolution Denim: Dress and the Evolution of American Identities Fashion Forward: Centering Justice in Fashion History Des Moines Gay Men’s Chorus, Queer Spaces, Collectives Styles, and Activist Dress, 1984 to the Present Collegiate Fashion & Activism: Black Women’s Styles on the College Campus By Design: Process – Production – Profession Fashion Show 2018 Winners Exhibition Designed for a Modern Life: Decorative Arts & Fashion in the Midcentury What’s New? Recent Acquisitions to the Textiles and Clothing Museum Collection Fashion Show 2019 Winners Exhibition Queer Fashion & Style: Stories from the Heartland Talking Textiles: Communicating Through Cloth Visiting/Engaging with the Museum Fashion and JUSTICE Speaker Series Public Programming Classes Internships Student Work Positions Honors Projects Historic Fashion Reserves Program Pitch an Exhibition Agatha Hupenbecker Burnet Endowed Graduate Research and Teaching Assistantship Request a Tour Request Objects for use in an ISU Class Student Request to Borrow Object for use in Course Assignment Request an ISU Class Visit Request a Non-ISU Class Visit Museum Catalog Support the Museum Object Donation Object Donation Form Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Youtube Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Apparel, Events, and Hospitality Management 31 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1078 515-294-7474 Human Sciences Student Services 131 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-294-6466 hsss@iastate.edu Quick Links iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility