Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Apparel, Events, and Hospitality Management Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Find Your major Event Management Event planning is a growing career field. The U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics, reports demand for event managers is expected to grow 10 percent between 2016 and 2026. The event management major at Iowa State University (ISU) is the only four-year program of its kind in the state of Iowa and one of only a few in the Midwest. Students in the event management major learn from the best. Our faculty members are experts in a wide range of areas related to marketing, technology, promotion, brand management, trend analysis, resource management, catering, and finances. Being on the ISU campus provides event management students with unique opportunities to gain valuable experience and internal internships: Each spring students in EVENT 485 propose the concept, location, schedule, menu, entertainment, décor and more for “The Conference”. In the fall students enrolled in EVENT 486 get the hands-on experience putting plans into action and producing “The Conference” for the ISU and Ames communities. Students can be involved with the annual ISU Fashion Show — one of the largest student-produced fashion shows in the nation. Other opportunities to gain event planning skills include the athletics department, the alumni association, ISU Dining/catering, the Greek system, and Dance Marathon. Facilities and laboratories The Meeting Room is a laboratory providing students hands-on access to a number of cutting-edge technology tools like virtual reality headsets, event sound and lighting equipment, wireless connectivity to displays for bring-your-own-display, and group/collaboration furniture. Program information Event management Curriculum requirements 2020-21 catalog requirements (PDF) 4-year plans 2020-21 sample 4-year plan (PDF) Syllabi View class syllabi We’re #1 Named best college in the United States for an event planning degree. Read more. Accelerated degree option An accelerated degree option is available for the event management program. Get Involved Learning Community Clubs and Organizations Event management study abroad programs The event management program offers various international opportunities through the College of Human Sciences International Programs office. Careers and internships Graduates of the event management program are well-prepared for entrance in careers in special event coordination, cruise events, conference/hotel guest service management, and trade show directing. New master’s degree in event management starting next year! Career services Prepare for your next job or internship with Career Services, where staff help you with job and internship searches, interview preparation, and resume/cover letter reviews. Look at a list of career possibilities inside the event planning industry. Internships Various internships are available within event management. Students research potential internships and employers in two courses: AESHM 113, Professional Development, and AESHM 311, Seminar on Careers and Internships. To apply for internships and full-time positions, use CyHire, on-campus career fairs, career services, and talk to your internship coordinator. See where other students have interned. Visit Career Connections. Ready for the Next Step? Visit Apply Need More Information? Reach out! Request more information. 515-294-7838 Student Spotlight: Claire Turner “It was cool to see the impact [event management] can have on people and families. At the end of the day, you go home and can be happy about what you did.” View Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Youtube Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Apparel, Events, and Hospitality Management 31 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1078 515-294-7474 Human Sciences Student Services 131 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-294-6466 hsss@iastate.edu Quick Links iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility