Class syllabi Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Contact us Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Skip To Main Content Department of Apparel, Events, and Hospitality Management Search the website Open Search Box College of Human Sciences Open Mobile Menu Search the website Open Search Box Find Your major Hospitality Management From some of the world’s largest, high-class resorts and dining hot-spots to family-owned and run lodgings, graduates from the Iowa State University (ISU) hospitality management program are making their mark from coast to coast — and everywhere in between. The hospitality management major at Iowa State is known world-wide for its excellence in research. It was recently ranked first for internship experiences and seventh overall by Intelligent.com. The major also ranked 15th among the world’s top 100 hospitality and tourism programs, according to the Journal of Hospitality & Tourism Research. On campus, students have access to great learning labs, such as the Joan Bice Underwood Tearoom — an approximately 100-seat dining facility. Our 200+ hospitality management students also benefit from smaller classroom sizes where faculty can get to know them. Facilities and laboratories Joan Bice Underwood Tearoom is a non-profit, teaching operation in a hands-on learning lab that serves approximately 100 guests. The Quantity Food Production and Service Management Experience class operates the Tearoom. Meal service is provided for faculty, staff, students, and visitors. Program information Hospitality management Curriculum requirements 2020-21 catalog requirements (PDF) 4-Year plans 2020-21 sample 4-year plan (PDF) Syllabi View HSPM class syllabi Get Involved Learning Community Clubs and Organizations Hospitality management study abroad programs The hospitality management program offers various international opportunities through the College of Human Sciences International Programs office. Careers and internships People with a hospitality degree are well-prepared for careers in hotel/restaurant are well-prepared for entrance in careers in hotel/restaurant management, tourism professions, and food service management. Career services Prepare for your next job or internship with Career Services, where staff help you with job and internship searches, interview preparation, and resume/cover letter reviews. Look at a list of career possibilities inside the hospitality management industry. Internships Internships are available with Iowa State-affiliated groups such as Iowa State dining or hospitality units. Internships are often available with hotels, caterers, independent businesses, and country clubs to name just a few of the opportunities you will find. Students research potential internships and employers in two classes: AESHM 113, Professional Development, and AESHM 311, Seminar on Careers and Internships. To apply for internships and full-time positions, use CyHire, on-campus career fairs, career services, and talk to your internship coordinator. See where other students have interned. Visit Career Connections. Graduate programs Ready for the Next Step? Visit Apply Need More Information? Reach out! Request more information. 515-294-7838 Student Spotlight: Jacob Wallace "I have accomplished my responsibilities and goals with flying colors." View Close Video Player Facebook Link Instagram Link Youtube Link Twitter Link LinkedIn Link Iowa State University Merit Pages Link iastate.edu Contact Department of Apparel, Events, and Hospitality Management 31 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, Iowa 50011-1078 515-294-7474 Human Sciences Student Services 131 MacKay Hall 2302 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1078 515-294-6466 hsss@iastate.edu Quick Links iastate.edu Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility