Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Administration and Finance Breadcrumb Home Main navigation About About Mission and Vision Leadership Organizational Chart New A&F Leadership Position to Focus on Workplace Culture Reporting Units Reporting Units Office of Information Technology Georgia Tech Police Department Human Resources Infrastructure and Sustainability Infrastructure and Sustainability Units Capital Planning and Space Management Environmental Health and Safety Facilities Management Sustainability and Building Operations Finance and Planning Real Estate Development A&F Strategic Plan Five Year Strategic Plan Amplify Impact Cultivate Well-Being Lead by Example Networks Campus Engagement Alcohol Approval Form Student Employment Tours/Experts A&F Staff Culture Advisory Council Ethics Programming and Education Council User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Amplify Impact Follow Administration and Finance's focus areas for FY22. Goal: Students Enable transformative learning experiences to help students grow as creative, ethical, globally aware, and technologically sophisticated leaders. Objective Collaborate and partner with the campus community to effectively pilot and translate learning opportunities into real world applications. Strategy Create an A&F Student Engagement Committee consisting of two working groups: Charge first working group with providing student internship and employment opportunities across A&F. Charge second working group with creating and managing mentorship program. Objective Explore and pilot ways to provide more access to and creative use of existing and emerging resources including campus space and institutional data. Strategy Establish a plan to provide students with greater access to campus resources such as space, data, and subject matter expertise: Space – make A&F space available to students and faculty targeting underserved populations including religious groups, Greeks, athletes. Data – make A&F data available to students and faculty for research, capstone projects, and other academic and research needs. Subject Matter Expertise – make A&F subject matter expertise available to students and faculty to influence and inspire (e.g. guest teaching/lecturing, mentorships). Learn more about how Capital Planning and Space Management works with students. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN