Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Administration and Finance Breadcrumb Home Main navigation About About Mission and Vision Leadership Organizational Chart New A&F Leadership Position to Focus on Workplace Culture Reporting Units Reporting Units Office of Information Technology Georgia Tech Police Department Human Resources Infrastructure and Sustainability Infrastructure and Sustainability Units Capital Planning and Space Management Environmental Health and Safety Facilities Management Sustainability and Building Operations Finance and Planning Real Estate Development A&F Strategic Plan Five Year Strategic Plan Amplify Impact Cultivate Well-Being Lead by Example Networks Campus Engagement Alcohol Approval Form Student Employment Tours/Experts A&F Staff Culture Advisory Council Ethics Programming and Education Council User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Coffee with Kelly Fox Kelly Fox, executive vice president for Administration and Finance, invites you to a morning coffee break to share what is on your mind. Please use the sign up form below. Space is limited to 10 attendees per session and RSVPs are required. Attendees will receive information, including location, closer to the date of their selected session. Full Name Department (e.g. OIT, Human Resources, ERP, etc.) Email Address Please select ONE of the following options Please select ONE of the following options If the session you select is overbooked, you will be notified via email and offered a future date (additional dates will be added as needed). Select your preferred session below. Wednesday, September 14, from 8:30 to 9:30 a.m. [9 spots available] Wednesday, November 2, from 8:30 to 9:30 a.m. [10 spots available] Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN