Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Administration and Finance Breadcrumb Home Main navigation About About Mission and Vision Leadership Organizational Chart New A&F Leadership Position to Focus on Workplace Culture Reporting Units Reporting Units Office of Information Technology Georgia Tech Police Department Human Resources Infrastructure and Sustainability Infrastructure and Sustainability Units Capital Planning and Space Management Environmental Health and Safety Facilities Management Sustainability and Building Operations Finance and Planning Real Estate Development A&F Strategic Plan Five Year Strategic Plan Amplify Impact Cultivate Well-Being Lead by Example Networks Campus Engagement Alcohol Approval Form Student Employment Tours/Experts A&F Staff Culture Advisory Council Ethics Programming and Education Council User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search New A&F Leadership Position to Focus on Workplace Culture A Message from Kelly Fox, Executive Vice President for Administration and Finance, to Staff on Sept. 21, 2021 Administration and Finance (A&F) strives to build and foster a culture consistent with the Institute’s values and is working on several initiatives designed to build relationships and create an inclusive and high-performing environment for our employees and students. To successfully implement these initiatives, I am creating a new role that will report directly to the executive vice president (EVP) for A&F: Chief of Staff and Associate Vice President for Special Initiatives. I am pleased to announce that Kim D. Harrington, Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) for Georgia Tech, has accepted my appointment to this new role. In this new position, she will serve as an advisor to the EVP for A&F and a liaison to campus leadership — including faculty, staff and students — to help strengthen the workplace culture and create an environment that is healthy and productive. Kim’s previous leadership experience as Director of the Student Center, combined with six-plus years as Georgia Tech’s CHRO, makes her uniquely qualified to lead this people-centric effort. In this new role, Kim will be responsible for the following: Create an inclusive environment that demonstrates commitment through accountability to inclusive practices throughout the organization. Inspire the A&F community to engage with students and lead from a student-centered approach. Serve as a representative of the A&F leadership team to campus leadership and establish effective relationships with both internal and external constituencies. In addition, the Chief of Staff and Associate Vice President for Special Initiatives will lead the following strategic initiatives for A&F: A&F Staff Culture Advisory Council Emerging Leaders Program Ethics Ambassador Program A&F Student Engagement Committee I want to thank Kim for her leadership of Georgia Tech Human Resources. Kim will remain in her current role as CHRO until new leadership is brought on board. We will immediately begin a search for the permanent CHRO position with plans to welcome new leadership in early 2022. More information will be shared as it becomes available. During this time, the work on Administrative Excellence and the HR Transformation will continue. I ask that you remain fully engaged in these efforts as we are actively laying the foundation for the future success of these projects. Please join me in congratulating Kim on her new role on the A&F leadership team. Sincerely, Kelly Fox Executive Vice President Administration and Finance Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN