Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Administration and Finance Breadcrumb Home Main navigation About About Mission and Vision Leadership Organizational Chart New A&F Leadership Position to Focus on Workplace Culture Reporting Units Reporting Units Office of Information Technology Georgia Tech Police Department Human Resources Infrastructure and Sustainability Infrastructure and Sustainability Units Capital Planning and Space Management Environmental Health and Safety Facilities Management Sustainability and Building Operations Finance and Planning Real Estate Development A&F Strategic Plan Five Year Strategic Plan Amplify Impact Cultivate Well-Being Lead by Example Networks Campus Engagement Alcohol Approval Form Student Employment Tours/Experts A&F Staff Culture Advisory Council Ethics Programming and Education Council User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search A&F Staff Culture Advisory Council Workplace culture sets the tone in every organization. To help create and promote a strong and healthy workplace culture at Georgia Tech, several units and colleges on campus have implemented a Staff Culture Advisory Council. To date, these councils have been successful in improving staff morale; providing more opportunities for staff to develop within their careers and serve in leadership roles; and empowering staff to share their experiences in an open and trustworthy manner. This fall, Administration and Finance (A&F) created its own Staff Culture Advisory Council to serve as an advisory committee to leadership to: Create a collaborative environment, Build workplace relationships, Foster employee wellbeing, and Promote equity, diversity, and inclusion. Responsibilities Each member of the A&F Staff Culture Advisory Council has the following responsibilities: Represent and serve as a liaison between staff members and their respective unit leadership. Attend Council meetings and meet with unit leaders on a monthly basis to provide status updates. Participate in and/or lead ongoing projects. Promote respective unit level staff engagement activities. Propose initiatives and/or programs to support the Council’s overall mission. Share information among the respective unit. Valerie Gwynn - Chair Compensation Consultant Human Resources Contact Valerie Michael Dean Carpenter Infrastructure & Sustainability Contact Michael Grace Battle Virtual Production and Client Support Specialist Information Technology Contact Grace Allyson Evans Sr. Student Accts Specialist Bursar & Treasury Services Contact Allyson Emma Brodzik Project Manager Solid Waste Management & Recycling Contact Emma Donald "DJ" Jordan Groundskeeper Infrastructure & Sustainability Contact DJ Renee Brown Program Manager Real Estate Development Office Contact Renee Jessica Shaffer Network Support Engineer Information Technology Contact Jessica Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN