Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Administration and Finance Main navigation About About Mission and Vision Leadership Organizational Chart New A&F Leadership Position to Focus on Workplace Culture Reporting Units Reporting Units Office of Information Technology Georgia Tech Police Department Human Resources Infrastructure and Sustainability Infrastructure and Sustainability Units Capital Planning and Space Management Environmental Health and Safety Facilities Management Sustainability and Building Operations Finance and Planning Real Estate Development A&F Strategic Plan Five Year Strategic Plan Amplify Impact Cultivate Well-Being Lead by Example Networks Campus Engagement Alcohol Approval Form Student Employment Tours/Experts A&F Staff Culture Advisory Council Ethics Programming and Education Council User account menu Contact Us Open Search Search Search Guidance for Employees COVID-19 guidance for Georgia Tech employees on policies, procedures and well-being during the modified operations caused by the spread of Coronavirus. Learn More Home A&F Virtual Town Halls Leadership in Administration and Finance (A&F) continues to conduct virtual town halls for staff in A&F. Employees have the opportunity to ask questions and hear the latest on how Georgia Tech – specifically units in A&F – is responding to this rapidly evolving situation. Click here to view the recorded sessions. Covid-19 Institute Operations Updates Click here to view the latest updates on campus operations. Resources for the campus community will continue to be posted at health.gatech.edu/coronavirus. Recent News Georgia Tech Purchasing Helps Ensure Responsible Stewardship At Georgia Tech, just about everyone, from research faculty to student employees, at some point needs to make a purchase using Georgia Tech funds. Georgia Leaders Discuss the Business of Climate Solutions Georgia Tech President Ángel Cabrera and Delta Air Lines CEO Ed Bastian discuss how businesses can make positive changes to address urgent issues such as climate change. There are currently no scheduled events. Emergency Protocols The Georgia Tech Police Department (GTPD) Office of Emergency Preparedness is focused on helping the Institute reduce the effects of disasters through preparedness, response, recovery, and mitigation activities. Learn More EthicsPoint Hotline At Georgia Tech, our mission is to develop leaders who advance technology and improve the human condition. We accomplish our mission by putting Ethics First. Learn More Coffee with Kelly Kelly Fox, executive vice president for Administration and Finance, invites you to a morning coffee break. Learn More Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN