Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University African American and African Diaspora Studies Department Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Academics People IRAAS/Centers News Mellon Arts Project Events Support Open Positions Research Courses Spring 2022 Courses FALL 2021 Undergraduate Graduate CARSS Give to IRAAS Artist-in-Residence Black Arts Dialogues Black Curators Matter International Visiting Professor Postdoctoral Fellowship Give To IRAAS Give To Zachary Cornell Husser Prize Fund Publications African American and African Diaspora Studies Department You are here: Home News New Podcast Series 2020 "Black Lives: In the Era of COVID 19" New Podcast Series 2020 June 17, 2020 Black Lives Matter Introducing a new podcast series, "Black Lives: In the Era of COVID 19." Join Columbia University professors Samuel K. Roberts, Jr., Mabel O. Wilson and their guests as they discuss the impacts of COVID19 on Black life in New York City and beyond. Episode #1 - Professor Malo Hutson, Planning, GSAPP, Columbia University Episode #2 - Trammell Thompson, Progressive Action and MTA Subway Conductor Episode #3 - Dr. Oni Blackstock, outgoing Assistant Commissioner for the New York City Health Department’s Bureau of HIV Episode #4 - Keesha Middlemass, Associate Professor in the Department of Political Science, Rutgers School of Criminal Justice Episode #5 - Matt Swain on Being an Essential Healthcare Worker During the Crisis Episode #6 - Saeeda Dunston, executive director of Elmcor Youth & Adult Activities, Inc., a non-profit, multi-service organization located in Queens, New York Episode #7 - Prof. Jelani Cobb, author and Ira A. Lipman Professor of Journalism Episode #8 - Prof. Steven Thrasher, Northwestern University Episode #9 - Prof. Alondra Nelson, president of the Social Science Research Council Black Lives: In the Era of COVID 19 Racial inequality. Income inequality. Structural inequality. Health inequality. The novel coronavirus crisis has exposed issues of inequity and injustice that continue to shape local and nationwide responses. Join Columbia University professors Samuel K. Roberts, Jr., Mabel O. Wilson and their guests as they discuss the impacts of COVID19 on Black life in New York City and beyond. Brought to you by the Institute for Research in African American Studies and the Department of African American and African Diaspora Studies at Columbia University. Can be heard on these platforms. Apple Stitcher Spotify Radio Public Listen to recent episodes here: Episode 1 In the Era of COVID 19: Professor Malo Hutson, on the Built Environment. In the first episode of “Black Lives: In the Age of COVID19” Columbia University’s Samuel K. Roberts, Jr and Mabel O. Wilson speak with Professor Malo Hutson,, academic scholar and practitioner in the areas of community development, racial and ethnic inequalities, urban sustainability, and urban policy. Professor Malo Hutson discusses how the built environment impacts health in Black communities, especially in New York City. Episode 2 Tramell Thompson on the Frontlines of NYC Subways In this episode, our hosts Samuel Roberts and Mabel O. Wilson are joined by Metropolitan Transportation Authority conductor, union member, and community organizer Tramell Thompson. Mr. Thompson speaks about the impact of the novel coronavirus on New York City transit workers including the dangers, disparities, and loss experienced by some of the City’s most essential workers. Episode 3 Dr. Oni Blackstock on NYC’s Health response In the third episode in this series, hosts Samuel Roberts and Mabel O. Wilson speak with Oni Blackstock, M.D., M.H.S., Assistant Commissioner for the New York City Health Department’s Bureau of HIV. Dr. Blackstock discusses the impacts of race on health services, including the disparities and inequities in health outcomes. Dr. Blackstock also talks about the parallels between her work in HIV prevention and treatment and the response to the novel coronavirus. Episode 4 Prof. Keesha Middlemass on Incarceration and Re-entry In this episode, our hosts Samuel Roberts and Mabel O. Wilson talk with Prof. Keesha Middlemass of Howard University. Prof. Middlemass discusses the effects of the novel coronavirus as it travels through jails and prisons in the U.S., and how exposure and infection impact incarcerated populations and those who are re-entering communities. Included in this discussion are the ways in which the carceral system has changed under COVID-19. Episode 5 Matt Swain on Being an Essential Healthcare Worker During the Crisis This week, our hosts Samuel Roberts and Mabel O. Wilson speak with Matt Swain, a hospital worker who shares his experience of working during the pandemic. Mr. Swain discusses the changes he witnessed to protocols and procedures at his job, issues with personal protective equipment, and his own concerns over exposure to the virus. Swain also talks about the more personal aspects of functioning during the crisis in New York City. Episode 6 Saeeda Dunston on Providing Community Services During a Pandemic In our sixth episode, Samuel Roberts and Mabel O. Wilson are joined by Saeeda Dunston, executive director of Elmcor Youth & Adult Activities, Inc., a non-profit, multi-service organization located in Queens, New York. Ms. Dunston speaks about how the novel coronavirus has impacted those receiving support, how Elmcor is dealing with the increasing need for services, and what organizing looks like in the current era. Episode 7 Prof. Jelani Cobb on the Pandemic, History, and our ‘American Spring' In this episode, Samuel Roberts and Mabel O. Wilson are in conversation with Jelani Cobb, author and Ira A. Lipman Professor of Journalism. Prof. Cobb talks about our current circumstances - the coronavirus crisis and the ongoing uprisings stemming from police violence - through a historical and journalistic lens. Included in this discussion are this year’s election and Cobb’s upcoming book project. Episode 8 Prof. Steven Thrasher on the Criminalization of Disease and Poverty In our eighth episode, hosts Samuel Roberts and Mabel O. Wilson speak with Prof. Steven Thrasher of Northwestern University. Prof. Thrasher discusses his work on social justice and the LGBTQ community, including the ways that “racism, homophobia, policing, medicine, incarceration, culture, and health intersect.” Thrasher also discusses the ways the HIV epidemic has shaped our current coronavirus response, as well as his upcoming project. Episode 9 Prof. Alondra Nelson on Science, Technology, and Social Inequality In the final episode of this series, our hosts Samuel Roberts and Mabel O. Wilson speak with Prof. Alondra Nelson, president of the Social Science Research Council. Prof. Nelson shares her observations on the changes, adaptations, and recurring issues that have unfolded during the novel coronavirus pandemic through a sociological lens. Please join us here for future episodes on Black Lives. Tags Civil Rights Black Lives Matter News May 24, 2022 Dr. Josef Sorett Appointed Dean of Columbia College and Vice President of Undergraduate Education May 20, 2022 The Department of African American & African Diaspora Studies Congratulates & Celebrates all our 2022 Graduates May 12, 2022 2022 Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching- Josef Sorett May 12, 2022 Professor Frank Guridy Named New Executive Director of the Holder Initiative May 12, 2022 2022 Winner of The Lionel Trilling Book Award - Farah Jasmine Griffin Department Office758 Schermerhorn Extension, Mail Code 5512 · New York, NY 10027 Mailing Address1200 Amsterdam Ave., Mail Code 5512 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-7080 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close