Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University African American and African Diaspora Studies Department Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Academics People IRAAS/Centers News Mellon Arts Project Events Support Open Positions Research Courses Spring 2022 Courses FALL 2021 Undergraduate Graduate CARSS Give to IRAAS Artist-in-Residence Black Arts Dialogues Black Curators Matter International Visiting Professor Postdoctoral Fellowship Give To IRAAS Give To Zachary Cornell Husser Prize Fund Publications African American and African Diaspora Studies Department Home Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Dr. Josef Sorett Appointed Dean of Columbia College & Vice President of Undergr… Congratulations to all our 2022 Graduates AAADS CONGRATULATES PROFESSOR MABEL O. WILSON Dr. Farah Jasmine Griffin wins 2022 PROSE Award Previous Next "We are embarking on an agenda to highlight and sustain the centrality of the arts in African American and African Diaspora Studies and its broader intellectual community. Look for programs with the Artist-in-Residence and our Black Arts Dialogues, and courses with our International Scholar-In-Residence and Postdoctoral Fellow emphasizing music, creative writing and visual arts. This is an exciting time of growth and opportunity for our department." −Kellie Jones, Chair-African American & African Diaspora Studies Kellie Jones, Chair-African American & African Diaspora Studies Read the Letter from the Chair Our Programs Undergraduate Concentration BA in African American Studies MA in African American Studies Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events. More Events VIDEOS Mabel Wilson on Architecture and Race Professor Wilson speaks about how she views architecture through the prism of race and race relations in the United States. African American and African Diaspora Studies Department This video explores the history of African American and African Diaspora Studies at Columbia and the significance of becoming a department. Frank Guridy on New York City and Black Culture Professor Frank Guridy explains the significance of Columbia being on the border of Harlem and the location's influence on his work on black history. Past Events Discussion of Darnell L. Moore's New Book "No Ashes in the Fire" "Mountains That Take Wing" Documentary Screening Talk Back w/ Dr. Angela Y. Davis "Vexy Thing: Gender and Liberation" Book Panel Discussion The Norton Anthology Of African American Literature: Twenty Years Later More Past Events Selected Publications Birds of Fire: Jazz, Rock, Funk, and the Creation of Fusion Kevin Fellezs Forging Diaspora: Afro-Cubans and African Americans in a World of Empire and Jim Crow Frank Guridy The Practice of Diaspora: Literature, Translation, and the Rise of Black Internationalism Brent Hayes Edwards The Universe Bends Toward Justice: Radical Reflections on the Bible, the Church and the Body Politic Obery M. Hendricks More Publications Google Map Location Department Office758 Schermerhorn Extension, Mail Code 5512 · New York, NY 10027 Mailing Address1200 Amsterdam Ave., Mail Code 5512 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-7080 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close