Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation About Us Calendar Courses News Resources Department of African American Studies Graduate Program Undergraduate Major Research & Collections Media Gallery Pickens Prize People Contact Us Welcome Welcome to the Department of African American Studies at Yale. The African American Studies Department examines, from numerous disciplinary perspectives, the experiences of people of African descent in Black Atlantic societies, including the United States, the Caribbean, and Latin America. Learn More From the Collection The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., shown here with former Yale trustee the Rev. Gardiner M. Day, received an honorary LL.D degree at Yale’s 263rd commencement in 1964. Ella Fitzgerald in 1940, photographed by Carl Van Vechten, who documented much of the Harlem Renaissance.Credit...Carl Van Vechten © Van Vechten Trust Walter Evans Collection of Frederick Douglass and Douglass Family Papers Half length group portrait, family group of six; father, mother, four children News NYU book launch for Alexandra Vazquez's The Florida Room feat. Fred Moten, Mary Pat Brady & others April 18, 2022 NYU’s Zoom book launch for Prof. Alexandra Vazquez’s The Florida Room. The Florida Room compresses the wide, deep, and volatile politics and poetics of the global south—its... Elijah Anderson on the burden of being Black in white spaces March 24, 2022 Since the end of the civil rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s, large numbers of Black people have made their way into settings previously occupied exclusively by whites.... Yale Filmmaker Discusses Power of Family Photos in Black History Month Film Series February 9, 2022 There was never a question for photographer and filmmaker Thomas Allen Harris that family, history, and photography were all tangled together, forming deep roots that... More news... African American Studies & the Crises of Our Time African American Studies' Support for the Scholars' Strike African American Studies' Call to Action Click here for the latest information on Yale's COVID-19 policies and procedures African American Studies Response to COVID-19 Join in Our Academic Work The Combined Ph.D. in African American Studies: Important Update Choose Our Undergraduate Program Questions? Contact the Registrar Events More events... Follow us for more news & events! New from African American Studies Elijah Anderson Elizabeth Hinton Daphne A. Brooks Hazel Carby Tavia Nyong'o Edward Rugemer More publications Engage with Our Ideas “In their place; the heavy burden of being Black in a white spac,” Elijah Anderson the guardian.com “Black , Bold and Queer: Celebrating the Legacy of Marlon Riggs,” Thomas Allen Harris Documentary “Style With Soul: How The World’s Most Iconic Black Women Singers Expressed Themselves Through Fashion,” Tavia Nyong’o Vogue “White Supermacy as Daily Pratice,” Micah Jones, Historians’ Watch “José Muñoz, Then and There: On the afterlives of the pioneering queer theorist,” Tavia Nyong’o, thebaffler.com Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved About Us | Contact Us Facebook Twitter