Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Financial Aid & Scholarships myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Calculate Costs Select to follow link Net Price Calculator ↗ Tuition and Fee Tool Understand Aid Select to follow link Scholarships Grants Work-Study Loans Apply for Aid Select to follow link File the FAFSA Accept Aid Receive Aid Maintain Aid Transfer Aid Pay Bill Select to follow link Holds Refunds Taxes Further reading Contact information Forms Consumer information Special circumstances myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Calculate costs How much does KU cost? The answer is different for each student who asks it. That’s because a thoughtful and tailored approach to affordability includes family savings and various forms of financial assistance. First-time freshmen and transfer students: Use our Net Price Calculator for a customized financial snapshot that includes potential financial aid and scholarships. Net Price Calculator Current students: Use this Tuition and Fees Tool to calculate an estimate of costs for KU's various degree programs. Calculate Costs For the most up-to-date and accurate information about tuition and fees, please refer to the Comprehensive Fee Schedule. To determine your on-campus housing and meal charges, go to KU Housing's Rates page. Cost of Attendance Your estimated Cost of Attendance (COA), also known as a budget, is a standardized estimate of what it will cost you to attend KU for the academic year. Your financial aid package cannot exceed your estimated COA. An estimated COA contains the following components: Tuition All KU resident and nonresident students pay a per-credit-hour rate. Since standard tuition rates are set annually by the Kansas Board of Regents, future standard tuition rates are unknown. Fees Required campus fees are paid by all students to support services and programs such as health, recreation, transportation, and student activities. Course fees are additional per-credit-hour charges that vary by school to support academic programs and instruction in that specific school. Additionally, programs such as engineering, law, and pharmacy include special or differential fees. Room and board KU Student Housing offers a range of options and rates, and Financial Aid & Scholarships can offer estimates of the cost of living in the Lawrence area no matter what living option a student chooses. Books, transportation, and miscellaneous expenses Materials estimates vary by school. Other expenses are given a flat estimate annually by FAS. COA adjustments Adjustment of a COA may be possible if your costs increase due to one or more of the following non-discretionary expenses: Medical/dental/disability expenses for the student Child care Technology Additional required educational expenses Additional transportation expenses Housing costs and/or food and shelter for dependents Other Adjustment allows for but does not guarantee that additional financial aid will be awarded. If your request results in increased eligibility for aid, you may receive additional assistance if funds are available and seek increased loans (except for Federal Direct loans, which are limited in amount by federal regulation). However, if reduced eligibility for financial aid results, the repayment, cancellation, or reduction of aid may be required. Budget adjustment requests are evaluated only after the original FAFSA and all supporting documents have been reviewed. Evaluation may take two to three weeks. To request a budget adjustment, log in to the FAFSA portal for KU and click the “Request” button. KU Visitor Center 1502 Iowa St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: a, b, c financialaid@ku.edu 785-864-4700 facebook twitter youtube Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.