Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Yale Young African Scholars About Leadership Team Yale Young Global Scholars Yale Africa Initiative Contact Us Admissions Eligibility Preview Application Student Profile Requirements Program Content Sample Schedule Testimonials YYAS 2022 Online FAQ YYAS 2022 Online Code of Conduct FAQ Resources Application & Test Prep Materials Colleges & Universities that Give Financial Aid and Scholarships to International Students Scholarships for Study at African Universities Asia-Pacific Universities & Colleges That Give Financial Aid to International Students Colleges & Universities in Europe that Give Financial Aid to International Students Canadian Universities that Give Financial Aid to International Students Colleges & Universities in the United States that Give Financial Aid to International Students Financial Aid Information Organizations & Programs in Africa Post-Grad/Gap Year Opportunities Useful Links & Resources Writing Competitions Alumni Current Alumni Ambassadors Alumni Blog Social Impact Project Employment News & Media Welcome The YYAS 2022 application is now closed and decisions have been released to all students who submitted an application. You can sign up here to be notified of important application information via email. Yale Young African Scholars (YYAS) is an intensive academic and enrichment program designed for African secondary school students planning to pursue tertiary education and who wish to make meaningful impact as young leaders on the continent. Participants will enhance their academic skills, receive guidance on university admissions and career path options, and join a network of young leaders from across Africa. Following the program, students will be paired with mentors who will advise them throughout the university application process. There is no tuition cost for students to participate in YYAS. YYAS 2022 will be an online program held from 20 July to 26 July 2022. Over the seven-day program, participants will utilize various online platforms, including Zoom, to engage in video seminars, lectures, and conversations. All relevant program information will be communicated directly to admitted participants. Yale Young African Scholars (YYAS) is a proud member of the HALI Access Network and continues to enjoy support from The Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale. YYAS was modeled off its sister program, Yale Young Global Scholars (YYGS), and continues to operate under its umbrella. Stay Connected Keep in Touch: Sign up for our mailing list to be notified when the YYAS 2023 application opens! Follow us! The YYAS Blog and YYAS YouTube channel feature testimonials provided by YYAS alumni. YYAS News YYAS Opens 2022 Application Yale Young African Scholars (YYAS) has officially opened its application... 2021 Yale Young African Scholars Program Kicks Off On July 21st, Yale Young African Scholars (YYAS) kicks off its ninth year... More news... Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram