Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Africana Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home News Our History Faculty Who We Are Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Rites and Reason Theatre About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Contact Us Departmental Staff Search Department of Africana Studies Date April 27, 2021 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Congratulating Dr. Watufani Poe, PhD '21 By Ellie Winter This year, Africana Studies celebrates Dr. Watufani Poe as he completes the Ph.D. program. We are proud of his work and delighted by his accomplishments. Before coming to Africana Studies as part of the 2015 Cohort, Dr. Poe received an A.M. in Africana Studies and an A.M. in History funded through the Open Graduate Fellowship at Brown. During his time in the program, he was awarded the Social Sciences Research Council (SSRC) International Dissertation Research Fellowship as well as the William J. Fulbright Student Fellowship for his 2018-2019 research in Brazil. His dissertation project, Resisting Fragmentation: The Radical Possibilties of Black LGBTQ+ Activism in Brazil and the U.S., studied Black LGBT activists’ work in urban sites across Brazil and the United States, noting that Black Queer and Trans activism presents the potential for radical and transformative change to society and social movements. He is currently serving as a postdoctoral fellow at the Amherst College Center for Humanistic Inquiry. In 2022, he will begin work as an Assistant Professor within the University of Pittsburgh's Department of Education. https://www.youtube.com/embed/1wScdc7Hg_k Resisting Fragmentation Watch Dr. Poe's public lecture, held via Zoom on Friday, April 23rd. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home News Our History Faculty Who We Are Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Rites and Reason Theatre About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Contact Us Departmental Staff This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Congratulating Dr. Watufani Poe, PhD '21 Open details for Congratulating Dr. Watufani Poe, PhD '21 Bookmark this Page