Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Africana Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home News Our History Faculty Who We Are Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Rites and Reason Theatre About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Contact Us Departmental Staff Search Department of Africana Studies Events and Programs Current Season and Projects Breadcrumb Home Rites and Reason Theatre Sub Navigation In This Section About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Events and Programs Current Season and Projects Upcoming Events Coronavirus Update During the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, Rites and Reason Theatre has worked diligently to explore the boundaries of performance in our new, digital world. Though our season looks like none we have seen before, we are grateful for the opportunity to share our programming with audience members beyond our Providence home. Explore the microsites below to view recordings of our virtual productions. We hope to see you in the BassPas as soon as it is safe! 2020-2021 Season Songs of a Caged Bird Songs of a Caged Bird, a new play by Christopher Lindsay MFA’2 tells the story of Lee Berry, a member of the Black Panther Party for Self Defense. As part of the New York 21, Berry and 20 other party members were charged with conspiracy to commit crimes across New York City and jailed. Amid the pain of incarceration, his failing health, and the erosion of hope, Berry finds a way through. RIOT! Within Africanist frameworks, art is not a thing, but a doing. Art is a verb. Art causes things to happen. During this time of pain and tumult, art provides us an outlet to process, rage, and heal. Students and artist from Las Vegas to Lagos submitted their Responses In Our Time, using spoken word, rap, performance art, and silence to affirm artmaking as an activist practice. Celebrating 50 Years of Rites and Reason The first in a slate of many, this event commemorates Rites and Reason Theatre’s 50th Anniversary as the oldest, continuously producing Black Theatre in New England, and the phenomenal contributions to its legacy made by Karen Allen Baxter, the Theatre’s Senior Managing Director. After leading Rites and Reason through an astonishing 250 events, Karen retired in December 2020. Black Lavender Experience 2021 The Black Lavender Experience is a project of the course, Black Lavender: A Study of Plays with Black LGBTQ+ Content. Established as a platform for Queer Artists of Color, it has presented the works of professional and student artists for over a decade. He Rises in Spirit and Power: Honoring the Life of Anani Dzidzienyo During Commencement/Reunion Weekend, Africana Studies presents He Rises in Spirit and Power, a memorial event honoring the late Professor Anani Dzidzienyo. The telecast assembles tributes from Gilberto Gil, Olodum, and the scores of scholars inspired by Anani's encouragement. The global network of friends touched by his kindness is immeasurable, and we are grateful to have loved him. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home News Our History Faculty Who We Are Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Rites and Reason Theatre About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Contact Us Departmental Staff This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Events and Programs Open details for Events and Programs Bookmark this Page