Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation The MacMillan Center Council on African Studies About Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Program Guide Joint Degrees & Certificates PhD. Fields of Study AFST Course Offerings Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Program in African Languages Certificate of Advanced Language Study Resources Summer Programs NERCPAL People Council Faculty Council Affiliates Language Faculty Visiting Faculty & Scholars Current Students Graduate Affiliates World Fellows Staff Alumni Fellowships News Events CAS Lecture Series Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Fall 2019 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Spring 2016 Fall 2015 Spring 2015 CAS Film Festival YAFF 2021 YAFF 2019 Program YAFF 2018 African Epistemologies for the 21st Century Africa Salon Resources Project on Religion & Society in Africa Publications Afrofiles A podcast featuring conversations and stories by students of African Studies, centering Africa and embracing the pluralism of perspectives, approaches, and projects within African Studies. Promoting Study of African Languages The Program in African Languages offers regular courses in a few major African languages including Swahili, Yoruba and Zulu, taught at Beginning, Intermediate and Advanced levels. Commitment to interdisciplinary research and study of Africa The Council fosters an academic environment where students and faculty seek novel approaches to issues in African studies through joint endeavors across institutions at Yale, regionally, nationally and internationally. main home page News Celebrating CAS Graduate Affiliates The Council on African Studies congratulates four of its graduate affiliates on accepting tenure track positions at universities across the US. The affiliates, Doyle Calhoun... Prof. Stephanie Newell Awarded the Sidonie Miskimin Clauss Prize “Stephanie Newell, Professor of English and interim chair, Council on African Studies, your students are dazzled by your ability to challenge them, intellectually and... Building an Alumni Community: Yale Africa Startup Review Continues to Grow Africa business conferences, often run by MBA students at business schools, are phenomenal networking events. In recent years, however, many have devolved into one-day resume... Eight writers awarded Yale’s Windham-Campbell Prizes Yale University announced on March 29 the eight recipients of the 2022 Windham-Campbell Prizes, marking the 10th anniversary of one of the world’s most significant... African Epistemologies for the 21st Century On March 4-5, 2022, the Council on African Studies will host a conference on African Epistemologies for the 21st Century to discuss novel conceptual frameworks in... Lively Minds: Program aims to enhance early childhood development in Ghana In 2017 and 2018, researchers evaluated a pilot program to improve early childhood development and education in two rural districts in Ghana. The results were promising,... More news... Subscribe to our mailing list Sign up here for the CAS Newsletter. Upcoming Events June 14, 2022 - 12:00pm YAAA Book Club Discussion - On Juneteenth Afrofiles A podcast by students of African Studies, centering Africa & embracing the pluralism of perspectives & projects within the field. Featured Videos African Writers in Conversation: Billy Kahora Link to full video Christianity is Now your Tribe: Political Theology in South Sudan Link to full video More Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Council on African Studies at the Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale. Facebook Twitter YouTube