Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Africana Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home News Our History Faculty Who We Are Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Rites and Reason Theatre About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Contact Us Departmental Staff Search Department of Africana Studies Rites and Reason Theatre Rites and Reason Theatre is a research and development theatre producing new creative works that analyze and articulate the experiences and expressions of the African Diaspora. Sub Navigation In This Section About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Current Season Songs of a Caged Bird RIOT! He Rises in Spirit and Power Rites and Reason Theatre Rites and Reason Theatre is a research and development theatre producing new creative works that analyze and articulate the experiences and expressions of the African Diaspora. 50 Years and Beyond Within Africana cultural traditions, art is a creative manifestation of thought and culture. As such, Rites and Reason is a space for artists, writers, and scholars to explore and engage Africana intellectual and cultural traditions together, translating them into innovative theatrical and expressive forms. Alongside the academic department, Rites and Reason provides a critical, scholarly space to explore the essential creative practices of the Diaspora, while training students and collaborators to utilize and interpret the performing arts rooted in Africana cultural traditions and expressions. Rites and Reason enjoys strong and productive partnerships with Tougaloo College, the National Black Theatre in Harlem, the Brown/Trinity MFA Program, AS220, and many other organizations in the Providence community and beyond. Current Season and Upcoming Projects Due to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, Rites and Reason has been tasked with translating its work to the digital world. Though our season will look like none we have seen before, we are hard at work finding new and meaningful ways to connect with our community. View Our Digital Programs About the Theatre Rites and Reason is one of the oldest continuously producing Black theatres in the nation. Visit Page Open details for About the Theatre About Our Founders George Houston Bass and Rhett S. Jones Visit Page Open details for About Our Founders Current Season Songs of a Caged Bird RIOT! He Rises in Spirit and Power Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home News Our History Faculty Who We Are Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Rites and Reason Theatre About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Contact Us Departmental Staff This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Rites and Reason Theatre Open details for Rites and Reason Theatre Bookmark this Page