Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Africana Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home News Our History Faculty Who We Are Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Rites and Reason Theatre About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Contact Us Departmental Staff Search Department of Africana Studies Department News Department News Recent News June 9, 2021 News from Brown Brown MFA students win prestigious Kennedy Center playwriting awards Graduate student playwrights Nkenna Akunna, Seayoung Yim and Christopher Lindsay were recognized with national awards for writing creative scripts that tackle difficult subjects such as racism, misogyny and “fatphobia.” May 13, 2021 News from Africana Studies Out of Frame: Reframing Development Studies Prof. Geri Augusto asked her seminar class—what if we rooted our development studies analysis in American settler colonialism and racial slavery, rather than in overseas empires? May 11, 2021 News from Brown With new special collections policy, John Hay Library aims to diversify the historical canon The John Hay Library’s new collection policy is intended to support new trends in scholarship on campus and to diversify the personal and community stories told in Brown’s archives and special collections. April 29, 2021 News from Africana Studies As Carnegie fellow, Françoise Hamlin to study psychological toll of civil rights activism on Black Americans A Carnegie Fellowship will provide support for Françoise Hamlin, an Africana studies and history scholar, to write a book on the risks that young people assumed on the front lines of the civil rights movement. April 27, 2021 News from Africana Studies Congratulating Dr. Watufani Poe, PhD '21 This year, Africana Studies celebrates Dr. Watufani Poe as he completes the Ph.D. program. We are proud of his work and delighted by his accomplishments. April 21, 2021 News from Africana Studies Africana Studies Responds to Devastating Fires at University of Cape Town Africana Studies extends our deepest regrets to the University of Cape Town after the devastating fires on their campus. We have enjoyed long and close ties through the Trilateral Reconnection Project, and remember fondly the wellspring of resources there. April 20, 2021 News from Africana Studies Late Professor Dzidzienyo Honored at Baccalaureate 2021 December 10, 2020 News from Africana Studies On its 50th anniversary, Rites and Reason Theatre says goodbye to its ‘beating heart’ A virtual fete on Tuesday, Dec. 15, will pay tribute to Karen Allen Baxter, who has served as senior managing director of Brown’s Rites and Reason Theatre since 1988. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home News Our History Faculty Who We Are Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Rites and Reason Theatre About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Contact Us Departmental Staff This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Department News Open details for Department News Bookmark this Page