Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Africana Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home News Our History Faculty Who We Are Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Rites and Reason Theatre About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Contact Us Departmental Staff Search Department of Africana Studies Academics Africana Studies is the study of the history, political, sociological, philosophical, theoretical, religious, and expressive cultures of Africa and the African Diaspora. Africana Studies draws from the humanities and the social sciences and demands both the utilization of conventional knowledge and the use of new methods and forms of knowing. This approach raises new and profound questions about human life. Sub Navigation In This Section Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Helpful Links Department Courses Academic Calendar Academics Africana Studies is the study of the history, political, sociological, philosophical, theoretical, religious, and expressive cultures of Africa and the African Diaspora. Africana Studies draws from the humanities and the social sciences and demands both the utilization of conventional knowledge and the use of new methods and forms of knowing. This approach raises new and profound questions about human life. Our Approach Like all forms of interdisciplinary study, Africana Studies draws from the humanities and the social sciences, but we also explore the sciences. It demands both the utilization of conventional knowledge and the use of new methods and forms of knowing. This approach raises new and profound questions about human life and is the very stuff of scholarship. The Department enjoys particular notoriety for the theoretically astute and interdisciplinary character of its education. Five Fields of Focus At both the graduate and undergraduate levels, the Department holds to five fields of focus: Africana Theory and Philosophy Gender and Sexuality Social Movements, Race, and Racism Expressive Culture and Popular Music Performance and Performance Studies Undergraduate Concentration Africana Studies presents a broad range of courses that engage with the histories, ideas, social and political life of Africa and the African Diaspora, including literature, the arts, cultural studies, history, politics, philosophy, feminism, and the legacy of scientific racism. Visit Page Open details for Undergraduate Concentration Graduate Program The graduate program trains students to become skilled and informed scholars poised to make significant contributions to academic and nonacademic communities. Visit Page Open details for Graduate Program Helpful Links Department Courses Academic Calendar Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home News Our History Faculty Who We Are Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Rites and Reason Theatre About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Contact Us Departmental Staff This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Academics Open details for Academics Bookmark this Page