Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Africana Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home News Our History Faculty Who We Are Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Rites and Reason Theatre About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Contact Us Departmental Staff Search Department of Africana Studies Undergraduate Concentration Africana Studies presents a broad range of courses that engage with the histories, ideas, social and political life of Africa and the African Diaspora, including literature, the arts, cultural studies, history, politics, philosophy, feminism, and the legacy of scientific racism. Breadcrumb Home Academics Sub Navigation In This Section Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Commencement 2021 Honors Program Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Concentration Africana Studies presents a broad range of courses that engage with the histories, ideas, social and political life of Africa and the African Diaspora, including literature, the arts, cultural studies, history, politics, philosophy, feminism, and the legacy of scientific racism. Four Main Objectives To understand the evolution of artistic, cultural, intellectual, and political traditions of Africa and the Diaspora. To gain a deeper understanding of how and in what ways slavery, colonialism, and conceptions of race have shaped the modern world. To acquire competency in the theories, epistemologies, and methodologies of the Africana Studies discipline and broader interdisciplinary scholarship. To prepare students to assume roles as skilled and informed citizens, scholars, and career professionals informed by critical thinking and global perspectives. Requirements Concentrators are expected to complete nine semester-long courses offered within or cross-listed with the Department. Six of the nine must be taught by Africana Studies core faculty (and have AFRI-prefixes). Up to two can be cross-listed. In some cases, Concentrators may petition the Director of Undergraduate Studies for the acceptance of other appropriate courses. Courses required as part of the six core-faculty courses: AFRI 0090: An Introduction to Africana Studies AFRI 1330: Junior Seminar AFRI 1360: Knowledge, Texts, and Methodology (Spring Senior Seminar) The information and critical thinking skills I learned in classes in the Department of Africana Studies were so formative to my development. I use that training every day at work as a journalist. Randi Richardson '20 Tweet this quote Supplemental Coursework As a supplement to this coursework, the Department strongly encourages study in Africa, the Caribbean, or Latin America during the student’s junior year. The Department also encourages the acquisition of languages spoken in Africa and throughout the Diaspora. Concentrators who study abroad or acquire certified language competency in some other fashion are welcome to petition the Department for credit, pending assessment. Have questions? Renee Ater Provost Visiting Associate Professor, Africana Studies renee_ater@brown.edu Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Cyprene Caines DUG Leader cyprene_caines@brown.edu Kimberly Collins DUG Leader kimberly_collins@brown.edu Resources for Students How to Declare a Concentration Honors Thesis Proposal Form What Can I Do With an Africana Studies Degree? Information on Double Concentrations Honors Program Concentrators with outstanding academic records, those that demonstrate excellent research and writing skills from course selections to grades, may be admitted to the Department’s Honors Program. Visit Page Open details for Honors Program Undergraduate Courses This array of topics serves our concentrators (and others who take our classes) as they build an intellectual foundation of critical thinking and analysis that supports them in their academic, professional, and personal lives. Visit Page Open details for Undergraduate Courses Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home News Our History Faculty Who We Are Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Rites and Reason Theatre About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Contact Us Departmental Staff This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Undergraduate Concentration Open details for Undergraduate Concentration Bookmark this Page