Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Africana Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home News Our History Faculty Who We Are Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Rites and Reason Theatre About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Contact Us Departmental Staff Search Department of Africana Studies About the Theatre Rites and Reason is one of the oldest continuously producing Black theatres in the nation. Breadcrumb Home Rites and Reason Theatre Sub Navigation In This Section About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs About the Theatre Rites and Reason is one of the oldest continuously producing Black theatres in the nation. Rites and Reason Theatre’s mission is to develop new creative works which analyze and articulate the phenomenal and universal odyssey of the African Diaspora. Through this commitment, Rites and Reason develops creative works that explore the experiences and expressions of peoples and cultures from across the world. Rites and Reason Theatre: Art as Knowledge Rites and Reason Theatre was established in 1970 by the late Professor George Houston Bass—personal secretary to Langston Hughes and executor of his literary estate—Brown students, and Rhode Island community members as a direct result of the Black Arts Movement and the Black Student Walkout at Brown University in December 1968. Professor Bass worked with Professor Rhett S. Jones, Rites and Reason's Research Director, to create a space to express the cultural, social, and ideological concerns of the African Diaspora. Together with Producer and Managing Director Karen Allen Baxter, the group codified new methods for play development. Developing New Creative Works Today, as one of the oldest continuously producing Black theatres in the nation, Rites and Reason Theatre furthers its mission of developing new creative works through its unique Research-to-Performance Method under the leadership of its current Artistic Director, Professor Elmo Terry-Morgan, ’74. The Research-to-Performance Method (RPM) is a systematic process that organizes teams of artists, scholars and researchers in the scholarly and creative development of new theatrical performances. These RPM teams engage in direct dialogue with the community throughout the developmental process from ideas to readings to workshops to mainstage productions that prioritize the creation of new knowledge through collaborative creativity. https://www.youtube.com/embed/Pq7s6gBXaLU 50 Years of Rites and Reason Artistic Director Elmo Terry-Morgan '74 and Senior Managing Director Karen Allen Baxter talk Rites and Reason History in an Archival Project clip. About Our Founders George Houston Bass and Rhett S. Jones Visit Page Open details for About Our Founders Events and Programs Current Season and Projects Visit Page Open details for Events and Programs Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home News Our History Faculty Who We Are Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Concentration Rites and Reason Theatre About the Theatre About Our Founders Events and Programs Contact Us Departmental Staff This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About the Theatre Open details for About the Theatre Bookmark this Page