Skip to main content Left arrow Barnard.edu Open Search Close Search for: Search All of Barnard.edu Our Department Back Contact Us Events Faculty News Curriculum & Courses Harlem Semester Lewis-Ezekoye Ntozake Shange '70 Quandra Prettyman Prize Student Resources Left arrow Barnard.edu Curriculum & Courses On This Page On This Page Curriculum & Courses Before Black Lives Matters Caribbean Culture & Societies Poor in America Course Major Requirements Minor Requirements Courses Recommended for First-Years All Course Listings Academic Year 2022-2023 Fall 2022 Courses SUB-TERM COURSE INSTRUCTOR Fall Semester AFRS BC3516, Environmental Humanities in Global South Yvette Christianse Fall Semester AFRS BC3519, Race Before Race: Premodern Constructions of Social Difference Kim Hall Fall Semester AFRS BC3567 Blackness in French Kaiama Glover Fall Semester AFRS BC3585 Poor in America: The Experience & Impact of Financial Deprivation Rose Razaghian Fall Semester AFRS BC3998, Senior Seminar Yvette Christianse Fall Semester AFRS BC4001, Afro-Latin America in the Artistic Imagination Tamara Walker Before Black Lives Matters Course Image Caribbean Culture & Societies Image Poor in America Course Image The Department of Africana Studies offers a major and a minor: Major The Africana Studies major requires ten courses, to be distributed as follows: I. Introductory Courses: Each student will take 2 (of the 3) introductory Africana Studies courses. We strongly suggest students take Introduction to African Studies (AFRS 2004) AND either Caribbean Cultures and Societies (AFRS 2005) OR Introduction to the African Diaspora (AFRS 2006) AFRS BC 2004x Introduction to African Studies: An interdisciplinary and thematic approach to the study of Africa, moving from pre-colonial through colonial and post-colonial periods to contemporary Africa. Focus will be on its history, societal relations, politics and the arts. The objective is to provide a critical survey of the history as well as the continuing debates in African studies. - 3 points. AFRS BC2005 Caribbean Culture and Societies. Multidisciplinary exploration of the Anglophone, Hispanic, and Francophone Caribbean. Discusses theories about the development and character of Caribbean societies; profiles representative islands; and explores enduring and contemporary issues in Caribbean Studies (race, color and class; politics and governance; political economy; the struggles for liberation; cultural identity and migration.) BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Cultures in Comparison (CUL). - 3 points. AFRS BC 2006y Introduction to the African Diaspora: An interdisciplinary and thematic approach to the African diaspora in the Americas: its motivations, dimensions, consequences, and the importance and stakes of its study. Beginning with the contacts between Africans and the Portuguese in the 15th century, this class will open up diverse paths of inquiry as students attempt to answer questions, clear up misconceptions, and challenge assumptions about the presence of Africans in the New World. - 3 points. II. Language: The college distributional requirement for languages (i.e., Foundations) stipulates that each student must complete two (2) courses in a single language. For Africana majors the language studied must be of Africa or its diasporas (including Arabic, Dutch, English, French, Hausa, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, Swahili). III. Harlem: Each student will take a course on Harlem, chosen in consultation with her advisor, from among the offerings at Barnard or Columbia. IV. Electives: Each student will, with the approval of her advisor, select five electives. Of these five, one must be on Africa and one must concern issues of gender. V. One Semester Colloquium in Africana Studies AFRS BC3110 (Section 1) - Africana Colloquium: Critical Race Theory or AFRS BC3110 (Section 2) - Africana Colloquium: Diasporas of the Indian Ocean VI. Senior Seminar: Students will complete a one-semester program of interdisciplinary research in preparation of a senior essay. Minor Although the college requires students to declare the minor formally after they have completed course work for the minor, the Africana Studies Program strongly encourages students to meet with the Africana Studies Chair (or the minor advisor) to plan a course of study and fill out an "intent to minor" form. The Africana minor consists of five courses to be distributed as follows: Choose any two from the introduction courses. 1. AFRS BC 2004x Introduction to African Studies 2. AFRS BC 2005 Caribbean Culture and Societies 3. AFRS BC 2006y Introduction to the African Diaspora 4. One course on Harlem to be chosen from electives offered at Barnard/Columbia 4-5. Two electives chosen by the students in consultation with the Director/minor advisor. Courses Recommended for First-Years AFRS BC2004 Introduction to African Studies AFRS BC2005 Caribbean Culture and Societies AFRS BC2006 Introduction to the African Diaspora CCIS BC1111 Real Talk/Real Time. 1 point. This course takes as its foundation the words of bell hooks: “When our lived experience of theorizing is fundamentally linked to processes of self-recovery, of collective liberation, no gap exists between theory and practice.” Over the course of this term, students will learn to embrace their responsibility as intellectuals in the largest sense. By recognizing current issues as sites of intersectional analysis, they will learn to merge their scholarly activities with public discussion and organizational activism. Working collaboratively, they will research topics of current import and, on that basis, organize two speaker events, thereby learning how public intellectual organizing engages both theory and practice. Spring 2020: CCIS BC1111 Course NumberSection/Call NumberTimes/LocationInstructorPointsEnrollment CCIS 1111001/00807F 12:00pm - 1:55pm Room TBAYvette Christianse11/10 AFRS BC2004 Introduction to African Studies. 3 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Historical Studies (HIS)., BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Cultures in Comparison (CUL). Interdisciplinary and thematic approach to the study of Africa, moving from pre-colonial through colonial and post-colonial periods to contemporary Africa. Focus will be on its history, societal relations, politics and the arts. The objective is to provide a critical survey of the history as well as the continuing debates in African Studies. Fall 2020: AFRS BC2004 Course NumberSection/Call NumberTimes/LocationInstructorPointsEnrollment AFRS 2004001/00541M W 11:40am - 12:55pm Room TBAAbosede George312 AFRS BC2005 Caribbean Culture and Societies. 3 points. Multidisciplinary exploration of the Anglophone, Hispanic, and Francophone Caribbean. Discusses theories about the development and character of Caribbean societies; profiles representative islands; and explores enduring and contemporary issues in Caribbean Studies (race, color and class; politics and governance; political economy; the struggles for liberation; cultural identity and migration.) BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Cultures in Comparison (CUL). AFRS BC2006 Introduction to the African Diaspora. 3 points. Interdisciplinary and thematic approach to the African diaspora in the Americas: its motivations, dimensions, consequences, and the importance and stakes of its study. Beginning with the contacts between Africans and the Portuguese in the 15th century, this class will open up diverse paths of inquiry as students attempt to answer questions, clear up misconceptions, and challenge assumptions about the presence of Africans in the 'New World.' AFRS BC2010 Colonialism in Africa. 3 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. This course will prepare students to examine diplomatic interactions involving African and European polities during the eighteenth and nineteenth century and the role that military force played in helping European nations secure access to territory and control of resources on the African continent. Students will also examine the vast array of forensic evidence (the broad range of ritual compacts and treaties, the forms of proof and the legal debates) that European merchants and political representatives used to secure entitlements to land and resources. AFRS BC2510 Food, Ethnicity & Globalization. 3 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Ethics and Values. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: None Corequisites: None When people produce, consume or refuse food, choices that often seem "natural," unthinking and highly personal are in fact daily acts of identity and belonging that place individuals in the global circulation of goods, people and resources. This course examines representations of food and foodways as a way of understanding the politics of representation and the complex interplay of race, ethnicity and gender. The course's units on Ethnicity, Migration and Identity; Food & Globalization; Food and Power; and the Politics of Pork, will allow students to understand foodways as key expressions or embodiments of cultural affiliations and food choices as linked to questions of morality and values. AFRS BC3001 Politics of Gender in Contemporary South Africa. 1.5 point. This course will only take place from September 23rd through October 9th. This module is designed to offer mid-senior level students with an interest in African Studies an intensive engagement with the politics of gender and sexualities in specific African contexts of the c21. Although the module will include discussion of aspects of the sexual and gendered operations of colonial praxis, the concentration will be on the ways in which post-flag democracy cultures have taken up the question of gender and sexualities. We will explore debates on the representation and realities of lesbian and transgendered experiences, the meaning of race-based identity-politics within “new” democracies, the narratives of “the body” as they emerge through medical and religious discourses on “women,” and discourses of “e-masculinization” and militarism. Note that this course will only run from September 16th through September 30th. AFEN BC3009 Toni Morrison: An Ethical Poetics. 4 points. Toni Morrison set herself a challenge: to engage language in complex literary ways in order to reveal the ‘fact’ of race in the lived experiences of Americans—those made to bear the burden of being ‘raced,’ those exercising the prerogative of ‘racing,’ and those who imagine that none of this applies to them. We travel with her artistic path from The Bluest Eye to her later novels to learn how her choice to create figurative, logical narratives seek their own understanding of the ethics of what she called the “manageable, doable, modern human activity” of living in ‘the house of race.’ Spring 2020: AFEN BC3009 Course NumberSection/Call NumberTimes/LocationInstructorPointsEnrollment AFEN 3009001/00744T 2:10pm - 4:00pm Ll016 Milstein CenterYvette Christianse427 AFRS BC3020 Harlem Crossroads. 3 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Studies Harlem in the context of African-American and African diaspora culture and society as well as American urbanization. Primarily focusing on Harlem of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, the course offers students opportunities to discuss political economy, immigration, migration and the role of the city in social life. AFRS BC3055 Slave Resistance in the United States from the Colonial Era to the Civil War. 3 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Analyzes the multifaceted nature of slave resistance, its portrayal and theorization by scholars. Critically examines the various pathways of resistance of enslaved Africans and African-Americans, both individually and collectively (e.g., running away, non-cooperation, theft, arson, as well as verbal and physical confrontation, revolts and insurrections). Considers how gender shaped acts of resistance. AFRS BC3065 Writing Diasporic Cities. 4 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Ethics and Values. This course considers representation of four cities in which diasporic communities have settled and negotiated the psychic and material terrain that stretches from a past homeland to a settled homeland. We look at New York, London, Kinshasha, and Cape Town where communities of different African diasporas- historical and contemporary- as well as South Asian diasporas have settled. Locally, we enter a space like the contemporary Malcolm Shabazz market to attend to the transnational, mercantilist as well as cultural public spheres that it creates. We also look at earlier transmigrations by African Diasporic groups moving from Jamaica to Harlem to Marseilles. We consider London in the 1980s and the early 2000s. Thematically, we consider different kinds of displacement and their impact upon women. We foreground race, ethnicity, nationalist discourses, global economies, and the publishing, distribution and marketing networks of the Arts produced in these cities. We read across genres and consider graffiti in neighborhoods that have diasporic communities. AFRS BC3100 Medicine and Power in African History. 4 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Examines medical discourse and practice in Africa, emphasizing relationships between power and medical knowledge. Topics include: medicine and empire, tropical medicine, colonial public health and social control, labor, reproductive health, and HIV/AIDS. AFRS BC3110 The Africana Colloquium: Caribbean Women. 4 points. Prerequisites: Students must attend first day of class and admission will be decided then. Enrollment limited to 18 students. Priority will be given to Africana majors and CCIS students (Africana Studies, American Studies and Women's Studies majors; minors in Race and Ethnic Studies). AFRS BC3120 History of African-American Music. 3 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Survey interrogates the cultural and aesthetic development of a variety of interconnected musical genres - such as blues, jazz, gospel, soul, funk, R&B, hip-hop, classical and their ever changing same/names - viewed as complex human activities daringly danced at dangerous discourses inside and outside the American cultural mainstreams. AFRS BC3121 Black Women in America. 4 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Historical Studies (HIS). Prerequisites: Students must attend first day of class and admission will be decided then. Priority will be given to CCIS students (Africana Studies, American Studies and Women's Studies majors; minors in Race and Ethnic Studies). Enrollment limited to 20 students. Examines the roles of black women in the U.S. as thinkers, activists and creators during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Focusing on the intellectual work, social activism and cultural expression of African American women, we examine how they understood their lives, resisted oppression and struggled to change society. We will also discuss theoretical frameworks (such as "double jeopardy," or "intersectionality") developed for the study of black women. The seminar will encourage students to pay particular attention to the diversity of black women and critical issues facing Black women today. This course is the same as WMST BC3121. AFRS BC3134 Unheard Voices: African Women's Literature. 4 points. How does one talk of women in Africa without thinking of Africa as a 'mythic unity'? We will consider the political, racial, social and other contexts in which African women write and are written about in the context of their located lives in Africa and in the African Diaspora. AFRS BC3146 African American and African Writing and the Screen. 4 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Focuses on the context and history of representations of African Americans and Africans in early American and other cinematographies; the simultaneous development of early film and the New Negro, Negritude and Pan African movements; and pioneer African American and African cinema. AFRS BC3148 Literature of the Great Migration. 3 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. (Also ENGL BC 3148) Examination of fiction, poetry, essays and films about the Great Migration (1910-1950) of African-Americans from the rural South to the urban North, focusing on literary production in New York and Chicago. (This course satisfies the Harlem Requirement for the Africana Studies major). AFRS BC3150 Race and Performance In The Caribbean. 4 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor. Sophomore Standing. Enrollment limited to 18 students. Analysis of the shifting place and perception of Afro-Caribbean performance in Caribbean societies. This course takes a cross-cultural approach that examines performance through the lens of ethnography, anthropology, music and literary criticism. AFRS BC3517 African American Women and Music. 3 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: None Corequisites: None Examines the music making practices of African-American women in blues, gospel, jazz, and rock at different periods in the 20th century. Considers the content and context of these musical productions as well as artist biographies in order to understand the significance of music for these producers and their audiences. AFEN BC3525 Atlantic Crossings: The West Indies and the Atlantic World. 4 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: Enrollment limited to 20 students. This course examines the literature of transatlantic travel from Columbus's first voyage in 1492 to Caryl Phillips’s re-tracing of his mother's migration in The Atlantic Sound (2000) to recent re-imaginings of slavery and the Middle Passage by M. Nourbese Philip and Marlon James. Even before Columbus's first encounter, the "Indies" sparked English desires for riches and adventure. We will first investigate how English writers promoted an idea of the West Indies and then came to inhabit its heterogeneous spaces, filling them with longing and anxiety. The class will chart the emergence of modern race thinking from the rich interaction of peoples and goods in the early modern Caribbean. We will also question how ideals of freedom and "English-ness" co-existed with slavery, bondage and creole life. The class will then look at the ways later writers revisit the Caribbean's colonial origins and discuss how notions of the West Indies may haunt modern Atlantic travel. AFRS BC3528 Harlem on My Mind: The Political Economy of Harlem. 4 points. Drawing on social histories, primary sources, fiction, and popular culture this course will explore the postwar history of Harlem. We will place Harlem in the broader context of New York City and explore how domestic and transnational migration patterns have shaped its history. Specific topics include: urbanization, migration and settlement patterns; racial liberalism and political incorporation; critical engagement with East Harlem as research cite for "culture of poverty" theorists; state criminalization of youth; underground, illegal and illicit economy from the 1960s to the 1990s; struggles over property and gentrification; and perhaps most importantly, exploring Harlem as cultural and political center of the Black World throughout the twentieth century. AFRS BC3550 Harlem Seminar: Gay Harlem. 4 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Social Analysis (SOC I)., BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Social Analysis (SOC II). Prerequisites: This course is limited to 20 students and by permission only. This course explores Harlem's role in the production of sexual modernity and in particular as a space of queer encounter. While much of our investigation will be devoted to the intersection of race and sexuality in African American life, we also consider Harlem's history as a communal space for Italian, Puerto Rican, and more recent immigrants. Students will be encouraged to distinguish and connect contemporary sites of sexual culture in Harlem to the historical articulations of race and sexuality examined in the course. AFRS BC3556 Ethnography of Black America. 4 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. This course critically examines ethnographic texts about Blacks in the United States, focusing as much on what they proffer about Black American culture as on the various socio-political contexts in which this body of scholarship has been produced. The goal is to advance an understanding of the larger social forces undergirding the production not only of formations of Black culture, but also of knowledge about Black America. A further goal is to foster a critical understanding of the anthropological enterprise itself. AFRS BC3560 Human Rights and Social Change in Sub-Saharan Africa. 4 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Reason and Value (REA)., BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Ethics and Values. Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor. Examines the evolution of the ideas, institutions and practices associated with social justice in Africa and their relationship to contemporary international human rights movement and focuses on the role of human rights in social change. A number of themes will re-occur throughout the course, notably tensions between norms and reality, cultural diversity, economic and political asymmetries, the role of external actors, and women as rights providers. Countries of special interest include Liberia, Senegal, South African and Tanzania. AFRS BC3563 Translating Hispaniola. 4 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Cultures in Comparison (CUL). Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Students will look at the extent to which the nation-language border separating Haiti and the Dominican Republic represents the legacy of a colonial history whose influence in many ways undermines regional community in the Caribbean to the present day. Beginning with Christopher Columbus’ fraught “discovery” of Hispaniola and ending with the 2010 earthquake and its aftermath, the course explores social, political, and cultural phenomena common to both nations – among which, slavery and freedom, Euro-North American imperialist intervention, and diaspora and migration – as these issues manifest in primary and secondary works of creative fiction, history, anthropology, and political theory. From oral histories to newspaper articles to short fiction by Junot Diaz and Edwidge Danticat, this course traces the history of a divided Caribbean family. Students will engage with recently created digital humanities resources concerning Haiti and the Dominican Republic and also develop interactive, web-based tools that allow for a more nuanced and expansive understanding of Hispaniola’s transnational past, present, and futures. Please note that there is no language requirement for this course. AFRS BC3570 Africana Issues: Diasporas of the Indian Ocean. 4 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. The Indian Ocean has been called the cradle of globalization, a claim bolstered by seasonal monsoon winds and the trade that these enabled. We will consider the aesthetic histories of such trade by engaging literary and other cultural exchanges (including film, visual arts, music, and dance). What did the Zulu prophet Isaiah Shembe learn from Gujarati poets? Other than a major slaving center and source of spices, what role did Zanzibar play in the development of music and literary forms that look to Oman as well as the East Coast of Africa? We focus on four sites: Durban (South Africa), Bombay (India), Zanzibar (Tanzania) and Port Louis (Mauritius). This course will be taught simultaneously between Barnard in New York and the University of Witwatersrand in Johannesburg, South Africa. Students from both campuses will be encouraged to interact electronically and to establish a blog and website. The course will also have live-streamed guest speakers from chosen sites around the Indian Ocean. AFRS BC3589 Black Feminism(s)/Womanism(s). 4 points. Black Feminism(s)/Womanism(s) AFRS BC3590 The Middle Passage. 4 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: Admission to this seminar is by application only. Applications will be made available on the Africana Studies website: www.barnard.edu/africana In addition to learning about the history of the Middle Passage, students will examine literary and political responses to this forced immigration out of Africa. Identifying responses to slave holding pasts, the seminar culminates in a visit to an historic site of importance in the Middle Passage. AFRS BC3998 Senior Seminar. 4 points. A program of interdisciplinary research leading to the writing of the senior essay. All Africana majors must complete the one-semester Africana Studies Senior Seminar in the fall and submit a senior essay as one of the requirements for this course. A student who has successfully completed the Africana Studies Senior Seminar, has demonstrated the ability to complete a senior thesis, and has obtained approval from the faculty member teaching the Senior Seminar may take an Independent Study with a Barnard or Columbia faculty member or a second thesis seminar in another department in order to complete a senior thesis in Africana Studies in the spring semester. Fall 2020: AFRS BC3998 Course NumberSection/Call NumberTimes/LocationInstructorPointsEnrollment AFRS 3998001/00584M 2:10pm - 4:00pm Room TBAColin Leach44/15 AFEN BC3815 The Worlds of Ntozake Shange and Digital Storytelling. 4 points. Prerequisites: Enrollment limited to 12 students. Permission of the instructor required. Interested students should complete the application at http://bit.ly/Ntozake2019. Students should have taken a course beyond the intro level from ONE of the following areas: American Literature (through the English Department), Africana Studies, American Studies, Theatre or Women's Studies. Students who successfully complete into this course will be eligible to take the second half of the course in Spring 2019. NOTE: There will be three extra sessions scheduled in the Digital Humanities Center. A poet, performance artist, playwright and novelist, Ntozake Shange's stylistic innovations in drama, poetry and fiction and attention to the untold lives of black women have made her an influential figure throughout American arts and in Feminist history. This semester will examine Shange's works in the context of political and artistic organizing by women of color in the 1970s and 80s. In addition to our analysis of primary texts, students will be introduced to archival research in Ntozake Shange’s personal archive at Barnard College. This in-depth exploration of Shange's work and milieu is complemented with an introduction to digital tools, public research and archival practice. You can find more information and apply for the course at http://bit.ly/Ntozake2019. On Twitter @ShangeWorlds. AFEN BC3816 The Worlds of Ntozake Shange and Digital Storytelling. 4 points. Prerequisites: AFEN BC3815 or equivalent. This course has a prerequisite and an application: http://bit.ly/AFEN3816. This hands-on, project based course introduces students to the use of digital tools and sources to organize and manage their archival research, creatively interpret their findings, and communicate their results to the public. This semester, the course is somewhat different from the usual research course in that, rather than simply going more deeply into the course focus, you will be asked to apply your knowledge to make new things. Working with the Barnard Digital Humanities Center, you will develop projects that teach some aspect of Shange's work and or feminist movements. But while making these new things, we will have ongoing discussions about the nature of digital life and evolving protocols for digital work. You will make plans to visit the archive appropriate to your project (in most cases this will be the Barnard Archives, but they might include sites such as The Billy Rose Theatre Division at the NYPL, or the Amiri Baraka collection at Columbia University) as well as doing background reading for your project. By the end of the semester, you'll have sharpened your research skills while also acquiring digital, teamwork, and project management skills that will be useful in other classes and beyond. Cross-Listed Courses American Studies AMST UN3930 Topics in American Studies. 4 points. Please refer to the Center for American Studies for the course descriptions for each section. Fall 2020: AMST UN3930 Course NumberSection/Call NumberTimes/LocationInstructorPointsEnrollment AMST 3930001/13726M 2:10pm - 4:00pm Room TBARoosevelt Montas414/18 AMST 3930003/13727T 2:10pm - 4:00pm Room TBARebecca Kobrin411/18 AMST 3930004/13728M 6:10pm - 8:00pm Room TBABenjamin Rosenberg40/18 AMST 3930005/13994T 10:10am - 12:00pm Room TBAJames Shapiro414/18 AMST 3930006/14059W 2:10pm - 4:00pm Room TBARoosevelt Montas42/18 AMST 3930007/13979W 12:10pm - 2:00pm Room TBACaroline Miller40/18 AMST 3930008/13731Th 4:10pm - 6:00pm Room TBARobert Pollack, Craig Blinderman, Skylar Fetter46/18 AMST 3930009/14049M 4:10pm - 6:00pm Room TBARichard John424/18 AMST 3930010/15316W 10:10am - 12:00pm Room TBAHilary-Anne Hallett40/18 AMST 3930OO2/13976M 12:10pm - 2:00pm Room TBAMark Lilla40/18 Anthropology (Barnard) ANTH UN1002 The Interpretation of Culture. 3 points. The anthropological approach to the study of culture and human society. Case studies from ethnography are used in exploring the universality of cultural categories (social organization, economy, law, belief system, art, etc.) and the range of variation among human societies. Spring 2020: ANTH UN1002 Course NumberSection/Call NumberTimes/LocationInstructorPointsEnrollment ANTH 1002001/11181M W 1:10pm - 2:25pm 833 Seeley W. Mudd BuildingPaige West385/120 ANTH 1002002/12201T Th 11:40am - 12:55pm 428 Pupin LaboratoriesVanessa Agard-Jones361/100 Fall 2020: ANTH UN1002 Course NumberSection/Call NumberTimes/LocationInstructorPointsEnrollment ANTH 1002001/00423M W 2:40pm - 3:55pm Room TBAPaige West369/90 ANTH V3160 The Body and Society. 3 points. Enrollment limited to 40; not open to first-years.Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: Non-anthropology majors require the instructor's permission. Introduction to medical anthropology, exploring health, affliction, and healing cross-culturally. Draws from theory and methods to address critiques of biomedical, epidemiological, and other models of disease; the roles of healers in different societies; the inseparable nature of religion and healing; and different conceptions of the body and how this affects cultural conceptions of health. ANTH V3660 Gender, Culture, and Human Rights. 3 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Cultures in Comparison (CUL). Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. ANTH V3943 Youth and Identity Politics in Africa. 4 points. Enrollment limited to 15.Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor is required. Examines ways in which African youth inevitably occupy two extremes in academic writings and the mass media: as victims of violence, or as instigators of social chaos. Considers youth as generating new cultural forms, as historically relevant actors, and informed social and/or political critics. At the core of such critiques lie possibilities for the agentive power of youth in Africa. ANTH V3983 Ideas and Society in the Caribbean. 4 points. Enrollment limited to 20.Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Focusing on the Anglo-Creole Caribbean, this course examines some aspects of popular culture, literary expression, political change, and intellectual movements over the past thirty years. MDES W2030 Major Debates in the Study of Africa. 4 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Cultures in Comparison (CUL)., CC/GS/SEAS: Partial Fulfillment of Global Core Requirement, Recitation Section Required This course will focus on key debates that have shaped the study of Africa in the post-colonial African academy. We will cover seven key debates: (1) Historiography; (2) Slavery and slave trades; (3) State Formation; (4) Colonialism; (5) Underdevelopment; (6) Nationalism and the anti-colonial struggle; (7) Political Identity and political violence in the post-colony. Partial Fulfillment of Global Core Requirement. Comparative Literature (Barnard) CLRS W4190 Race, Ethnicity, and Narrative, in the Russian/Soviet Empire. 3 points. CC/GS/SEAS: Partial Fulfillment of Global Core Requirement Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. This course examines the literary construction of ethnic and cultural identity in texts drawn from the literatures of ethnic minorities and non-Slavic nationalities that coexist within the Russian and Soviet imperial space, with attention to the historical and political context in which literary discourses surrounding racial, ethnic, and cultural particularity develop. Organized around three major regions -- the Caucasus, Central Asia, and the Russian Far East --readings include canonical "classics" by Aitmatov, Iskander, and Rytkheu as well as less-known texts, both "official" and censored. Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race CSER W1012 History of Racialization in the United States. 3 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Cultures in Comparison (CUL). Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. The History of Racialization in the United States examines the development of race and racism through the study of significant historical circumstances that define the institutional structure of American Empire and of the resulting interactions among its peoples. Race is not static. Consequently, it is not an ahistorical object, nor a predetermined identity, nor a uniform category of analysis. Traditionally, the history of American race relations is the contact between racially defined groups over time and space of the effort required to maintain social and economic differences among them. Racialization, then, refers to the process by which one population group or many are "placed" in distinct racial categories. Dance (Barnard) DNCE BC2580 Tap as an American Art Form. 3 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: The Visual and Performing Arts (ART). Prerequisites: DNCE BC1446 or equivalent experience. Studio/lecture format focuses on tap technique, repertory, improvisation, and the development of tap explored through American history, jazz music, films, videos, and biographies. Spring 2020: DNCE BC2580 Course NumberSection/Call NumberTimes/LocationInstructorPointsEnrollment DNCE 2580001/00575M W 4:10pm - 5:25pm 110 Barnard HallMargaret Morrison35/30 DNCE BC3570 Latin American and Caribbean Dance: Identities in Motion. 3 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: The Visual and Performing Arts (ART). Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Examines the history and choreographic features of Latin American and Caribbean dance forms. Dances are analyzed in order to uncover the ways in which dancing shapes national, racial, and gender identities. Focuses on the globalization of these dances in New York City. DNCE BC3578 Traditions of African-American Dance. 3 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Historical Studies (HIS)., BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: The Visual and Performing Arts (ART). Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Traces the development of African-American dance, emphasizing the contribution of black artists and the influence of black traditions on American theatrical dance. Major themes include the emergence of African-American concert dance, the transfer of vernacular forms to the concert stage, and issues of appropriation, cultural self-identification, and artistic hybridity. DNCE BC3980 Performing the Political: Embodying Change in American Performance. 4 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: An introductory course in dance or theatre history or permission of instructor. Enrollment limited to 12 students. Exploration into the politics of performance and the performance of politics through the lens of 20th-century American dance. Economics ECON W4438 Economics of Race in the U.S.. 3 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: ECON W3211 and ECON W3213. ECON W4400 is strongly recommended. What differences does race make in the U.S. economy? Why does it make these differences? Are these differences things we should be concerned about? If so, what should be done? The course examines labor markets, housing markets, capital markets, crime, education, and the links among these markets. Both empirical and theoretical contributions are studied. English & Comparative Literature English (Barnard) ENGL BC3129 Explorations of Black Literature: Early African-American Lit. 1760-1890. 3 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: Enrollment limited to 18 students. Poetry, prose, fiction, and nonfiction, with special attention to the slave narrative. Includes Wheatley, Douglass, and Jacobs, but emphasis will be on less familiar writers such as Brown, Harper, Walker, Wilson, and Forten. Works by some 18th-century precursors will also be considered. ENTH BC3144 Black Theatre. 4 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: Enrollment limited to 16 students. Exploration of Black Theater, specifically African-American performance traditions, as an intervening agent in racial, cultural, and national identity. African-American theatre artists to be examined include Amiri Baraka, Kia Corthron, W.E.B. Du Bois, Angelina Grimke, Langston Hughes, Georgia Douglas Johnson, Adrienne Kennedy, Suzan-Lori Parks, Adrian Piper, and August Wilson. Fulfills one (of two) required courses in dramatic literature for Theatre/Drama and Theatre Arts major. ENGL BC3190 Global Literature in English. 3 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Cultures in Comparison (CUL)., BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Literature (LIT). Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Selective survey of fiction from the ex-colonies, focusing on the colonial encounter, cultural and political decolonization, and belonging and migration in the age of postcolonial imperialism. Areas covered include Africa (Achebe, Aidoo, Armah, Ngugi); the Arab World (Mahfouz, Munif, Salih, Souief); South Asia (Mistry, Rushdie, Suleri); the Carribean (Kincaid); and New Zealand (Hulme). ENGL BC3194 Critical and Theoretical Perspectives on Literature: Marxist Literary Theory. 3 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Literature (LIT). Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Evolution of Marxist criticism from Marx to Jameson and Eagleton. Central questions: What is unique about Marxist cultural analysis? What are the different Marxist schools of criticism? Is there a future for Marxism? Issues considered: capitalism and culture, class analysis, commitment, modernism and postmodernism, commodification and alienation, and postcolonialism. ENGL BC3196 Home to Harlem: Literature of the Harlem Renaissance. 4 points. In the spring of 2020, Home to Harlem will focus on Harlem as a crossroads, diasporic and transnational black mecca. Exploring the cultural contexts and aesthetic debates that animated Harlem in 1920s to 1930s, the course discusses the politics of literary and performative cultural production while exploring the fashioning of New Negro identity through fiction, poetry, essays, artwork and music. Topics considered include: role of Africa/slavery/the south in New Negro expression, patronage, passing, primitivism/popular culture, black dialect as literary language, and the problematics of creating a “racial” art in/for a diverse community comprised of differences in gender, class, sexuality, and geographical origin. This course will partner with AfroSwedish hip-hop artist, writer, and activist Jason ‘Timbuktu’ Diakité and Harlem Stage. Born to interracial American parents in Sweden (his father hails from Harlem), Diakité grew up between worlds, riding a delicate cultural and racial divide. His search to unify a complex system of family roots has taken him across continents, ethnicities, classes, colors, and eras to find a sense of belonging. In spring of 2020, he comes Home to Harlem when he performs a new stage version of his memoir, A Drop Of Midnight, at Harlem Stage. Spring 2020: ENGL BC3196 Course NumberSection/Call NumberTimes/LocationInstructorPointsEnrollment ENGL 3196002/00701T 12:10pm - 2:00pm 113 Milstein CenterMonica Miller415/15 French and Francophone Studies FREN UN3421 Introduction To French and Francophone Studies II. 3 points. Prerequisites: FREN UN3405 Advanced Grammar and Composition or an AP score of 5 or the director of undergraduate studies' permission. Universalism vs. exceptionalism, tradition vs. modernity, integration and exclusion, racial, gender, regional, and national identities are considered in this introduction to the contemporary French-speaking world in Europe, the Americas, and Africa. Authors include: Aimé Césaire, Léopold Sedar Senghor, Frantz Fanon, Maryse Condé. Spring 2020: FREN UN3421 Course NumberSection/Call NumberTimes/LocationInstructorPointsEnrollment FREN 3421001/16198T Th 10:10am - 11:25am 54 Thorndike HallTommaso Manfredini314/20 French (Barnard) FREN BC3070 Negritude. 3 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: FREN BC1204: French Intermediate II or the equivalent level is required. Analysis of the theoretical and literary precursors of négritude; major figures of the movement; relations with the Harlem Renaissance; and the formulation of creolity by contemporary Caribbean writers and thinkers. Authors will include Gobineau, Maran, Price-Mars, Hughes, McKay, Césaire, Senghor, Damas, Fanon, Sartre, Glissant, and Chamoiseau. Taught in French.General Education Requirement: Cultures in Comparison (CUL). FREN BC3071 Major Literary Works of the French-Speaking World. 3 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Introduction to major works of fiction from the French speaking countries of the Caribbean, West Africa, North Africa and Indochina. Considers some of the principal authors of these regions, and examines the sociopolitical, historical, and aesthetic considerations that have influenced Francophone literary production in the twentieth century. FREN BC1204: French Intermediate II or the equivalent level is required. FREN BC3072 Francophone Fiction: Special Topics. 4 points. Looks at the portrayal of women as unsettling figures in the Francophone Caribbean literary universe. Examining the uncanny heroines in the novels of both male and female writers, students will identify the thematic commonalities and specific configurative strategies that emerge in the fictional representation of women in the region. The symbolic import of zombies, schizophrenics, and other "disordering" characters will be analyzed as indicators of and reflections on broader social realities. FREN BC1204: French Intermediate II or the equivalent level is required. FREN BC3073 Africa in Cinema. 3 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Considerations of African-directed twentieth century films concerning French-speaking, sub-Saharan West Africa. Reflections on tradition and modernity, politics and popular culture, the status of women, youth problems, identity construction. Placement of African film within its own tradition. Class taught in English. French and Romance Philology FREN UN3421 Introduction To French and Francophone Studies II. 3 points. Prerequisites: FREN UN3405 Advanced Grammar and Composition or an AP score of 5 or the director of undergraduate studies' permission. Universalism vs. exceptionalism, tradition vs. modernity, integration and exclusion, racial, gender, regional, and national identities are considered in this introduction to the contemporary French-speaking world in Europe, the Americas, and Africa. Authors include: Aimé Césaire, Léopold Sedar Senghor, Frantz Fanon, Maryse Condé. Spring 2020: FREN UN3421 Course NumberSection/Call NumberTimes/LocationInstructorPointsEnrollment FREN 3421001/16198T Th 10:10am - 11:25am 54 Thorndike HallTommaso Manfredini314/20 History HIST W3540 History of the South. 3 points. A survey of the history of the American South from the colonial era to the present day, with two purposes: first, to afford students an understanding of the special historical characteristics of the South and of southerners; and second, to explore what the experience of the South may teach about America as a nation. Group(s): D Field(s): US HIST W3772 West African History. 3 points. CC/GS/SEAS: Partial Fulfillment of Global Core Requirement This course offers a survey of main themes in West African history over the last millenium, with particular emphasis on the period from the mid-15th through the 20th century. Themes include the age of West African empires (Ghana, Mali, Songhay); re-alignments of economic and political energies towards the Atlantic coast; the rise and decline of the trans-Atlantic trade in slaves; the advent and demise of colonial rule; and internal displacement, migrations, and revolutions. In the latter part of the course, we will appraise the continuities and ruptures of the colonial and post-colonial eras. Group(s): C Field(s): AFR HIST W4429 Telling About the South. 4 points. A remarkable array of Southern historians, novelists, and essayists have done what Shreve McCannon urges Quentin Compson to do in William Faulkner's Absalom, Absalom!--tell about the South--producing recognized masterpieces of American literature. Taking as examples certain writers of the 19th and 20th centuries, this course explores the issues they confronted, the relationship between time during which and about they wrote, and the art of the written word as exemplified in their work. Group(s): D Field(s): US Limited enrollment. Priority given to senior history majors. After obtaining permission from the professor, please add yourself to the course wait list so the department can register you in the course. HIST W4768 Writing Contemporary African History. 4 points. Prerequisites: the instructor's permission. SEE UNDERGRADUATE SEMINAR SECTION OF THE HISTORY DEPARTMENT'S WEBSITE. An exploration of the historiography of contemporary (post-1960) Africa, this course asks what African history is, what is unique about it, and what is at stake in its production. Field(s): AFR HIST W4928 Comparative Slavery and Abolition in the Atlantic World. 4 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: seminar application required. SEE UNDERGRADUATE SEMINAR SECTION OF THE HISTORY DEPARTMENT'S WEBSITE. This seminar investigates the experiences of slavery and freedom among African-descended people living and laboring in the various parts of the Atlantic World. The course will trace critical aspects of these two major, interconnected historical phenomena with an eye to how specific cases either manifested or troubled broader trends across various slaveholding societies. The first half of the course addresses the history of slavery and the second half pertains to experiences in emancipation. However, since the abolition of slavery occurs at different moments in various areas of the Atlantic World, the course will adhere to a thematic rather than a chronological structure, in its examination of the multiple avenues to freedom available in various regions. Weekly units will approach major themes relevant to both slavery and emancipation, such as racial epistemologies among slaveowners/employers, labor regimes in slave and free societies, cultural innovations among slave and freed communities, gendered discourses and sexual relations within slave and free communities, and slaves’ and freepeople’s resistance to domination. The goal of this course is to broaden students’ comprehension of the history of slavery and freedom, and to promote an understanding of the transition from slavery to freedom in the Americas as creating both continuities and ruptures in the structure and practices of the various societies concerned. Group(s): ABCD Field(s): US/LA History (Barnard) HIST BC1760 Introduction to African History: 1700-Present. 4 points. Survey of African history from the 18th century to the contemporary period. We will explore six major themes in African History: Africa and the Making of the Atlantic World, Colonialism in Africa, the 1940s, Nationalism and Independence Movements, Post-Colonialism in Africa, and Issues in the Making of Contemporary Africa. Spring 2020: HIST BC1760 Course NumberSection/Call NumberTimes/LocationInstructorPointsEnrollment HIST 1760001/00209M W 11:40am - 12:55pm Ll104 Diana CenterAbosede George434 HIST BC2180 Merchants, Pirates, and Slaves in the Making of Atlantic Capitalism. 3 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Historical Studies (HIS)., BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Cultures in Comparison (CUL). Examines how the Atlantic Ocean and its boundaries were tied together through the flow of people, goods, and ideas. Studies the cultures of the communities formed by merchants, pirates, and slaves; investigates how their interactions and frictions combined to shape the unique combination of liberty and oppression that characterizes early modern capitalism. HIST BC2980 World Migration. 3 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Social Analysis (SOC I)., BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Historical Studies (HIS)., BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Social Analysis (SOC II). Overview of human migration from pre-history to the present. Sessions on classical Rome; Jewish diaspora; Viking, Mongol, and Arab conquests; peopling of New World, European colonization, and African slavery; 19th-century European mass migration; Chinese and Indian diasporas; resurgence of global migration in last three decades, and current debates. HIST BC3402 Selected Topics in American Women's History. 4 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Historical Studies (HIS). Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor. Enrollment limited to 15. Preregistration required. Critical examination of recent trends in modern U.S. women's history, with particular attention to the intersection of gender, sexuality, class, and race. Topics will include: state regulation of marriage and sexuality, roots of modern feminism, altered meanings of motherhood and work, and changing views of the body. HIST BC3546 The Fourteenth Amendment and Its Uses. 4 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Historical Studies (HIS). Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor. Enrollment limited to 15. Preregistration required. The role of the 14th Amendment in shaping the modern American Constitution; theories of judicial review; the rise and fall of economic due process; the creation of civil liberties; the civil rights revolution; and the end of states' rights. HIST BC3587 Remembering Slavery: Critiquing Modern Representations of the Peculiar Institution. 4 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Historical Studies (HIS). Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor. Enrollment limited to 15. Preregistration required. The enslavement of people of African descent signifies a crucial historical and cultural marker not only for African-Americans but also for Americans in general. We will interrogate how and why images of slavery continue to be invoked within the American sociocultural landscape (e.g., in films, documentaries, historical novels, and science fiction). HIST BC3763 Children and Childhood in African History. 4 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Historical Studies (HIS). Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor. Enrollment limited to 15. Preregistration required. This course focuses on the history of childhood and youth in African societies and how young people as historical agents have impacted the social histories of their communities. How did young Africans live in past times? What forces shaped understanding of their status as children or youth? How have major historical processes such as colonialism, industrialization, apartheid, and liberation, neocolonialism, and neoliberalism impacted and been impacted by children and youth in Africa? What roles have young people themselves played in the making of African histories? These questions will be explored in course readings, discussions, and students' original research projects. HIST BC3771 Critical Perspectives on the Mobilization of Race and Ethnicity on the Continent and in the Study of Africa. 4 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: Sophomore Standing. Critically examines the relationship between social difference and narratives and practices of power in historical and contemporary African publics. Race and Ethnicity are the key axes of social difference that will be examined. Other axes of difference such as gender, sexuality, class, caste, generation and nationality will also be examined through points of intersection with race and ethnicity. HIST BC3905 Capitalism, Colonialism, and Culture: A Global History. 4 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Historical Studies (HIS). Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: Permission of Instructor. Enrollment limited to 15. Preregistration required. From Indian Ocean worlds of the seventeenth century, to Atlantic world slavery, to the establishment of colonies in Asia and Africa during the nineteenth century, colonization was critical to the development of metropolitan ideas regarding politics and personhood. This seminar will examine these histories, along with emerging constructions of race and gender, as precursors to debates about human rights and humanitarianism in the twentieth century. Music MUSI V2020 Course MUSI V2020 Not Found. MUSI W4435 Music and Performance in the African Postcolony. 3 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. This course examines music and performance in various African contexts, focusing on the postcolonial period. It will explore the complex interactions between music, politics, nation, race, and mediation through case studies from Ghana, Nigeria, DRC, Kenya, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Namibia, and South Africa. In addition, discussions will involve what is meant to speak about "African music," and class will theorize about the conditions of musical production in the context of postcolonialism. MUSI GU4540 Histories of Post-1960's Jazz. 3 points. Prerequisites: HUMA W1123 or the equivalent. Historiographical issues surrounding the performance of jazz and improvised musics after 1960. Topics include genre and canon formation, gender, race, and cultural nationalisms, economics and infrastructure, debates around art and the vernacular, globalization, and media reception. Reading knowledge of music is not required. Political Science (Barnard) POLS BC3101 * Colloquium on Black Political Thought. 4 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: POLS W1013 or the equivalent. Admission by application through the Barnard department only. Enrollment limited to 16 students. Barnard syllabus. Advanced political theory colloquium treats black political thought as concerned with the universal problem of domination. Examines how black thinkers relate democracy, slavery and race; redefine race consciousness as linked fate; articulate new social theories to suggest new "meanings" for race; redefine the political to address social and aesthetic concerns. POLS V3604 Civil Wars and International Intervention in Africa. 3 points. Enrollment limited to 110.Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: at least sophomore standing, except in consultation with the instructor. This course analyzes the causes of violence in civil wars. It examines the debates around emergency aid, peacekeeping and peacebuilding. In addition, it focuses on recent conflict situations in Africa -- especially Congo, Sudan, and Rwanda -- as a background against which to understand the distinct dynamics of violence, peace, and international interventions in civil conflicts. (Cross-listed by the Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race.) POLS BC3810 *Colloquium on Aid, Politics & Violence in Africa. 4 points. Prerequisites: POLS UN1601 or the equivalent. Admission by application through the Barnard department only. Explores the concepts, theoretical traditions and debates around development and humanitarian aid, focusing on the relationships between aid, politics, and violence. It looks at the political and military impacts of aid, the linkage between humanitarian aid and conflict resolution, and aid's contribution to perpetuating subtle forms of domination. (Cross-listed by the Africana Studies and the Human Rights Programs.) Political Science POLS UN3619 Nationalism and Contemporary World Politics. 3 points. The causes and consequences of nationalism. Nationalism as a cause of conflict in contemporary world politics. Strategies for mitigating nationalist and ethnic conflict. Spring 2020: POLS UN3619 Course NumberSection/Call NumberTimes/LocationInstructorPointsEnrollment POLS 3619001/10556T Th 10:10am - 11:25am 633 Seeley W. Mudd BuildingJack Snyder354/70 POLS GU4445 Course POLS GU4445 Not Found. Religion RELI V2615 Religions of Harlem. 3 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Through a range of field exercises and classroom guests, this course will introduce students to the rich religious history of Harlem, while also challenging them to document and analyze the diversity of Harlem's contemporary religious scene. RELI V3630 Religion and Black Popular Cultures. 3 points. As an exploration of the relationship between religion, race, and popular culture, the course will begin with theoretical readings that expose students to a variety of definitions of and approaches to each of these categories. After tackling these theoretical concerns, the remainder of the course will entail a cross genre and thematic engagement with the terrain of black popular culture(s) in which students will be challenged to apply new theoretical resources in order to interpret a wide range of "religious" phenomena. RELI V3650 Religion and the Civil Rights Movement. 3 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Historical Studies (HIS). Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Examination of the role of religion in the drive for civil rights during the 1950s and 1960s. The course will look at the role of activists, churches, clergy, sermons, and music in forging the consensus in favor of civil rights. RELI W4826 Religion, Race and Slavery. 0 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. This course explores the religious aspects of race and slavery from the Bible through the abolition of slavery in and around the Enlightenment, ending in the post-colonial era. The focus is mostly on the Atlantic World. RELI W4630 African-American Religion. 4 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Explores a range of topics in African-American Religion, which may include the African background and the transmission of African cultures, religion under slavery, independent black churches, religion and race relations, and modern theological movements. In Spring 2008, the course will focus on the religious lives of African immigrants to the US, emphasizing field and documentary methods. Sociology (Barnard) SOCI UN3235 Social Movements. 3 points. Prerequisites: One introductory course in Sociology suggested. Social movements and the theories social scientists use to explain them, with emphasis on the American civil rights and women's movements. Topics include theories of participation, the personal and social consequences of social movements, the rationality of protest, the influence of ideology, organization, and the state on movement success, social movements, and the mass media. Fall 2020: SOCI UN3235 Course NumberSection/Call NumberTimes/LocationInstructorPointsEnrollment SOCI 3235001/00051M T W Th 2:40pm - 3:55pm Room TBADebra Minkoff345/45 SOCI V3247 The Immigrant Experience, Old and New. 3 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Social Analysis (SOC I)., BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Cultures in Comparison (CUL). Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. The immigrant experience in the United States. Topics include ideologies of the melting pot; social, cultural, and economic life of earlier immigrants; the distinctiveness of the African-American experience; recent surge of "new" immigrants (Asians, Latinos, West Indians); and changing American views of immigration. SOCI BC3913 Inequalities: Race, Class, Gender and Sexuality in U.S. Law and Society. 4 points. This class will examine the historical roots and ongoing persistence of social, economic, and political inequality and the continuing role that it plays in U.S. society by examining how such issues have been addressed both in social science and in law. Drama and Theatre Arts (Barnard) ENTH BC3144 Black Theatre. 4 points. Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: Enrollment limited to 16 students. Exploration of Black Theater, specifically African-American performance traditions, as an intervening agent in racial, cultural, and national identity. African-American theatre artists to be examined include Amiri Baraka, Kia Corthron, W.E.B. Du Bois, Angelina Grimke, Langston Hughes, Georgia Douglas Johnson, Adrienne Kennedy, Suzan-Lori Parks, Adrian Piper, and August Wilson. Fulfills one (of two) required courses in dramatic literature for Theatre/Drama and Theatre Arts major. Women's Studies (Barnard) WMST BC3134 Unheard Voices: African Women's Literature. 4 points. BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Cultures in Comparison (CUL)., BC: Fulfillment of General Education Requirement: Literature (LIT). Not offered during 2020-21 academic year. Prerequisites: Enrollment limited to 14 students. How does one talk of women in Africa without thinking of Africa as a ‘mythic unity’? We will consider the political, racial, social and other contexts in which African women write and are written about in the context of their located lives in Africa and in the African Diaspora. This course is the same as AFRS BC3134 Unheard Voices: African Women's Literature. WMST W4305 Feminist Postcolonial Theory. 4 points. Prerequisites: Critical Approaches and/or permission of instructor. Enrollment limited to 20 students. Examines important concerns, concepts and methodological approaches of postcolonial theory, with a focus on feminist perspectives on and strategies for the decolonization of Eurocentric knowledge-formations and practices of Western colonialism. Topics for discussion and study include orientalism, colonialism, nationalism and gender, the politics of cultural representations, subjectivity and subalternity, history, religion, and contemporary global relations of domination. Site Footer 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212-851-9242 | africana@barnard.edu Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University