Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts & Sciences African and African-American Studies myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link About our Department Select to follow link About AAAS What is Africana Studies? Intellectual Vision and Mission AAAS Chronology AAAS Newsletters Departmental Bylaws A Brief History of AAAS (Video) Contact Us Academics Select to follow link Our Academic Programs Degrees Select to follow link What Can I Do With A Degree In AAAS Select to follow link What Can I Do With A Degree In AAAS Skill Sets and Career Options Undergraduate Degrees in AAAS Graduate Degrees in AAAS Courses Languages Select to follow link Arabic Select to follow link Courses Offered KU Summer African Languages Institute Placement Resources Study Abroad Haitian-Creole Select to follow link Courses Offered Placement Kiswahili Select to follow link Courses Offered KU Summer African Languages Institute Placement Wolof Select to follow link Courses Offered KU Summer African Language Institute Placement Advising Africana Annual Foreign Language and Area Studies Fellowship Scholarships & Funding People Select to follow link Faculty Instructors & Lecturers MA Students Staff Courtesy Faculty Visiting Professorship Committees Resources Select to follow link Departmental Statements Select to follow link Report of the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Advisory Group (pdf) Statement in Support of FOKAL Statement in Support of the Black Student Union Statement on Anti-Blackness and Protests The Hazards of Concealed Firearms on Campus Tips for Avoiding Voluntourism in Haiti Resources Events Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts & Sciences African and African-American Studies Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search African and African-American Studies Our Department will introduce you to histories, cultures and societies in Africa and its Diasporas, with due attention to the United States, the Caribbean, and Latin America. Our degrees, with opportunities for fieldwork in Africa or the African Diaspora, encourage students to engage in independent study to maximize their academic and research potential, and prepare for careers in these geographic, cultural, and policy areas. Undergraduate The Department offers a B.A. (Bachelor of Arts), a B.G.S. (Bachelor of General Studies), a minor in African & African-American Studies, and a minor in African & African Diasporic Languages. Undergraduate Studies Graduate The African and African-American Studies M.A. program takes two years of full-time study. Nine upper-division and graduate courses, in addition to a thesis or additional course work for a non-thesis option, are required for the degree. Graduate Studies Department of African and African-American Studies Apply Now The Department encourages and welcomes donations for student scholarships, lecture series, teaching and service awards, faculty research, public programming, and other activities. Please use this link to donate to African and African-American Studies. Don't miss: Employment Opportunities, the Africana Club, or Gift Giving. For student scholarships, faculty research, lecture series, teaching awards, service awards, and overall improvement, the Department encourages and welcomes donations. Please, use this link to donate to the Department African & African-American Studies. Donate & Support AAAS Follow AAAS on Twitter Bailey Hall, Room 9 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 afs@ku.edu 785-864-3054 facebook instagram twitter youtube University of Kansas Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.