Why Texas A&M For Veterans? Application To Vocation Programs Military Admissions Aggie Veteran Network (AVN) V.A.L.O.R Student Veteran Transition Programs VA Programs Outreach & Awareness Programs Academic Support Programs Financial Support Programs Well-Being Programs Employment and Career Programs Military Affiliated Organizations Graduation Information About Us About the VRSC Our Support Philosophy Meet the Staff Meet the Knausses Events Supporting Student Veterans Veteran Benefits Skip to main content Skip to footer Menu Header Right Search website... Follow Us: Why Texas A&M For Veterans? Application To Vocation Programs Military Admissions Aggie Veteran Network (AVN) V.A.L.O.R Student Veteran Transition Programs VA Programs Outreach & Awareness Programs Academic Support Programs Financial Support Programs Well-Being Programs Employment and Career Programs Military Affiliated Organizations Graduation Information About Us About the VRSC Our Support Philosophy Meet the Staff Meet the Knausses Events Supporting Student Veterans Veteran Benefits Home Howdy and Welcome to the Don & Ellie Knauss Veteran Resource & Support Center at Texas A&M University! The Don & Ellie Knauss Veteran Resource and Support Center (VRSC) proudly provides caring, personalized and continuous support to Aggie undergraduate and graduate student veterans and military-affiliated students. Opened in 2012, the VRSC assists our veterans in navigating and successfully transitioning to Texas A&M by providing a welcoming space, peer leadership, innovative programs, and a vast array of tools and resources to facilitate individual academic and personal success. Whether you are a veteran who has completed your service and are embarking on your first college experience, interrupted your higher education to serve and are now returning, or began your studies elsewhere and are coming to Texas A&M to complete your degree, we are committed to your success and are here to help you achieve the most out of your Aggie experience. Contact us via email or phone, or better yet, stop by and let us meet you in person and experience everything the VRSC and Texas A&M have to offer student veterans! ATTENTION Military Activation Information If you are a military student who has received orders for active duty assignment, or a faculty, staff member or academic advisor who is assisting an activated military student, please refer the student to our office to ensure they are making all necessary university contacts for their accommodations and/or withdrawal. Site Footer COME VISIT US! Memorial Student Center (MSC) Suite 1500 (through the glass doors at the West end of the Hall of Honor and MSC Veterans Lounge) 275 Joe Routt Blvd College Station, TX 77843 Mailing Address: 1251 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-1251 Hours: Monday – Friday, 8am-5pm Phone: +1 (979) 845-3161 Contact the VRSC or Contact Military Admissions Donate Here: tx.ag/aggieveterans Copyright 2022 • Don & Ellie Knauss Veteran Resource and Support Center | DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS • All Rights Reserved. • Hosted by Division of Student Affairs Department of IT