Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Center on the Biology of Aging Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Mission Meet the Leaders Academic Units Contact Education Undergraduate Postdoctoral Graduate MBoA Research Brown Core Facilities Faculty Events Upcoming Events Past Aging Seminars Past PAARF Meetings Past Annual Colloquia Diversity News Outreach MBoA Retreat Conferences Day of Biology Funding Search Division of Biology and Medicine Center on the Biology of Aging Events Sub Navigation In This Section Upcoming Events Past Aging Seminars Past PAARF Meetings Past Annual Colloquia Events The Center on the Biology of Aging had four regular events in addition to the Day of Biology. These are the Biology of Aging Seminar Series, the Providence Area Aging Research Forum (PAARF), the annual Brown Colloquium on the Biology of Human Aging, and the Biology of Aging Annual Retreat. Nuclei - access to neighboring facilities provides countless opportunities for high-tech applications. The Providence Area Aging Research Forum, also known as PAARF, is a monthly venue that follows a 'group meeting' format. Graduate students and postdocs present talks in an informal atmosphere, with a focus on discussing unpublished research in progress. PAARF is held in the early evening on the third Tuesday of each month (unless otherwise announced) in the Laboratories for Molecular Medicine at 70 Ship Street, Room 107. Food is served at 5:30 pm, and talks begin at 6 pm. This venue has been enthusiastically embraced and has attracted participants from the surrounding community, including Providence College and the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole. Please see the upcoming events for talks scheduled in the current semester. Visit Past PAARF Meetings for a listing of past events. After-seminar discussions in the Laboratories for Molecular Medicine: Assistant Professor Jill Kreiling (left), Lab Manager Abigail Peterson (middle), and Postdoctoral Associate Marco De Cecco (right). For the past seventeen years, the annual Brown Colloquium on the Biology of Human Aging has brought outstanding scientists from around the world to Brown for a one-day symposium to speak on a variety of current issues in aging research. John Sedivy and Marc Tatar founded the Colloquium in 1998, with support from the Center for Gerontology and Health Care Research. It is open to the Brown community and the general public, and is an important outreach activity that brings together the gerontology and geriatrics community with campus-based basic researchers. Please see upcoming events for more information. Visit Past Annual Colloquia for a listing of past events. The Center on the Biology of Aging hosts the Biology of Aging Annual Retreat to highlight the accomplishments of the BOA students and faculty. The 2018 BOA retreat was held on Saturday, October 20th, in room 220 and the adjoining atrium in Sidney Frank Hall. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Mission Meet the Leaders Academic Units Contact Education Undergraduate Postdoctoral Graduate MBoA Research Brown Core Facilities Faculty Events Upcoming Events Past Aging Seminars Past PAARF Meetings Past Annual Colloquia Diversity News Outreach MBoA Retreat Conferences Day of Biology Funding Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Events Open details for Events Bookmark this Page