Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Center on the Biology of Aging Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Mission Meet the Leaders Academic Units Contact Education Undergraduate Postdoctoral Graduate MBoA Research Brown Core Facilities Faculty Events Upcoming Events Past Aging Seminars Past PAARF Meetings Past Annual Colloquia Diversity News Outreach MBoA Retreat Conferences Day of Biology Funding Search Division of Biology and Medicine Center on the Biology of Aging Day of Biology Breadcrumb Home News Sub Navigation In This Section Outreach MBoA Retreat Conferences Day of Biology Day of Biology Part of the year-long celebration of Imagine Brown 250+, the Day of Biology featured the life sciences at Brown. The day’s events included colloquia on timely topics in the field, an exhibition of research at Brown, and a celebratory reception. One of the Colloquia explored the topic: Why Do We Age? Day of Biology March 7, 2015 Part of the year-long celebration of Imagine Brown 250+, the Day of Biology featured the life sciences at Brown. The day’s events included colloquia on timely topics in the field, an exhibition of research at Brown, and a celebratory reception. One of the Colloquia explored the topic: Why Do We Age? Members of the Center on the Biology of Aging and invited panelists discussed current research trends with moderator John Sedivy. View the "Why Do We Age?" panelists below for a description of the presenters and their research interests. "Why Do We Age?" Colloquium Faculty Moderator John Sedivy, PhD, P’17, Hermon C. Bumpus Professor of Biology and Professor of Medical Science at Brown, studies the aging of mammalian species such as the mouse. His group is well known for their work on replicative senescence, a process of cellular aging. More recently, they have studied the epigenetic regulation of mobile genetic elements present in our genomes, and have identified a novel genetic alteration that extends the healthy life span of mice. Panelists Ann Cheung, '02, PhD, Collaborative Programs Manager at the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research at MIT, oversees interactions between Koch Institute researchers and their biopharmaceutical industry partners. Prior to this, she was the Senior Scientific Editor at the journal Cancer Cell. Ann received her PhD in Biology from MIT and her ScB in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology from Brown, where she was involved in one of the first expression profiling experiments on the MYC oncogene. Wendy Cyr, PhD'06, is a Senior Scientist at Dicerna Pharmaceuticals Inc., Cambridge, MA. She received her PhD in Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry from Brown, and pursued postdoctoral studies at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute. At Brown Wendy studied the role of reactive oxygen species in promoting cellular senescence. She currently works on the in vivo delivery and release of target-specific siRNAs for the treatment of undruggable diseases. Utz Herbig, PhD, Associate Professor of Microbiology, Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics at the Rutgers New Jersey Medical School Cancer Center, studies aging and age-associated cancer development in humans. His research is focused on telomere initiated cellular senescence, an important tumor suppression mechanism that potentially can also promote aging. He started this research program at Brown where he trained as a postdoctoral fellow. Jeffrey Hofmann, '08, PhD'14, MD’16, is currently pursuing medical education at the Brown Alpert Medical School. He obtained his ScB in Computational Biology and his PhD in Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry. For his thesis research Jeff studied the physiology and metabolic regulation of a genetically engineered, long-lived mouse strain. Louis Lapierre, PhD, Assistant Professor of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry, started his appointment at Brown in January 2015. He trained as a postdoctoral fellow at the Del E. Webb Center for Neuroscience, Aging and Stem Cell Research at Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute. Louis studies an important cellular quality assurance process known as autophagy that recycles damaged molecules. He discovered a new longevity-associated, autophagy-modulating transcription factor, which is emerging as an attractive target for the development of autophagy-enhancing drugs. Ashley Webb, PhD, Assistant Professor of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry, joined the Brown faculty in January 2015. She trained as a postdoctoral fellow at the Paul F. Glenn Laboratories for the Biology of Aging at Stanford University. Ashley studies the process of aging in mammals, with a focus on understanding how and why stem cells in the brain decline in function with age. She recently identified a genome-wide network of genes that are important for the preservation of neural stem cells and formation of new neurons during aging. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Mission Meet the Leaders Academic Units Contact Education Undergraduate Postdoctoral Graduate MBoA Research Brown Core Facilities Faculty Events Upcoming Events Past Aging Seminars Past PAARF Meetings Past Annual Colloquia Diversity News Outreach MBoA Retreat Conferences Day of Biology Funding Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Day of Biology Open details for Day of Biology Bookmark this Page