Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Center on the Biology of Aging Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Mission Meet the Leaders Academic Units Contact Education Undergraduate Postdoctoral Graduate MBoA Research Brown Core Facilities Faculty Events Upcoming Events Past Aging Seminars Past PAARF Meetings Past Annual Colloquia Diversity News Outreach MBoA Retreat Conferences Day of Biology Funding Search Division of Biology and Medicine Center on the Biology of Aging Diversity Diversity The greater Brown University community, including the Center on the Biology of Aging and the entire Division of Biology and Medicine, is dedicated to endorsing an environment that is inclusive and promotes advancement for individuals from all racial and socioeconomic backgrounds. The greater Brown University community, including the Center on the Biology of Aging and the entire Division of Biology and Medicine, is dedicated to endorsing an environment that is inclusive and promotes advancement for individuals from all racial and socioeconomic backgrounds. There are several programs and centers that support diversity for students in the Brown community. These programs are open to all members of the Brown community, regardless of ethnicity or background. MBoA Retreat Advancing the Culture of PhD Learning and Scholarship in Biology and Health Science program, as part of the Initiative to Maximize Student Development (IMSD) program, strives to significantly increase under-represented minority pre-doctoral students within the fields of biomedical and behavioral research. The goal of this program is to develop community, collaboration and excellence by creating a unique advising plan and support structure for each IMSD student throughout their training period. Society for Advancement of Chicanos/as and Native Americans in Science, SACNAS@Brown, aims to foster success in science for all people at all levels of their career. The Brown University SACNAS chapter was established in 2012 with a mission to support scientists to attain advanced degrees and careers and positions of leadership in science. SACNAS membership is open to all undergraduate and graduate students, post-docs and faculty of all cultural affiliations. The Leadership Alliance is an academic consortium of 36 institutions of higher learning, including leading research and teaching colleges and universities. The mission of the Leadership Alliance is to develop students from underrepresented groups into outstanding leaders and role models in academia, business and the public sector. The Brown University research communities open their laboratories to Leadership Alliance interns and many Brown University faculty contribute to the mentorship of these students. Student Accessibility Services (SAS) provides extensive support and a wide variety of services for students, faculty, and staff with physical, psychological, and learning disabilities. Advancing Rhode Island Science Education (ARISE) is a professional development program designed to train high school biology teachers in Rhode Island in inquiry-based approaches in high-school classrooms. This NIH-funded program provides an opportunity for Brown students to contribute to science education at a number of local schools that serve large minority populations. MBoA Retreat Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center is dedicated to providing communal academic and social space for members of the Brown community who identify with the first-generation college and/or low-income student experience, including international, undocumented, transfer, and graduate students. Brown Center for Students of Color (BCSC) encourages students to build meaningful relationships across differences, develop racial and ethnic consciousness, and enact change at Brown and beyond. The BCSC advances the University’s mission of educating and preparing students to discharge the offices of life with usefulness and reputation by empowering students of color, cultivating leadership, facilitating critical reflection, fostering informed action, and promoting social justice. The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) at Brown University is an interdisciplinary program that aims to build community among scholars and students working on race and ethnicity. CSREA aspires to develop new and enhance existing research networks, foster generative public conversations on pivotal issues, enhance public knowledge about racial and ethnic discrimination, and contribute to national and community efforts to create a more just society. LGBTQ Center provides a comprehensive range of education/training, cultural, social and educational programming, support services and advocacy services to the entire Brown Community. The center works to create and maintain an open, safe, and inclusive environment for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and questioning students, faculty, and staff, their families and friends, and the campus community at large. Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender seeks to provide a comfortable yet challenging place for students, faculty, and staff to examine the multitude of issues around gender. The SDWC offers programs and services for all members of the Brown community, and is a site for research into and exploration of gender issues that extend into and beyond the classroom. Office of Military-Affiliated Students provides Student Veterans and current or prospective officer commissioning program participants with the tools and resources needed to succeed at Brown. MBoA Retreat The Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life (OCRL) aims to ensure that a diversity of beliefs have voice and vitality throughout the University community. OCRL seeks to create spaces and opportunities within the immediate environs of the University and in its larger circles where profound questions can be voiced and explored openly, whether these concerns originate within religious, philosophical, ethical, or spiritual practice. Office of Institutional Equity & Diversity serves as a critical leader, resource and support in promoting and sustaining more inclusive and diverse learning and working environments at all levels at Brown. OIDI supports Brown’s goals related to equal opportunity, diversity and inclusion. Office of International Student and Scholar Services aims to support the University’s internationalization and to facilitate the integration of international students and scholars into the Brown community. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Mission Meet the Leaders Academic Units Contact Education Undergraduate Postdoctoral Graduate MBoA Research Brown Core Facilities Faculty Events Upcoming Events Past Aging Seminars Past PAARF Meetings Past Annual Colloquia Diversity News Outreach MBoA Retreat Conferences Day of Biology Funding Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Diversity Open details for Diversity Bookmark this Page