Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York | Mailman School of Public Health Email Cubmail CUIT Web Outlook Access LionMail Manage My UNI Quick Links Academic Calendar Bookstore Columbia News Commencement CourseWorks Directory of Classes Employment at Columbia Environmental Sustainability Events Calendar Financial Aid Human Resources Library Hours Maps Public Safety Student Organizations Main Menu About Admissions Academics Research Libraries Medical Center A-Z Index Home About People Butler Legacy Contact Us Research Research Areas University Seminar Impact ILC-USA ILC-Global Alliance IAGG Projects Exceeding Expectations Age Smart Employer Award Age Boom Academy Other Translational Work AARP Experience Corps Education News & Events News Events Press State-of -the Art Tool for Measuring the Pace of Aging Daniel W. Belsky, PhD Research Breakthrough The NAM-Global Roadmap for Healthy Longevity Releases June 3 Linda P. Fried, MD, MPH To learn more, click above. The Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center Columbia University's Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center is a university-wide hub for aging science and policy. Located at the Mailman School of Public Health, the center carries out a mission is interdisciplinary research, policy and education to advance aging equity. Biological Aging Biological Aging.jpg Our focus is Increasing healthy lifespan, especially for socially disadvantaged population segments. Read More Global Health & Aging GlobalAging.jpg The effect of different cultural and contextual aspects on aging trajectories around the world and the potential of generative social capital of older adults in global societies is one of the three focal points for our researchers. Read More Aging Societies Societal Aging.jpg Our researchers work to harness social capital and reinforce civic infrastructure for aging societies. Read More Contribute to the Future of Aging Donate Volunteer Participate in Research Read More Events June 3, 2022 Live Release of the National Academy of Medicine-Global Roadmap for Healthy Longevity May 13, 2022 Seminar: Quantification of Biological Aging -- Opportunities in Neuroepidemiology See All Events News May 11, 2022 New findings: Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the West May 2, 2022 Discover recent publications by the Columbia Aging Center faculty April 11, 2022 Dean Linda P. Fried Awarded Kober Medal for Scientific and Mentorship Achievements See All News 722 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032 © 2022 Columbia University Contact