Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Ferguson College of Agriculture Main Menu In this section about the college departments & programs ag research extension Info for Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Home Departments & Programs Animal and Food Sciences Undergraduate Competitive Teams Equine Judging Team Competitive Teams Undergraduate Home Judging Teams Dairy Cattle Undergraduate Home Judging Teams Dairy Cattle Equine Livestock Meat Animal Evaluation Meat Other Teams Quadrathlon Quiz Bowl Equine Livestock Meat Animal Evaluation Meat Other Teams Quadrathlon Quiz Bowl Coach Steven Cooper coaches the OSU Horse Judging Team. He has coached the majority of OSU’s AQHA World Championships, including the 2016 World Champion Team which made OSU history by becoming the first equine judging team to ever go undefeated all season. Steven Cooper Associate ProfessorAnimal and Food Sciences109B Animal Science(405) 744-9278steven.cooper@okstate.edu 9AQHA World Championships The OSU Equine Judging Team has nine AQHA World and four AQHA Reserve World Championships. Testimonial "Judging is a lot more than just lining up 4 head. It is about building yourself and others. You build lifelong relationships, confidence, decision-making skills, public speaking ability, and knowledge of the industry. The things judging teaches you are simply unmeasurable and priceless." - Marissa Chapa 2015 AQHA World Champion Team Member Equine Judging Team Collegiate horse judging offers exciting and challenging opportunities for students seeking to further their knowledge of the horse industry. Judging team participation opens the door for students to become professional judges, ring stewards, college professors, educators and effective communicators. Outside of learning to judge horses, students gain valuable tools that will be beneficial in personal growth and career success, including: Development of public speaking skills Interaction with horse industry professionals Opportunity to travel Team-building Students enroll in two courses (two credits each). Course curriculum consists of weekly practices and learning all the major disciplines. Contests are a rigorous mental test and rulebook test of the student’s knowledge. Competitive judging prepares students well for the judges qualifying exam in the professional horse show industry. Competition Team members take part in training throughout the judging season. Judging begins in the spring with an introductory course and continues into the fall semester where competition schedule increases. The OSU Equine Judging Team takes part in approximately eight contests annually. View Contest List Spring Contest, Oklahoma City, OK Tulsa State Fair, Tulsa, OK AQHA Congress Show, Columbus, OH AQHA World Championship Show, Oklahoma City, OK National Reining Horse Futurity, Oklahoma City, OK. APHA World Show, Fort Worth, TX Honors & Recognition 9 AQHA World Championships 4 AQHA Reserve World Championships 6 AQHA Congress Championships 3 National Reining Horse World Championships 2 APHA Reserve World Championships 2 National Western Championships 2 Morgan National Championships 3 Tulsa State Fair Championships 3 Spring Sweepstakes Championships All-Americans 2008 - Amanda Burrows 2008 - Kristi Wright-Burton 2010 - Travis Timmons 2011 - Carrie Doyle 2012 - Emily Handke 2012 - Lauren Wells 2013 - Katie Jordan 2013 - Sarah Schobert 2014 - Jessica Neal 2014 - Jenalee Nies 2015 - Marissa Chapa 2015 - Faith Onstot 2015 - Hope Onstot 2016 - Taylor Gilbert 2016 - Rebecca Janes 2016 - Jenna Kool 2016 - Hana Murphy 2016 - Macy Perry 2016 - Dylan Price 2016 - Garrett Reed 2016 - Franchesca Rollerson 2017 - Brooke Catterton 2017 - Kayleigh Crane 2017 - Emily Haak 2017 - Karli Jones 2017 - Mattie Lemmons 2017 - Krista Rodney Team Photos All of our judging team photos are available online on Flickr. Scholarships & Aid There are multiple scholarship opportunities for judging team members, as well as potential funding for team travel expenses and practice resources. Horse Judging DVD This horse judging DVD contains several example sets of reasons given by members of the 2015 OSU Intercollegiate Horse Judging Team. This DVD will prove to be a valuable tool in helping to train youth and collegiate judging team members as they work to improve their verbal communication skills. Giving Opportunities Interested in supporting a judging team? View available giving opportunities on the OSU Foundation website. To have continued support towards the judging team and create a legacy where students who participate on the team can be supported with resources and scholarships, we have created the OSU Horse Judging Team Endowed Fund. We are planning to raise $50,000, which would be used to continually support judging teams, year after year. This will create long-term stability to the horse judging program. The OSU Horse Judging Team has a tradition of industry leaders and strong alumni. We would greatly appreciate your help and support to achieve our goal. Back To Top Back To Top Ferguson College of Agriculture Part of theDivision of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Oklahoma State University 136 Agricultural Hall Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-5395 | fergusoninfo@okstate.edu Follow Us NewsEventsCowboy Journal Magazine Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©