Skip to main content Search Field Search Exit Search College of Agricultural Sciences » BioResource Research Open search box Apply MyCAS About BRR Mission Faculty / Staff Learning Outcomes News Archives Academic Program Students Advising Advising checklists Campus Resources Double Majors and Minors Options Animal Reproduction & Development Applied Genetics Bioenergy Bioproducts Biotechnology Climate and Biosystems Modeling Environmental Chemistry Food Quality Genomics/Bioinformatics Pest Biology & Management Plant Growth & Development Sustainable Ecosystems Toxicology Water Resources BRR Timeline Research Finding a Mentor First Resume Initial Project Meeting Research Proposal Option Courses Laboratory Notebook Secondary Mentor Progress Report Thesis Final Seminar and Thesis Defense Grants and Scholarships Careers Dress for Success Preparing for Graduate School Useful Resources Future Students Mentors Mentor's Checklist Multicultural Scholars Program 2016 Scholars 2013 Scholars 2011 Scholars 2009 Scholars MSP Mentors MSP Scholar Graduates MSP Mentor Graduates Tips for Success News and Activities BioResource Research WELCOME TO THE RESEARCH MAJOR BioResource Research (BRR) is an interdisciplinary biosciences major centered around student research. Students take biosciences core courses, complete an option (bioscience/agriculture/natural resource specialization) and do a research project of their choice with a faculty mentor. This research opportunity is unmatched in any other program at OSU. BRR students are looking for more than the usual OSU education. They like to see the relevancy of their education, make a difference and gain work experience while reaching their educational goals. Nearly all of BRR graduates have found jobs or been admitted to graduate or professional schools within three months of graduating. Core Courses Take foundation courses in the biological and physical sciences. Options Choose an option (area of specialization) and tailor your upper-division courses to support your interests. Research Do a mentored research project in a cutting-edge area of science and agriculture. MissionWhat makes BRR so great?Useful Downloads Mission The BioResource Research Program in the College of Agricultural Sciences provides research-based, interdisciplinary education, in conjunction with a rigorous biosciences curriculum and opportunities for experiential learning and professional development, in fields related to biological resources, agriculture, environmental, food and health sciences. Our graduates can contribute successfully to their future career fields or graduate programs, and think critically to help solve the world’s bioresource-related problems. What makes BRR so great? BRR is one of the top research-based undergraduate programs in the nation. BRR has a terrific adviser. Students are high achievers: 50% have a GPA greater or equal to 3.25; almost a third are on the Dean's List. 13% are in the Honors College. Many double-major in related fields, or complete a minor. By graduation, virtually all BRR students have presented their research at a scientific meeting, been awarded their own research or internship funding, been a co-author on a publication, or more than one of these. BRR prepares students for graduate programs and medical school. Almost a third of BRR students identify themselves as ethnic or racial minorities. BRR Members of MANRRS (Minorities in Agricultural, Natural Resources and Related Sciences) have consistently been national competition winners and student leaders. 100% of graduates find jobs or enter graduate/professional school within three months of graduating. 60% go to graduate or professional school; Others use their training to gain employment with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, environmental consulting and engineering, teaching, science outreach, non-profits, and governmental natural resource regulatory agencies. Useful Downloads Core Advising Checklist BRR Options Checklists: Animal Reproduction and Development Applied Genetics Bioenergy Bioproducts Biotechnology Climate and Biosystems Modeling Environmental Chemistry Food Quality Genomics/Bioinformatics Pest Biology and Management Plant Growth and Development Sustainable Ecosystems Toxicology Water Resources Initial Project Meeting handout Thesis Cover Pages Our Students Top Story Sweet Potato Greens The sweet potato greens from today’s beaver bag were grown on campus and shared with the HSRC by Charlotte Epps. A... Navy Veteran: Doug Thompson Active 2008-2016, Reserves 2017-2021 | Navy "If you can't learn a lesson from watching someone in front of you, you're probably... Tyler’s Research on Containerized Vegetable Gardens Today, Tyler successfully defended his undergraduate research thesis, entitled ‘Invest in Vegetables: A Cost and Benefit Analysis of Container... Courting the Future Joshua Flores | Bioresource Research | McMinnville, OR | Sophomore STEM Leader Program... More News BioResource Research 158 Strand Agricultural Hall Corvallis, OR 97331 Send E-mail Phone: 541-737-2999 OSU College of Agricultural Sciences 430 Strand Agriculture Hall Corvallis, Oregon 97331 Contact Us ©2021 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Equal Opportunity and Accessibility My College of Agricultural Sciences Apply | Donate Student Resources Transfer Guides Clubs and Organizations Future Students Degrees Diversity Resources Employee Resources Funding Opportunities Safety and Compliance New Employees Orientation New Employee Information