Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box » College of Agricultural Sciences Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Employee Directory Student Success Initiative Research Outreach and Extension Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Extension Program Faculty Resources Extension Agriculture Peer Teaching Evaluation Forms Outreach Programs Units Department and Program Leaders Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Employee Directory Student Success Initiative Research Outreach and Extension Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Extension Program Faculty Resources Extension Agriculture Peer Teaching Evaluation Forms Outreach Programs Units Department and Program Leaders Animal Sciences BS The multiple facets of animal sciences provide current information on the different production methods involved in the care and management of companion animals, livestock, and poultry. These facets address the production of meat, milk, eggs, wool, and other animal services such as companionship, work, and recreation. In addition, the department addresses the care/wellbeing of animals as it impacts and enhances the human-animal bond. Essential to this information is the knowledge generated from the field of animal behavior/bioethics, genetics, nutrition, reproduction, and physiology. The curriculum designates university and departmental requirements for the BS degree in Animal Sciences. There are five specialized program options students can choose to pursue: Animal Behavior, Animal BioHealth/Pre-Professional, Animal Production, Equine, and Rangeland Sciences. Diverse teaching and research programs allow students to gain skills, knowledge, and practical experience. This will prepare students graduating from the program to pursue an assortment of employment opportunities. Potential employment areas may include farm and ranch management; product quality assessment of meat, poultry, eggs, and milk; the Cooperative Extension Service; sales or technical service with commercial feed, seed, and chemical companies and pharmaceutical firms; agricultural loan officer positions; government agency positions at local, state, and federal levels; animal welfare auditing; animal behavior consulting; business management; and journalism, mass media, and public policy. In addition, students are prepared to go on to advanced studies in animal sciences, veterinary medicine, pharmacy school, human medicine, nursing school, dental school, and education. Options: Animal Behavior Animal BioHealth/Pre-Professional Animal Production Equine Rangeland Sciences Learning Outcomes: Student Learning Outcome 1: Students will be able to recall, integrate and apply essential core information about the key components of Animal Production. As part of the Animal Sciences curriculum, students are required to focus part of their attention on the production systems of two different species, which include all of our traditional commodities and companion animals. While the production of each species requires different methods, this outcome will address understanding of production methods in general terms because each student completes a different series of production classes. Student Learning Outcome 2: Students will be able to recall, integrate and apply essential core information about the key components of Animal Reproduction. Reproduction is a basic part of animal science. Production of traditional animal species requires knowledge, background, and understanding in both the academic and applied functions of the reproduction process. Student Learning Outcome 3: Students will be able to recall, integrate and apply essential core information about the key components of Animal Nutrition. Nutrition is a basic part of animal science. The nutrition of traditional animal species is well understood and requires knowledge, background, and understanding in both the chemistry and biochemistry, as well as the practicality of formulation animal diets. Student Learning Outcome 4: Students will be able to recall, integrate and apply essential core information about the key components of Animal Genetics and Breeding. Genetics is a basic part of animal science. Understanding the basics of genetics and the consequences of breeding are an important part of the overall production of traditional animal species and requires knowledge, background, and understanding in both the molecular and applied functions of genetics and breeding. Student Learning Outcome 5: Students will be able to recall, integrate and apply essential core information about the ethical and behavioral components of Animal Production. In recent years, the worldview of animals has changed dramatically. Understanding the behavior of traditional animal species and the ethical implications of production methods of these species is critical as students move into industry. Learn more: For more information, contact Dodi Reesman, Departmental Head Advisor for Animal and Rangeland Sciences. Degree: Animal Sciences Level: Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Department: Department of Animal and Rangeland Sciences Class Location: Corvallis Campus Corvallis Campus Degree Requirements - OSU Catalog Contact Info College of Agricultural Sciences Oregon State University Corvallis, Oregon 97331 For questions or feedback about our college or website, please Contact Us. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram