College of Agricultural Sciences Apply Now College of Agricultural Sciences Apply Now College of Agricultural Sciences Apply Now About Dean’s Office Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Strategic Plan Events Stories of Impact College Awards Where You’ll Find Us Join Our Team Departments Agricultural Biology Agricultural and Resource Economics Animal Sciences Horticulture and Landscape Architecture Soil and Crop Sciences Degrees and Programs Research and Engagement Agricultural Experiment Station Research Centers Future Students Current Students Student Success Team Jobs and Internships Clubs and Committees Student Teams Alumni and Friends Search Contact × × Your browser does not support the video tag. Come to the Table Together, through transformative educational experiences, innovative research and meaningful partnerships, the College of Agricultural Sciences meets global challenges in food safety, food security, wellness and economic prosperity through the sustainable use of natural resources. Connect with the College of Agricultural Sciences Start Your ApplicationSchedule Your Custom Visit Day Browse Our Academic Programs Leaf icon Search By Interest Search for degrees by Interest World globe icon Search By Impact Search for degrees by Impact Professional woman icon Search By Careers Search for degrees by Careers Graduation cap icon Search By All Search for degrees by All 5 Departments From solving the global hunger crisis to leading the fight against climate change, the College of Agricultural Sciences is shaping the future of our world – near and far. View Departments Agricultural Biology View AgBio Details Agricultural and Resource Economics View DARE Details Animal Sciences View AnSci Details Horticulture and Landscape Architecture View HLA Details Soil and Crop Sciences View SOCR Details Calling All Change-Makers Colorado State University College of Agricultural Sciences has a seat at the table for all students, faculty and partners who want to become global change-makers. We are connecting your meaningful lived-experiences to agricultural innovation and optimizing our impact to our global community. Stories of Impact Kevin Larson Failure isn’t permanent if it’s on the road to success. For Kevin Larson, superintendent and research scientist at CSU’s Plainsman... Linc Thomas It’s often said that what you get out of college is only as great as what you put in. For Linc Thomas, senior horticulture major in... Research and Engagement to Impact the World It is our land-grant mission to feed the world while we improve it. We are committed to building community through innovative research, collaborating with partners, nurturing students and providing enriching learning experiences. We develop our research projects and outreach goals to achieve the greatest impact for our students, citizens and global community. Learn About Research and Engagement What’s New from Our Ag Family Animal Sciences researchers partner with American Hereford Association on sustainable genetics research Colorado State University researchers are partnering with the American Hereford Association to support cattle producers and the beef industry in finding sustainable solutions to environmental and economic challenges. The post Animal Sciences researchers partner with American Hereford Association on sustainable genetics research appeared first on College of Agricultural Sciences. CSU researcher finds fighting white-nose syndrome in bats benefits agriculture The disease is devastating to both the animals and producers, costing U.S. agriculture up to $495 million each year. The post CSU researcher finds fighting white-nose syndrome in bats benefits agriculture appeared first on College of Agricultural Sciences. Come to the Table Become part of our agricultural community and experience hands-on learning while building relationships. Bring your creativity, ideas and lived experiences. Leave with the confidence to collectively solve the grand challenges of sustaining our natural resources and feeding the world. Apply NowSchedule a Visit Experience DEPARTMENTS Agricultural Biology Agricultural & Resource Economics Animal Sciences Horticulture & Landscape Architecture Soil & Crop Sciences AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION RESEARCH CENTERS Agricultural Research, Development & Education Center Arkansas Valley Research Center Eastern Colorado Research Center Plainsman Research Center Plant Growth Facilities San Luis Valley Research Center Southwestern Colorado Research Center Western Colorado Research Center CONTACT 301 University Ave. Colorado State University Fort Collins, CO 80523-1101 Phone: 970-491-6274 Fax: 970-491-4895 Dean's Office Intranet Portal NUTRIEN AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES BUILDING GIVE NOW Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Follow Employment | Equal Opportunity | Privacy Statement | Accessibility Statement | Disclaimer © 2022 Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523 USA