Skip to main content Search Field Search Exit Search College of Agricultural Sciences Open search box Apply MyCAS Education Find Your Major Clubs + Orgs Careers Experiential learning Get Involved Scholarships Español Research Research Overview Research & Experiment Stations Centers and Institutes OAES Staff OAES History Outreach Outreach Overview Experiment Stations Extension Programs Statewides About Our Strategic Advantage Affiliations Climate, Diversity and Inclusion CDI in the News College to develop a Strategic Action Plan for Inclusive Excellence Subscribe to the CDI Newsletter College Leadership Departments + Programs News + Awards + Accolades Home Oregon State University COVID-19 Information Welcome We are committed to seeking a critical balance between production and conservation, dedicated each day to one unifying purpose Make Tomorrow Better We are the College of Agricultural Sciences As the founding College of Oregon State University, for more than 150 years we have lived out our land-grant mission in education, research, and outreach. With renowned faculty working across interdisciplinary sciences, we partner with leading industries and organizations across the state and around the world to provide our students with hands-on opportunities to make a difference. The research we lead impacts the health of our critical natural resources and ecosystems, innovates better understanding of food systems and access to food, improves the resilience and competitiveness of our agricultural communities, and advances entrepreneurial ideas that change the way we grow and develop food to meet the needs of a growing and diverse population. We invite you to learn more about our mission, our work, and our people—in Oregon and around the world. about us study here climate, diversity and inclusion Living Out Our Land Grant Mission staci-simonich-600x900.jpg Oregon State University names Staci Simonich to lead College of Agricultural Sciences Staci Simonich, a nationally recognized researcher and faculty member who has held numerous leadership positions at Oregon State University over two decades, has been named dean of the university’s College of Agricultural Sciences and director of the Oregon Agricultural Experiment Station. As dean, she is also appointed the Reub A. Long Professor. Simonich will start as the first woman to serve as dean of the college on March 28. She has served as acting dean of the college since March 1 and as executive associate dean for nearly two years. From 2018 to 2020, she served as associate vice president for OSU research operations and integrity. Read more adam-ward_headshot.png Dr. Adam Ward Named New Department Head for Biological and Ecological Engineering Following an exhaustive national search, Oregon State University’s College of Agricultural Sciences has named Dr. Adam Ward as the department head for Biological and Ecological Engineering (BEE). Ward joins OSU from the O’Neill School of Public and Environmental Affairs at Indiana University where he has served as Associate Professor since 2019. He holds a PhD from Penn State University in Civil Engineering and is currently finishing a Fulbright Fellowship in Birmingham, England studying rivers as part of earth’s critical zone, working to better manage rivers to balance societal and natural functions. Read more cas_annual_report_2021-sq600.png 2021 Annual Report For more than 150 years, we have stood at the crossroads of conservation and production, innovating new ways to advance the future of agriculture and natural resources. We partner with industries and communities each day to help the economy and all people thrive. While 2021 continued to present challenges, it also revealed new opportunities. Now more than ever, we are committed to our tireless pursuit to make tomorrow better. Read Report Top Story Study provides long-term look at ways to control wildfire in sagebrush steppe ecosystem New research led by an Oregon State University scientist provides the first long-term study of methods to control the spread of wildfire in the... On the Wing: The East End's Most Controversial Bird Susan Haig, a professor of wildlife ecology at Oregon State University, has been studying the plover for decades. She says the presence of... Oregon State University Art about Agriculture exhibit to visit Corvallis, Baker City, Newport Art About Agriculture’s annual exhibition of agriculture and natural resource-themed artwork by Oregon... Oregon Sea Grant awards $1.15 million to OSU researchers for marine-related projects Ford Evans, College of Agricultural Sciences: Feeding seaweed to sea urchins that are collected from the wild and farmed in tanks to fatten them... More News Our College by the Numbers Our College by the Numbers Faces of AgSci "I originally chose business administration as my major because I was unsure of where to go in my career choice. However, I chose to take SUS 103 which was an introduction to climate change. This course changed my perspective and gave me a passion that I wanted to find out more about." - Erica Sequoia Baker, Business Administration , Sustainability more student stories bizofsus-foas.jpg We Are Out There With 14 branch experiment stations and extension services in all 36 counties, the College of Agricultural Sciences is embedded in communities not just in Oregon, but across the nation and the world. Our Strategic Advantage Coastal Food Systems + Conservation Food Innovation For Health, Markets And Access Agricultural Competitiveness + Resilience Working And Natural Landscapes OSU College of Agricultural Sciences 430 Strand Agriculture Hall Corvallis, Oregon 97331 Contact Us ©2021 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Equal Opportunity and Accessibility My College of Agricultural Sciences Apply | Donate Student Resources Transfer Guides Clubs and Organizations Future Students Degrees Diversity Resources Employee Resources Funding Opportunities Safety and Compliance New Employees Orientation New Employee Information