Skip to main content Search Field Search Exit Search College of Agricultural Sciences » Department of Agricultural Education and Agricultural Sciences Open search box Apply MyCAS About Degrees Undergraduate Agricultural Sciences Major Our Graduate Degrees Partnerships & Programs Forms & Resources People Newsletter Advising Degrees Undergraduate Agricultural Sciences Major Undergraduate Agricultural Sciences Major Pave Your Own Path The Agricultural Sciences major gives you the freedom to design your own degree! As part of the degree program, you can choose from various agricultural-based credits and electives. You can go broad with exposure to all areas of agriculture, go deep within two or more emphasis areas — or do a combination of both. Interested in agriculture? Looking for a flexible major that allows you to design your own academic path? Then majoring in agricultural sciences is a great fit for you! Our major allows you to customize your degree and take courses from different areas throughout our College of Agricultural Sciences. The agricultural sciences major allows our students to create a purposeful course plan, crossing several areas of study, to meet their individual career goals. With a degree in Agricultural Sciences, you can get a wide-ranging education that covers agriculture production, agribusiness, leadership, agricultural communications, resource management, and environmental/sustainability issues. Students use this major to prepare to return to their family operation, teach agriculture, develop agricultural communications materials, work in Extension, go into industry, sell equipment/insurance, or work for state or federal agricultural programs. Not to mention, if you’re interested in becoming an agriculture/natural resources teacher, an Agricultural Sciences degree is an ideal first step. It allows you to integrate the breadth of agricultural-based prerequisite courses required for the Masters of Agricultural Education graduate/licensure program. Find Your Path: Our undergraduate degree in Agricultural Sciences is offered on the Corvallis Campus, Extended Campus (Ecampus), and Eastern Oregon University in LaGrande, Oregon. Online Path Gives You Additional Options: Want even more flexibility? You can complete an Agricultural Sciences degree online through Ecampus, OSU’s accredited distance learning program. If you’re already working on a farm or ranch, the online degree is a great way to complete your education. Even if you’re a student on campus, you can take Agricultural Sciences classes online for increased flexibility in course scheduling. See Ecampus’ Schedule of Classes for lists per term of the variety of classes offered online. Options: The Agricultural Education & Agricultural Sciences major is an integrated major, allowing students to select courses from across all departments in the College of Agriculture. Students may pursue an Agricultural Education track, agricultural sciences and natural resources communications track, comparative international agriculture track, leadership track, or design their own theme-based curriculum using their major electives. The Comparative International Agriculture minor pairs well with this major. Students study, intern abroad, or focus on international aspects of agriculture. The Leadership minor also prepares students for community-based agricultural pursuits, responsible and sustainable contributions in the field of Agriculture. The Agricultural Sciences & Natural Resources Communications minor prepares students for careers in communications and public service roles in the agricultural, natural resources, forestry, and environmental sciences disciplines. This minor allows for students who may be well-versed in the technical knowledge of their science-based agriculture or natural resources discipline to effectively communicate vital information about agriculture and natural resources to a multitude of audiences through many modes of communications such as visual, written, oral, and podcasting! Agricultural Education & Agricultural Sciences majors cannot also minor in Agricultural Sciences, but students from any other OSU major may do so. Learning Outcomes: Understanding of major agricultural themes and issues, domestically and worldwide Analyze the effectiveness of agricultural practices, sustainability issues and global agricultural movements and trends. Understanding of the effect of broad social, economic, and environmental forces upon the agricultural industry. Leadership and communication skills in agricultural communities throughout the U.S. and beyond. Career Paths: Future careers may include agriculture production, agribusiness, agricultural communications positions, resource management, and environmental/sustainability issues, as well as education, communication and other paths of your own choosing. Here are a few position titles our awesome alumni hold after completing their Agricultural Sciences degree: -Rangeland Management Specialist -Agricultural Teacher -Rancher/Farmer -Extension Agent -Communications Director -Agriculture Literacy Coordinator -Lobbyist -Agribusiness Credit Analyst -Marketing Manager -Crop Health Technician -Environmental Specialist -Agronomist -Food Safety and Compliance Manager Learn more: For more information on how to declare and begin working towards a degree in Agricultural Sciences, go to the advising page! Degree: Agricultural Sciences Level: Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Department: Department of Agricultural Education and Agricultural Sciences Class Location: Corvallis Campus La Grande Campus Ecampus (Online) Contact Us: For more information contact, Dawn Moyer, adviser for Agricultural Sciences La Grande Campus Ecampus Degree Requirements - OSU Catalog OSU College of Agricultural Sciences 430 Strand Agriculture Hall Corvallis, Oregon 97331 Contact Us ©2021 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer Equal Opportunity and Accessibility My College of Agricultural Sciences Apply | Donate Student Resources Transfer Guides Clubs and Organizations Future Students Degrees Diversity Resources Employee Resources Funding Opportunities Safety and Compliance New Employees Orientation New Employee Information