Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quick Links Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Advising Graduate Students Graduate Advising Faculty Staff Alumni UC Riverside School of Business A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management Search About Our School Our Dean Our Impacts Our Distinctions Our Faculty Our Staff Our Location Programs Graduate School (AGSM) Graduate Programs Master of Business Administration Professional MBA Master of Finance Master of Professional Accountancy Master of Science in Business Analytics Career Development Center Current Students Undergraduate Undergraduate Program Actuarial Science Major Business Major Business Minor Current Students Ph.D. Program Faculty & Research Faculty Accounting Finance Information Systems Management Marketing Operations & Supply Chain Management Research News Teaching and Innovation Awards Center for Economic Forecasting & Development Behavioral Lab Alumni & Partners Recruit Executive Fellows Dean's Speaker Series Dean's Advisory Council Signature Events Alumni Invest Support the School of Business Ways to Give Contact us News & Events News Business News Research News Newsletter Blog Events Events Signature Events Publications UCR Home Quick Links Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Advising Graduate Students Graduate Advising Faculty Staff Alumni A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management Master of Business Administration (MBA) Professional MBA Master of Finance Master of Professional Accountancy Master of Science in Business Analytics Ph.D. Program Attend An Event Start Your Application Connect With Us A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management Educating leaders, innovators and scholars who are as diverse as the challenges they face, the workforces they lead, and the enterprises they grow. With a nationally-ranked and internationally-recognized MBA program, the AACSB-accredited A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management (AGSM) at the UCR School of Business is one of the fastest-growing graduate business schools in Southern California, shaping the future by developing leading thinkers who will stand at the forefront of business growth. Top 100 BEST GRADUATE BUSINESS SCHOOLS - U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT, 2023 590 ENROLLED STUDENTS 36 COUNTRIES REPRESENTED 5 STEM-DESIGNATED DEGREE PROGRAMS All graduate programs are STEM-designated degree programs (science, technology, engineering and math). International students in a STEM-designated program are eligible for 36 months of Optional Practical Training (OPT) to work in the United States in their field of study after graduation. As a response to the unique global impact caused by the COVID-19 coronavirus, and an effort to support our prospective students, the University of California, Riverside A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management will alter the admissions requirements to include a test-optional admissions process. For more information on AGSM’s admissions criteria, please visit our Admissions page. Graduate Admissions ________________________________________________ Resources Admissions Career Development Center Connect with Grad Student Ambassadors Master of Business Administration Professional MBA Master of Finance Master of Professional Accountancy Master of Science in Business Analytics Ph.D. Program Current Students Get ahead with a graduate degree from UCR Business: Master of Business Administration The two-year STEM-designated Master of Business Administration (MBA) program offers endless opportunities to tailor your learning experience to your professional aspirations and personal passions. Program format: Full-time, on campus & weekends Time to complete: 21 months Average work experience: 31 months Average age: 27 MBA Program Professional MBA Designed with a highly flexible curriculum and convenient evening and weekend course options, the Professional MBA is the ideal part-time STEM-designated program for individuals who want to build their skills without interrupting their careers. Students enrolled in the Professional MBA program also have the flexibility to enroll in classes throughout the day and complete the program on a full-time basis. Program format: Part-time, full-time, on campus & weekends Time to complete: At your own pace or within 21 months Average age: 27 Professional MBA Master of Finance Build a career in the world of finance as a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA), Certified Financial Planner (CFP) or as a member of the Global Association of Risk Professionals (GARP). UCR's STEM-designated Master of Finance program provides the essentials for becoming a leader in financial management across organizations and industries. Program format: Full-time or part-time, on campus Time to complete: 9 months, 15 months, or at your pace Average work experience: 10 months Average age: 25 Finance Program Master of Professional Accountancy Build your career in accounting through advanced education in audit and assurance, taxation, accounting information systems and ethics. UCR's STEM-designated Master of Professional Accountancy prepares you to take the lead in financial accountability, auditing and assurance for national and international businesses. Program format: Full-time, part-time, on campus Time to complete: 9 months, 15 months, or at your pace Average work experience: 26 months Average age: 28 Accounting Program Master of Science in Business Analytics Build a career in the growing and important field of business analytics. UCR’s STEM-designated graduate degree in business analytics will bring your business acumen and statistical computing skills to a level that allows you to make the most of vast business data. Program format: Full-time or part-time, on campus Time to complete: 9 months, 15 months, or at your own pace Average work experience: 20 months Average age: 26 Business Analytics Program Featured Articles April 28, 2022 UCR Student Teams Take Home Victories in Business Competitions Recently, the UCR School of Business fielded successful teams in case competitions displaying both business acumen and competitive determination: At the inaugural UC Davis Graduate School of Management Case Study Competition on April 1 and 2, one of the two... Read More » March 30, 2022 Women in Business Panel Discussion The UCR Business Graduate Programs Office hosted a panel of MBA alumni and student leaders in a roundtable discussion about women in the workplace. Topics ranged from inclusion to managing change to supporting and mentoring other women. On Inclusion: Victoria... Read More » March 24, 2022 Making History for a Better Future When she was growing up, Victoria Guidry never heard much encouragement about going to college. And she didn’t learn anything in high school about financial literacy. She has since learned plenty about both topics, and she is using that knowledge... Read More » March 13, 2022 Meet the UC Riverside School of Business MBA Class of 2023 This article was recently published on Poets & Quants, a premium online resource for prospective graduate business students worldwide. Also read the second part of the article "Poets & Quants: a Q&A with Dean Wang and Assoc. Dean Zwick." They’ve... Read More » Read more articles Attend an Information Session See all information sessions Graduate Events Learn more about us: Tweets by UCRAGSM Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Campus Return School of Business Anderson Hall 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-6329 Email: business@ucr.edu Find Us Graduate Business Programs 2316 Olmsted Hall Tel: (951) 827-6200 Email: ucr_agsm@ucr.edu Undergraduate Business Program 2340 Olmsted Hall Tel: (951) 827-4551 Email: undergradbusiness@ucr.edu Quick Links Related Links Graduate Business Programs (AGSM) Center for Economic Forecasting and Development Undergraduate Business Program Faculty Giving UCR Home Contact Us Follow Us: Follow AGSM: Follow Undergraduate: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel