Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Ad-Hoc African/Americanists and Affiliates College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Search form Search Home About Contact KU Stories The Office of Diversity & Equity » Diversity Outlook » Academics Courses Related Courses Research Projects People Members Affiliated Members Menu Home About Contact KU Stories The Office of Diversity & Equity » Diversity Outlook » Academics Courses Related Courses Research Projects People Members Affiliated Members Search Search form Search AHAA (Ad-hoc African / Americanists and Affiliates) is a group of English Department faculty committed to the teaching of African, African-American, and African diaspora literatures. Our goal is to foster vigorous conversations about these literatures among faculty and students within the department and beyond. We develop and coordinate relevant courses, promote diversity among our faculty and students, and make connections between the English Department and other units within the University of Kansas and the larger community for the sponsoring of multicultural events. We encourage interested students to contact any of us individually. About the Area Friendly folks. A big city vibe. Discover all that’s great about Lawrence. Lawrence, Kan. A beautiful, hilly campus is just one reason why Jayhawks fall in love with KU. Find out more. The University Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Ad-Hoc African/Americanists and Affiliates english@ku.edu 785-864-4520 Department of English 1445 Jayhawk Blvd., Room 3001 Lawrence, Kansas 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login