Menu Close Menu Skip to content Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public HealthHarvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health main site homepage Quicklinks About the School Academics Admissions Research Faculty Student Life News Alumni Frontiers Make A Gift Search for: Search Harvard AIDS Initiative Home Blog About Contact Us History Timeline Videos Slideshows People Max Essex Associated Researchers International Advisory Council Leadership Award Recipients Q&As Papers Papers Chronologically Papers by Topic Research Botswana Harvard Partnership Botswana Summer Internships Fogarty HIV Research Training Program Spotlight Archive Harvard AIDS Initiative Research • Education • Leadership HAI is dedicated to research, education and leadership to end the AIDS epidemic in Africa and developing countries. For over 25 years, HAI has been at the forefront of HIV/AIDS laboratory research, clinical trials, education, and leadership. Training students, researchers, and health professionals is vital to HAI’s mission. Education and training opportunities at Harvard and in Africa help create a network of experts to direct the next generation of public health leaders. HAI also partners with government agencies, NGOs, research centers, and private corporations to develop initiatives that advance the understanding and treatment of HIV/AIDS. Botswana Harvard Partnership Established in 1996, the Botswana Harvard AIDS Institute Partnership (BHP) is a collaborative research and training initiative between the Government of Botswana and HAI. Research areas include virology, molecular biology, immunology, genetics, epidemiology, and social and behavioral issues relevant to the AIDS epidemic in southern Africa. Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website