Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home A to Z Listing Campus Map Search UC Riverside Committee on HIV/AIDS Get Tested. Practice Prevention. Access Resources. Search Home Get Tested Prevention Access Resources The Committee Weis: In Memoriam UCR Home A to Z Listing Campus Map Get Tested. Practice Prevention. Access Resources. We can all take action to educate, raise awareness, be safe, and care for ourselves and others in response to HIV/AIDS. Throughout this site, you can develop the knowledge and tools necessary to make a difference on campus and in the community. More than 1.1 million Americans are living with HIV and an estimated 51 percent of young adults (ages 13–24) who are infected don't know they have it. HIV is silent. It shows no immediate symptoms. It's for life. There is no cure. HIV is transmitted through high-risk behaviors, such as unprotected sex or intravenous (IV) drug use. The virus invades the body's T cells (white blood cells that fight infection) and gradually weakens the immune system. This can lead to the most advanced — and deadliest — stage of HIV: Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). Nearly 40,000 new infections occurred in the United States in 2017. (Source: CDC.gov) There are over 9,000 people living with HIV in Riverside County. (Source: rivcohivaids.org) You can take can take steps to protect yourself — and others — by practicing prevention, getting tested, and accessing treatment and wellness resources. You don’t have to do it alone. We’re here to help, every step of the way. Who's at Risk? HIV can affect anyone, regardless of age, ethnicity/race, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression or socioeconomic status. Even unborn children can be infected. You are only at risk if you are exposed to someone who is HIV-positive (HIV+). Some populations are considered at higher risk for HIV/AIDS: Men who have sex with other men Transgender women who have sex with men Black/African American Latino/Chicano IV drug user Men who have sex with other men, particularly those among the Black/African-American population, are most affected by HIV. (Source: HIV.gov) Stand Up Against Stigma The negative, unfair beliefs surrounding HIV/AIDS prevent people from getting tested, practicing prevention, sharing their status with a partner or seeking treatment. The stigma makes us all vulnerable, but together we can stand up against it and save lives! Talk openly about testing, prevention and treatment. Encourage others to access campus/community resources. Support those living with HIV/AIDS. Before engaging in sexual activity with a new partner(s): Discuss your sexual/drug-use history. Get tested. Disclose your status if you know it or think you’ve been exposed to HIV. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Student Health and Wellness 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 email: webmaster@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Advocacy, Resources and Education (CARE) Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Student Affairs Case Management Student Disability Resource Center (SDRC) LGBT Resource Center Student Health Services (SHS) The WELL Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel