Academic and Student Affairs Think and Do The Extraordinary Support Student Success Air Force ROTC MAIN MENU Primary Menu Skip to content Our Detachment Fast Facts How to Join Detachment 595 Cadre About Air Force ROTC Contact Us Starve Alone, Feast Together Welcome to the home of the WOLFPACK WARRIORS! Our program currently stands at 90 cadets, but will range up and down between 70 to 120 cadets. This is a great size as it is big enough to create an effective command structure yet still small enough so there is a personal relationship with each cadet. You are not just a number. By the end of your first semester, everyone knows everyone else as you are now a part of our new family. This outreach gives you access to all ranges of people across several academic majors and vertically within a major. Need a tutor or a mentor? There is almost always a fellow cadet who can help you. Need higher physical endurance? Your peers become your new extended brothers and sisters who will push you beyond your limits to excel. How do we foster leadership? Numerous opportunities to lead, mentor, and follow within all of our activities and training events. One facet of our system utilizes individual evaluation. This means several times each semester you and your flight commander will meet to discuss your performance. This is the time we discuss areas of excellence and improvement along with suggestions on how to do so. We do not expect perfection on day one, instead we will provide you all the tools to succeed. Do not be fooled, this is a challenging program! The intense focus on teamwork, leadership, followership, and communication will not be easy, but it is worth it. We create an environment that enables you to mature and grow into leaders who do not back down from the challenge. Our facilities are located in Reynolds Coliseum on North Carolina State University’s Main Campus. We maintain four rooms in Reynolds, our main office for the Cadre staff, our Air Force classroom for all class lectures, our Wing Study Lounge for quiet studying and our Cadet Training Room (CTR). Our CTR doubles as a meeting room and lounge where cadet business can be carried out as well a hangout for leisure activities. Cadets can spend some time studying, relaxing, enjoying snacks from the Arnold Air Society Snack Bar or honing their flying skills on the flight simulator. We maintain our own game systems, computers, and Foosball tables for cadet use. Periodically the cadets hold social functions in the CTR to foster relationships and build camaraderie within the cadet wing. There is a Foosball rankings board where cadets of all skill levels work their way to the top and, of course, there is the occasional Foosball tournament! Active Duty Involvement Our Cadre consists of Active Duty Officers who range from Captains to Lieutenant Colonels who rotate into AFROTC as part of their career broadening choice. We also have a varying number of Non-Commissioned Officers (NCOs) who assist in numerous ways throughout Detachment activities and also handle all the cadets personnel files. Our Cadre members come from many different career fields and different backgrounds bringing some unique experience and insight to the cadets. Their jobs focus on preparing us as future officers and ensuring the quality of our training and experience. Detachment History Detachment 595 draws its roots from the very beginning of NC State University. At the start of the University, participation in Army ROTC, or Military Sciences, was required for all male students during their first two years of enrollment from 1894. Air Force ROTC became its own branch of ROTC at NC State in 1949 and became one of the three options for males’ military service. The unit officially became AFROTC Detachment 595 on 1 August 1952. This mandatory tradition lasted until 1965 when ROTC participation became voluntary to fall in line with the national decision of a complete volunteer force. Each year we commission another set of Air Force officers adding to the legacy of Det 595. We pride ourselves on the numerous graduates who go on to lead very distinguished careers in the Air Force. There is no doubt the training you receive from Det 595 will help you excel to reach unimaginable heights. Air Force ROTC Reynolds Coliseum 2411 Dunn Ave Room 135E Campus Box 7308 Raleigh, NC 27695 airforce-rotc@ncsu.edu 919.515.2417 Email US Air Force US Space Force Air Force Recruiting Air Force ROTC Holm Center About Air Force ROTC Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Website Feedback Privacy and Security Notice and (FOIA) Freedom of Information Act Search for: Website Last Updated CAO: 14 Feb 2022 © 2022 Air Force ROTC | Log in