Skip To Content Skip To Navigation University of Notre Dame Office of the Provost College of Arts and Letters Menu Search Search Contact Calendar Home Discover About Academics Advising Careers News Study everything. Do anything. Find your passion. Create knowledge. Serve the common good. Prepare for life. Where can Arts and Letters take you? Three summer experiences — in government, research, and consulting — help senior economics major find the perfect career path Read more How sociology, Spanish, and the liberal arts prepared Mikaela Ramsey for a career in education Read more Video: 2022 Arts and Letters graduates reflect on their liberal arts education Read more Latest News May 26, 2022 Psychologists research how COVID pivot affected students and faculty at more than 80 universities Even after accounting for demographic variables (gender, race/ethnicity, parental educational attainment), researchers found that undergraduate students who reported greater pandemic-induced stress tended to have greater test anxiety and were less confident in their computer skills. May 25, 2022 Dinah Lawan '22 awarded prize for paper exploring strategic peace-building in Nigeria Dinah Lawan won the 2022 Gary F. Barnabo Political Science Writing Prize for the best paper about a current national or global issue that provides a plan for specific action and a nonviolent resolution. Lawan recommended a peacebuilding approach to effectively dismantle Boko Haram, which has has killed more than 350,000 people in Nigeria. May 23, 2022 Four 2022 grads share how Romance languages and literatures enriched their lives Irma Ibarra, who spoke Spanish and English when she arrived in South Bend, majored in Italian, studied in Rome, took Beginning French, and wishes she had taken a Portuguese course. Studying French helped Kyle Dorshorst gain a deeper appreciation of French music, literature, art, and culture. Maria Teel loved that her language skills could bridge gaps between people, including at the Mandela Washington Fellowship for Young African Leaders. When Fouad El Zoghbi came to Notre Dame, he spoke French, English, and Arabic. Then he studied Spanish. Learning a new language, he said, expands your mind in unimaginable ways. More News Discover See what the College of Arts and Letters is all about. Learn more Arts and Letters on Social Media YouTube Majors in the College of Arts & Letters Twitter @ArtsLettersND Graduate Education Explore our master's and Ph.D programs. Learn more Answers to Frequent Questions When is the Arts and Letters diploma ceremony? What can I do with an Arts and Letters degree? How do I declare a major? Who is my adviser? Who is my director of undergraduate studies? What is the deadline to drop a class? How do I apply to Notre Dame? What graduate programs are available in Arts and Letters? What is College Seminar? How do I fund my research? How do I fund my internship? How do I start planning my senior thesis? Where do alumni go after a year of full-time service work? Home Discover About Academics Advising Careers News For Staff For Faculty Faculty Directory Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame College of Arts and Letters 100 O’Shaughnessy Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Phone 574.631.7085 alweb@nd.edu Twitter YouTube Facebook Instagram Accessibility Information