Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Alcohol and KU Search form Search Home About Contact Us Letter from the Chancellor Alcohol Facts Alcohol Laws Alcohol Policies Alcohol Statistics Other Drug Information AlcoholEdu Course Instructions FAQ's Technical Support eCHECKUP TO GO Drinking Responsibly Protective Behaviors Risky Behaviors Party Hosting Alternatives to Drinking Resources For Parents For Faculty & Staff Menu Home About Contact Us Letter from the Chancellor Alcohol Facts Alcohol Laws Alcohol Policies Alcohol Statistics Other Drug Information AlcoholEdu Course Instructions FAQ's Technical Support eCHECKUP TO GO Drinking Responsibly Protective Behaviors Risky Behaviors Party Hosting Alternatives to Drinking Resources For Parents For Faculty & Staff Search Search form Search What is a standard drink? Learn more about it on our Alcohol Facts page. Learn more about how the Jayhawk Buddy System can help you stay safe. Learn more about how you can party responsibly. Letter from the Chancellor Like universities nationwide, KU is not immune to the problem of excessive alcohol consumption by students. Excessive alcohol consumption has killed college students, and it can kill you. I hope all students and families will do their part to make our university community safe and healthy, in part by using the resources presented on this site. Here you can find out about the excellent resources available at KU to help you, your friends, or loved ones with information related to alcohol or other drugs. Students also can call the Health Education Resource Office at 785-864-9570 to take advantage of the assistance that is available (read more...). About the Area Friendly folks. A big city vibe. Discover all that’s great about Lawrence. Lawrence, Kan. A beautiful, hilly campus is just one reason why Jayhawks fall in love with KU. Find out more. The University Why KU Apply » One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times KU Today Give to KU » Contact Alcohol and KU health@ku.edu 785-864-9500 Routes 27, 38, 42 Watkins Health Services 1200 Schwegler Drive Lawrence, KS 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login