Skip to Content Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close CU Boulder Alerts CU Boulder Alerts Menu Mobile menu Text Message FAQ Keyword Opt-In FAQ Student Step-by-Step Guide Employee Step-by-Step Guide Alertus Desktop Alert FAQ Alertus Recipient App FAQ Guardian FAQ In case of emergency, make sure you get the message. Home Be Aware. Be Ready. Be Boulder. Be in the know. Know what to do. Keep your emergency notification information up-to-date for real-time information about campus closures, extreme weather and other emergencies—sent straight to your mobile via our text messaging service. In the case of campus emergencies, this website will be updated with community information as soon as it is available, usually within 15 to 20 minutes of the first text message alert. The University of Colorado Boulder is committed to providing timely warnings and/or emergency notifications for situations that represent a serious or continuing threat to the campus community. For detailed information on when timely warnings and emergency notifications are issued, please see the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report. User Sign-Up CU Boulder students, you are automatically registered using your @colorado.edu email address. We ask that you add a mobile number during course registration periods and update as needed in Buff Portal. Instructions on how to do so can be found here. CU Boulder faculty and staff, you are automatically registered using your @colorado.edu email address. Manage your mobile alerts number, and update as needed in your MyCUInfo portal. Instructions on how to do so can be found here. CU Boulder partners with @cu.edu, @cufund.org, @cusys.edu, @ucdenver.edu or @cuanschutz.edu email domains must still register and maintain their information at www.getrave.com/login/cuboulder Affiliates who are not a student, faculty or staff and do not have one of the emails domains listed above can opt in to CU Boulder Alerts to receive text alerts by texting “cuaffiliate” to 81437. CU Boulder students, faculty, staff, partners and affiliates interested in receiving safety alerts from the city of Boulder, please sign up for their emergency alerting program called Everbridge. The program uses targeted geographic areas to send alerts as needed. Other options: Boulder Police post important safety alerts on Nextdoor and Twitter under @BoulderPolice. CU Boulder Police Department is on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram; search for @CUBoulderPolice. How to Find Information in an Emergency On your cellular phone—Watch for text alerts in the case of a campus closure or if there is a threat to personal safety. On your mobile device—Receive push notifications on your mobile device and/or tablet with Alertus Recipient App. On your computer—Watch for alert popups on your computer for information regarding campus safety. Download here. On the web—Visit colorado.edu for detailed campus closure and emergency information and updates. On the phone—Call the campus info line at 303-492-INFO (4636) for recorded information and updates relating to campus alerts. By email—Check your official university email after an emergency for support and resource information. On social media—Like CU Boulder on Facebook and follow @cuboulder, @CUBoulderPolice and @cuboulderalerts on Twitter. Guardian Mobile Safety App Guardian is available to all current students, staff and faculty and provides a new method to get alerts, allow friends and family to watch over you while you are out, and find information regarding crisis support and safety resources. Visit the Guardian FAQ page for more information on how to acquire and use the app. Footer menu Text Message FAQ Keyword Opt-In FAQ Student Step-by-Step Guide Employee Step-by-Step Guide Alertus Desktop Alert FAQ Alertus Recipient App FAQ Guardian FAQ Get updates on: Twitter Facebook CU Boulder Alerts CU Boulder Police Department Emergency: 911 Non-Emergency: 303-492-6666 Emergency Management emergency.management@colorado.edu University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Privacy • Legal & Trademarks • Campus Map Return to the top of the page