Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today KU Lawrence and Edwards Campus Alerts Search form Search Home Emergency Notifications Emergency Procedures Emergency Procedures Active shooter or threat Bomb threat Bomb Threat Check Sheet Civil disturbance Suspicious package Hazardous materials Power outage Gas leak Alcohol posioning Pandemic Public health situation Suicide threat Fire Flooding Severe weather Menu Home Emergency Notifications Emergency Procedures Emergency Procedures Active shooter or threat Bomb threat Bomb Threat Check Sheet Civil disturbance Suspicious package Hazardous materials Power outage Gas leak Alcohol posioning Pandemic Public health situation Suicide threat Fire Flooding Severe weather Search Search form Search The Lawrence Campus is Open Campus open and operating normally Date posted: May 15, 2022 - 4:22pm Campus is open and operating normally. Emergency Notifications The University of Kansas utilizes a range of tools to keep students, faculty, staff and visitors informed in the event of an emergency that could affect their health and safety. These tools include text messaging, public address speakers, e-mail, the @UnivOfKansas handle on Twitter, and this page. Alerts are sent when there is an immediate threat to the campus and in situations requiring immediate action. The campus community may also receive e-mails about other types of incidents that don't necessarily require immediate action, such as when law enforcement is seeking assistance from members of the public who may have information about a crime. Text Message Alerts Students are automatically subscribed to emergency text messages and can view/edit their cell phone number at Enroll and Pay. Faculty and staff can subscribe to receive text messages and view/edit their cell phone number through the Employee Emergency Notification app at the myKU Portal. What to do in the event of ... Campus threats Active shooter or threat Bomb threat Civil disturbance Suspicious package Hazards Hazardous materials Power outage Gas leak Medical emergencies Alcohol poisoning Pandemic Public health situation Suicide threat Natural disasters Fire Flooding Severe weather Edwards Campus Alerts | KU Medical Center Alerts | Wichita Campus Alerts Sexual assault and harassment Both KU Public Safety and the Office of Institutional Opportunity and Access can investigate cases of sexual assault and harassment. In an emergency, dial 911. To reach Public Safety in non-emergency situations, call (785) 864-5900. Law enforcement KU's Public Safety Office maintains a 24-hour operation, employing commissioned law enforcement personnel, noncommissioned security officers and 911 dispatchers. Uniformed officers patrol the campus on foot, on Segways and in marked police cars. The department also monitors closed-circuit cameras located in parking lots and public areas throughout campus, including all major residence halls. The Lawrence Campus is Open Emergency numbers Police or Fire/Medical: 911 Public Safety Office: (785) 864-5900 Watkins Health Services: (785) 864-9500 Institutional Opportunity & Access: (785) 864-6414 Urgent care is an injury or illness that is not life threatening but requires immediate care. Contact Watkins Health Services at Watkins Memorial Health Center for on-campus urgent care services. Be prepared Students should keep their emergency contact information up to date through Enroll and Pay. Be aware of your surroundings. Locate emergency exits or shelters in buildings you work in or visit. In the event of severe weather, rely on local media or a NOAA weather radio for forecasts, watches and warnings from the National Weather Service. Related information Lawrence Campus Interactive Map Emergency Management Plan Environment, Health, and Safety Annual Security Report Cyber Security Report The annual security report about KU safety policies, crime statistics, and campus resources is available online at www.ku.edu/safety, or on paper by contacting the Office of the Vice Provost of Student Affairs, 133 Strong Hall, (785) 864-4060. Douglas County Emergency Management Contact KU Lawrence and Edwards Campus Alerts publicaffairs@ku.edu 785-864-7100 1450 Jayhawk Blvd, Room 230 Lawrence, KS 66045 Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login