Skip to main content Submit Search Toggle navigation Alert Carolina – UNC at Chapel Hill About Notification Archive Receive Notifications Ask Questions Alert Carolina – UNC at Chapel Hill Normal: The University is currently operating under normal conditions In the event of an alert on campus, this website will be updated frequently with instructions and information about the incident, campus services and resources available to the campus community. Remember that it may take time for authorities to investigate the situation, verify the facts and provide the campus with instructions or updates. Do not call 911 or the UNC Police Department for general information. The Alert Carolina website will provide new details as quickly as possible. In an emergency that requires immediate help, call 911. You can also use one of Carolina’s Blue Call Boxes or the Carolina Ready Safety App to report an emergency, crime or suspicious activity. Notification Types Emergency Warning Alerts campus to a confirmed significant emergency or dangerous situation involving an immediate threat to health or safety on campus. Accompanied by emergency sirens, to alert people who are outdoors. Crime Alert Notifies the campus community of any Clery Act crime as soon as the information is available so people can protect themselves and/or their property from similar crimes. Intended to inform people to be cautious, not to take immediate action, so the sirens will not sound. Adverse Conditions Issued when circumstances exist that do not represent an immediate threat to health or safety, yet action may enable people to protect themselves and/or their property. Includes adverse weather events, major campus utility outages or other situations that would require a change in the University’s normal operating status. Informational Informs campus when a situation is not an emergency or does not pose an immediate threat to the campus community, but is of significant interest to campus. Recent Notifications Adverse Weather: Tornado Watch issued May 27 at 6:31AM EDT until May 27 at 2:00PM EDT by NWS Raleigh NC Adverse Weather: Severe Thunderstorm Warning issued May 27 at 9:20AM EDT until May 27 at 10:15AM EDT by NWS Raleigh NC Adverse Weather: Severe Thunderstorm Warning issued May 27 at 8:29AM EDT until May 27 at 9:30AM EDT by NWS Raleigh NC Adverse Weather: Severe Thunderstorm Warning issued May 27 at 8:21AM EDT until May 27 at 9:15AM EDT by NWS Raleigh NC Adverse Weather: Tornado Watch issued May 27 at 6:31AM EDT until May 27 at 2:00PM EDT by NWS Raleigh NC Resources Carolina Ready Safe at UNC Red Cross Safe and Well Classroom Poster Smart 911 ERO Login Who to Contact? For emergency assistance, call UNC Police at 911 For a concern about a student, call the Dean of Students Office at 919-966-4042 For a concern about a coworker, call Employee and Management Relations in Human Resources at 919-843-3444 For confidential counseling services, call the University's Employee Assistance Program (services provided by ComPsych 24 hours a day) at 877-314-5841 Follow Alert Carolina © 2022 University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill