Skip to main content Skip to footer Allerton Park & Retreat Center Facebook Instagram TripAdvisor Linkedin Reserve Weddings Wedding Spaces Lodging Request for Information Catering Testimonials Meetings & Retreats Meeting Packages Meeting Spaces Lodging Request for Information Catering Team-building/Breakout Activities Special Occasions Event Spaces Lodging Request for Information Catering Lodging Glamping Getaway The Dome visit Event Calendar Plan Your Visit Virtual Visitor Center Park Maps Accessibility Concert Series Youth Programs Dinners/Special Events Classes & Workshops Holiday Events Showcase Vendor Application Public Tours & Hikes Virtual Mansion Tour Staff Recommendations The Gardens Public Tours The Gardens Map Classes & Workshops Bloom Calendar Natural Areas The Trails Map Public Hikes Birding Research Management Artwork Map Greenhouse Café Lodging Glamping Getaway FAQs Area Attractions discover About The History Allerton Family Robert Allerton Allerton Park Since 1946 The Future Master Plan Visitor Center Complex The Wandering Woods ALL IN for Allerton Park Blog Diversity, Inclusion, and Access Accessibility Sustainability engage Donate ALL IN for Allerton Building the Legacy Memorial & Dedicatory Gifts Sponsorship Opportunities Wish List VOLUNTEER Become a Volunteer Volunteer News Allerton Park Photography Group Elderhostel Spring Break SHOP Employment Opportunities Allerton In-Residence Spring 2022 Artists In-Residence Fall 2022 Artist-in-Residence Program Past Residents connect Contact Since 1946 ENEWS Staff Main Content Live Peony Garden Updates Join Allerton staff at 9 a.m. Thursdays for Facebook Live ... 02 Jun 9:00 am - 9:15 am View Detail LOVE FOR ALLerton Come out to the Gatehouse Lawn from 6-9 p.m. on ... 03 Jun 6:00 pm - 9:00 pm View Detail Stretch & Sip Yoga Enjoy a soothing moment of meditation in the Meadow as ... 04 Jun 10:00 am - 11:30 am The Meadow REGISTER No event found! [see all events] GIVE TO ALLERTON Book Your Stay The Mansion The former home of artist and philanthropist Robert Allerton was completed in 1900. The House in the Woods The House in the Woods, built in 1917 to house Robert Allerton’s gardening staff, is tucked into a secluded alcove in the Park. The Gate House Originally built in 1902 as the head gardener’s residence, the Gate House has six guest rooms. The Evergreen Lodge The Evergreen Lodge was built by the University of Illinois in the late 1960s to meet the increased need for accommodations at Allerton. Footer Facebook Instagram TripAdvisor Linkedin 515 Old Timber Road Monticello, Illinois 61856 217 333 3287 allertoninfo@illinois.edu CONNECT Contact Event Policies eNews Archive Staff Photog Credits Sign up for Allerton news Click to Subscribe University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Copyright © 2022 · allerton on Genesis Framework · WordPress · Log in x