Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Allgeier Research Group myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home The Allgeier Group Select to follow link Dr. Alan M. Allgeier Post-docs & Research Associates Graduate Students Undergraduate Students RET and REU Researchers Alumni Research Select to follow link Continuous Manufacturing Catalysis & Reaction Porous Media Ethanol Derivatives Works Select to follow link Recent Publications Presentations Techniques Gallery Sponsors & Partners Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Allgeier Research Group Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search We are thrilled to share our latest achievements and future prospects. Rock Chalk! Our Vision The Allgeier Research Group embraces the role of Chemical Engineering in delivering essential innovations to improve sustainability. The UN World Commission on Environment and Development provided a guiding definition: “sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.” Contributing to the goals of sustainability, The Allgeier Research Group seeks to: 1) develop fundamental understanding of heterogeneous catalysts and processes to efficiently use renewable resources and existing fossil fuel resources, 2) advance the ongoing revolution in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals by continuous manufacturing and 3) develop innovative characterization methods for sustainable porous materials for both biomedical and industrial applications. The Allgeier Research Group, Spring 2019 Graduate and Undergraduate researchers of the Allgeier Group at the University of Kansas in the Spring of 2019. Meet the Team LinkedIn Profile Academic Profile Dr. Alan M. Allgeier Dr. Alan M. Allgeier joined The University of Kansas in Chemical and Petroleum Engineering (CPE) as an associate professor in the Fall of 2017 after 20 years in industry, split between the pharmaceutical and chemical industries. Currently, he has a joint appointment with both the Department of Chemical and Petroleum Engineering and the Center for Environmentally Beneficial Catalysis (CEBC). Dr. Allgeier received his B.S. Chemistry from Case Western Reserve University (Cleveland, Ohio) and subsequently obtained his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Inorganic Chemistry from Northwestern University (Evanston, Illinois). He has garnered recognitions during his career, including the 1994 Sigma Xi Award at Northwestern University for excellence in graduate research, being elected to Chair the Organic Reactions Catalysis Society from 2008-2010, the 2011 Amgen (internal) Green Chemistry Award and in 2014, he was selected as the Russell Malz Awardee for Service to Catalysis from the Organic Reactions Catalysis Society. Dr. Allgeier began his professional career with DuPont in 1997, first as a post-doc and then as Senior Research Chemist focusing on heterogeneous catalysis and three-phase reactions for production of Nylon monomers and specialty chemicals. Following DuPont’s divestiture of Nylon in 2004, Dr. Allgeier joined Amgen, Inc. to help establish the Amgen Catalysis and Hydrogenation Group and to conduct process development and clinical manufacturing. In 2011 he joined DuPont Central Research reaching the level of Senior Principal Scientist and was a technology leader for surface and particle science in the Corporate Center for Analytical Sciences. With his transition from industry to academia, Dr. Allgeier is bringing his expertise in catalysis, characterization science, and pharmaceutical manufacturing to The University of Kansas, where he is building a group focused on sustainability with emphasis on catalysis, reaction engineering and porous materials. Porous Media & Materials Characterization From unconventional reservoirs to drug delivery systems, porous media enable the success of many processes directly and indirectly related to our daily lives. We explore the many different routes to synthesize and characterize the systems where the micro-level has a determining impact in the macro-world. Learn About Porous Media & Materials Characterization Continuous Manufacturing for Pharmaceuticals Investigation of the fundamentals of reactor design and reaction engineering to promote improvements in the manufacturing processes of pharmaceutical products. We aim to achieve leaner processes, greener operations, and more sustainable products. Learn about Continuous Manufacturing Catalysis & Reaction Engineering Inspired by one of the most important Green Chemistry principles, we work to promote catalyzed routes for reactions that impact a variety of fields. At the Allgeier Group, both heterogeneous and homogeneous catalysts are studied in-depth. Learn about Catalysis & Reaction Engineering Ethanol Derivatives Fundamentally based on the Green Chemistry principles, bio-catalyzed reactions enable efficient and viable routes for the achievement of sustainable chemical processes. At the Allgeier Group, we take advantage of the high biodegradability and low toxicity of biocatalysts (enzymes) to promote a greener future. Learn about Ethanol Derivatives What is new in our Group? Newsletter What's up in our group News Promoting STEM in High School Ph.D. student Murilo Suekuni talked about hydrogels at Wichita East High School NSF Director and U.S. Senator Visit KU U.S. Senator Jerry Moran and NSF Director Dr. Panchanathan visited the Allgeier lab CUR Mentor Spotlight Ph.D. student Simon Velasquez talks about his experience A Bond Creating Summer Undergraduate students and high school teachers got immersed in research View all news Want to learn more about our research? We would love to hear from you! Contact Us Contact Us The University of Kansas - LEEP 2 1636 W 15th St., Room 2447 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 30, 42 alan.allgeier@ku.edu facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin The University of Kansas (KU) Chemical and Petroleum Engineering (C&PE) Center for Environmentally Beneficial Catalysis (CEBC) Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) ChEER Youth Internship Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.