Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home Affinity Groups Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Affinity Groups Affinity Groups ALAAMEA was originally formed in 2015 to "provide strategic advocacy to Asian, Latino, African American, Multi-Ethnic, and LGBTIQ faculty and staff," while also serving as a space for allies to these communities at Tulane. Although the ALAAMEA umbrella has expanded to include multiple other faculty and staff affinity groups, we retain the ALAAMEA name to honor and recognize the early ALAAMEA faculty and staff founders, leaders, and members who championed equity and justice work across our university. We welcome the formation of new affinity groups. If you are interested in starting a faculty and staff affinity group underneath the ALAAMEA umbrella, please contact Anneliese Singh and Carolyn Barber-Pierre. Our current Faculty and Staff affinity groups underneath the ALAAMEA umbrella include the following: Asian/Pacific Islander Faculty and Staff ▾ Asian/Pacific Islander Faculty and Staff Affinity Group Facilitator Anneliese Singh Associate Provost for Faculty Development and Chief Diversity Officer Black Faculty and Staff ▾ Black Faculty and Staff Affinity Group Facilitators Sienna Abdulahad Director, Office of Multicultural Affairs Michael Cunningham Professor and Associate Provost for Graduate Studies and Research Tiye Jones Program Manager for Academic Community Engagement, Center for Public Service Robert Westley LOCHEF Professor of Legal Ethics and Professional Responsibility, School of Law Chinese Faculty and Staff ▾ Chinese Faculty and Staff Affinity Group Facilitators Yi-ping Chen Chair in Cell and Molecular Biology and Professor The John L. and Mary Wright Ebaugh Chair in Science and Engineering Tony Hu Weatherhead Presidential Chair in Biotechnology Innovation Director, Center of Cellular and Molecular Diagnosis, School of Medicine Shusheng Wang Professor of Cell and Molecular Biology, School of Science & Engineering Dr. Yu-ping Wang Professor of Biomedical Engineering, School of Science & Engineering Uptown campus representatives: Dr. Xin Jiang Dr. Xiang Ji Downtown campus representatives: Dr. Lu Qi Dr. Hong Liu Primate center representative: Dr. Xuebin Qin Advising board members: Dr. Hua Lu Dr. Xiao-ming Yin Dr. Xiaojin Chen Dr. Hua He Dr. Hongbin Liu Dr. Hong-wen Deng Faculty and Staff Living with Disabilities ▾ Faculty and Staff Living with Disabilities Affinity Group Facilitators Benji Brubaker Program Manager, Center for Public Service Cathy Lazarus Associate Dean for Student Affairs & Records Jane Pinzino Librarian III Indigenous Faculty and Staff ▾ Indigenous Faculty and Staff Affinity Group Facilitators Joseph Bull John and Elsie Martinez Biomedical Engineering Chair Associate Dean of Research, Faculty Affairs and Graduate Studies, School of Science and Engineering Judith Maxwell Professor of Anthropology, School of Liberal Arts Latinx Faculty and Staff ▾ Latinx Faculty and Staff Affinity Group Facilitators Eddy Cruz Assistant Dean and Executive Director, Newcomb-Tulane College Career Services Geraldine Neville Senior Administrative Program Coordinator, Global Environmental Health Science Gabe Christian-Sola Senior Program Coordinator for Student Engagement, Newcomb-Tulane College LGBTQ+ Faculty and Staff ▾ LGBTQ+ Faculty and Staff Affinity Group Facilitator Petey Peterson Director, Office of Gender and Sexual Diversity White Anti-Racist Learning Community ▾ White Anti-Racist Learning Community Affinity Group Facilitators Benji Brubaker Program Manager, Center for Public Service Petey Peterson Director, Office of Gender and Sexual Diversity Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University