Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Community Alumni Benefits and Resources As a Harvard alumnus/a, you are entitled to benefits and services from across the University, both online and off. Explore what's available to you! About the HAA Upcoming Alumni Events Menu Main menu Community Overview My Profile My Contacts Email Forwarding Email Preferences Message Board My Messages Post A Message Alumni Class Notes My Notes Submit a Class Note Clubs & SIGs Clubs Directory SIGs Directory Volunteer Public Service Stories Careers & Networking HAA Career Resources Career Resources by School HAA Career Webinars Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA HAA Board HAA Poet Laureate Staff Directory Awards and Recognition Help Take advantage of the benefits the Harvard Alumni Association offers you as a Harvard graduate by browsing our list of services below. Just note that some of these benefits are available to degree-holding alumni only, while others are open associate members or program participants in addition to degree-holding alumni. If you have questions about your eligibility, please contact the Alumni Help Desk. Due to COVID-19, in-person benefits on Harvard’s campus, such as visiting Harvard gyms or libraries, are currently unavailable. Online Resources These services require you to log in to the Alumni Directory and are open broadly to degree-holding Harvard alumni and associate members. Program participants can access the Alumni Directory to connect with alumni of their school. Alumni Directory The Harvard Alumni Association Alumni Directory is your comprehensive resource for staying in touch with classmates and other alumni around the world. Make sure your profile is up to date with your most recent contact information. You need your HarvardKey to log in, so if you haven’t claimed yours yet visit key.harvard.edu and choose the “alumni” tab. View the Alumni Directory Career Networking Participate in our Career Network to connect with alumni interested in networking and allow current Harvard students to find you. You can sign up by updating your Alumni Directory profile with career networking capabilities. Sign Up for the Career Network Class Notes Share updates about your life and accomplishments and view notes posted by classmates and fellow alumni. Submit a Class Note Message Board Post a message to fellow alumni around topics of interest. Post a Message Services and Discounts All services and discount resources are available to degree-holding alumni, associate members, and program participants. Harvard Alumni World MasterCard® Collect cash back and travel rewards, plus no annual or foreign transaction fees with this card designed exclusively for Harvard alumni. The best part? Revenue from the card supports financial aid. This benefit is only available to alumni residing in the U.S. Sign Up Harvard Magazine Enjoy all Harvard Magazine content online. If you are in the U.S., you can also search class notes by year, find Harvard news from around the world, and select content by interest with the Magazine’s mobile app. View Harvard Magazine Online Harvard COOP Join the COOP for a $1 annual fee and get 10 percent off on all purchases. Shop for Harvard Gear Harvard University Employees Credit Union Take advantage of the variety of products and services offered to the Harvard community by the Credit Union. Sign Up Campus and Community All of the following resources are open to degree-holding alumni, some resources may vary for associate members and program participants. Harvard College Library Get limited library access with an HCL Stacks Access Card or more extensive access by purchasing a Special Borrowers Card. Access Library Harvard Graduate School Libraries Contact your School's alumni office about additional library access. Find Your Library Athletics Facilities Gain access to Harvard athletics facilities through alumni and family membership passes. Join a Harvard Athletics Facility Harvard Faculty Club Enjoy fine dining, private events, and guest bedrooms at the Faculty Club. Become a Member Harvard Clubs Get involved in one of the 199+ Harvard Clubs in more than 70 countries worldwide. Find a Club Near You Shared Interest Groups Find communities through our Shared Interest Groups, which actively engage university-wide alumni around a central unifying purpose, mission, background, or activity beyond class affiliation, school, or regional proximity. Join a Shared Interest Group Lifelong Learning All lifelong learning resources are available to degree-holding alumni, associate members, and program participants. Harvard Online Learning There are numerous resources available across the University to help you explore new topics or engage with familiar subject areas. View Learning Opportunities Alumni Events Search the programs and events page for HAA-sponsored events as well as Club and Shared Interest Group events in your area. During COVID-19 most of these offerings are currently virtual. Browse Upcoming Events Harvard Alumni Travels Travel the world with Harvard alumni and faculty. Since in-person trips are currently paused until May 2021, we invite you to travel from the comfort of your home with Harvard Travels’ multitude of complimentary virtual travel guides that will take you to destinations around the globe. Travel With Us Electronic Journal Access from Harvard Library Explore a selection of online journals curated by the Harvard Library and made available to Harvard alumni. View Online Journals Student Engagement The opportunity to participate in either of these platforms is open to degree-holding alumni and associate members. Firsthand Advisers The College’s Office of Career Services’ Firsthand Advisers platform provides scheduling and connection tools to engage in “flash mentoring.” Alumni can offer 30–60 minutes to engage in a mock interview, review a resume or CV, or have a career chat. As the job market has changed due to the economic impact of the pandemic, your advice in navigating career options is particularly needed. Need help signing up? Email ocsrecep@fas.harvard.edu. Become a Mentor Crimson Careers If your organization is hiring, has an internship opportunity, or a short-term project available, please post it on the Crimson Careers Job and Internship Database. Maintained by the Office of Career Services, anyone is welcome to add job openings to this platform, including alumni who can post for free. Need help posting an opportunity? Email ocsjobs@fas.harvard.edu. Post an Open Position Contact Us Need to get in touch with the Harvard Alumni Association? Call or Email You can reach us by phone at 800-823-2478 or 617-496-0559 (M–F, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. [ET]) or by email at haa_alumnihelp@harvard.edu. Email the HAA Alumni Help Desk You can reach the HAA Online Help Desk by filling out the HAA Help Desk contact form. Go to Help Desk Form Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College