Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Alumna/Alumnus You are here: Home1 / Career Services2 / Alumna/Alumnus Make Your Next Career Move Clemson University alumni who have been out of school 1-year or longer have access to an array of career resources through the Clemson Alumni Association. We begin working with you 1-year post graduation and we continue—indefinitely. We offer training via phone and in-person consults on the tools and resources we provide for you at no charge, and we host multi-school alumni career fairs. Access to Millions of Jobs; NACELINK Network, CareerShift, Alumni CareerLink (Job Board) Phone and In-person Consults (as time permits) Multi-School Alumni Career Fairs Resume Resources (resume critiques when time permits) For more information about how Alumni Career Services can help you, please contact us at 864-656-2345, or email us at CUAlumni@clemson.edu. WHAT IS AVAILABLE? Alumni Career Services You are eligible to work with Alumni Career Services if you have been out of school 1 or more years. You must register and you’ll receive an email confirmation once your account has been approved and set-up. Register for Alumni Career Services Alumni Career Link To post or apply for a job, please use Clemson Alumni Career Link. If you’ve used Career Link before, you can access it again here. If not, you’ll need to register with Alumni Career Services. Login to Alumni Career Link TigerLink Gateway The TigerLink Gateway is Clemson’s campus-wide mentoring initiative and the entryway to career connections. The Gateway helps facilitate career-related conversations between students, Clemson alumni, faculty & staff, friends of Clemson, and industry leaders around the globe. Community members can seek knowledge and advice, explore career fields, become a mentor, join an official mentoring group or program, and build professional networks. Join the GATEWAY today Find a Club Connections are important! Whether you’re settling into a new area, or you’re looking for career connections—we can help. Through our official club and group network, you’ll be able to connect with other Clemson alumni in your area. See a List of Clubs in Your Area Update You Contact Information Please make sure your info is updated for our records. Update your info Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Faculty Member Employer Job Listings Tools and Opportunities Mentorship Career Fairs – Employer Registration Career Fairs – Job Seeker Registration Registration Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info