Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Thanks to You Image Thanks to You Your gifts move Princeton from the present to the possible. Students, undergraduate and graduate; faculty members; research endeavors; building projects; departments, programs and courses – everywhere you look at Princeton, you see the impact of the support of dedicated alumni, parents and friends. Enabling Transformation, Empowering Community Karen and David Mandelbaum ’57 name new dining facility at Center for Jewish Life From a boxed lunch to a dormitory: Margaret and Robert Hariri help more students dream big News Princeton launches Venture Forward, an engagement and fundraising campaign that supports the University’s strategic plan On Oct. 1, 2021, Princeton University publicly launches Venture Forward, an engagement and fundraising campaign dedicated to meeting today’s complex challenges and those of the future. See the Possible Why My Scholarship Matters “The financial package that I was given by Princeton was unparalleled — it gave me momentum to follow my dreams.” Matthew Trotter ’22 “The financial package that I was given by Princeton was unparalleled — it gave me momentum to follow my dreams.” Matthew Trotter ’22 “I haven’t had anyone in my family that I could go to for counsel about college, but I think it’s a huge blessing that I could be the person who paves the way for a new standard where college is normal for the generations of family behind me.” Taraje Whitfield ’22 “The Princeton community is so strong, and just the kindness and generosity that alumni have extended to me makes me want to do the same.” Turquoise Brewington ’22 “There is always one person in their family who breaks the cycle of poverty. I am that person in my family.” Axidi Iglesias ’23 “It is Princeton’s culture of giving back and working collectively to help not only fellow classmates but to better our community and the world that drew me to this University.” Trace Nuss ’23 “I did not have to take out loans that would put my family in debt in order to attend Princeton. And that is major, because my parents are still paying off their own college debt.” Luz Victoria Simón Jasso ’24 “Princeton made me feel like I belong here. It felt like the right place to figure out who I was and what kind of person I was going to become.” Christopher St. Hilaire ’24 “I initially expected that my college experience and my recruitment process would end up being something that I’d have to compromise on, but Princeton delivered so much more than I imagined.” Kyung Eun Lee ’25 “Princeton professors are just so confident in their students, and the wide-open doors of their labs allow me the freedom to mess around and experiment.” Misael Campos ’21 “I didn’t really realize until I came just how special the Princeton alumni community is. You develop these unique bonds, and treasure close friendships that last for a long, long time.” Ali Munson ’21 An Affordable Education Through your support of scholarships, fellowships and Annual Giving, you make Princeton's unparalleled commitment to access, affordability and student success possible. See the Impact Gifts Major gift from Jaimie and James Yeh ’87 names residential college and supports undergraduate expansion Yeh College, comprised of four dormitory halls and previously referred to as New College East, will open in August to welcome returning students and the Class of 2026. Visit Yeh College Endowed Professorships: Advancing the Frontiers of Knowledge Your gifts of endowed chairs help build a dynamic academic community that inspires creativity, innovation and collaboration. Princeton scholars engage with the major challenges of our time. Here are a few of their voices. Your gifts of endowed chairs help build a dynamic academic community that inspires creativity, innovation and collaboration. Princeton scholars engage with the major challenges of our time. Here are a few of their voices. “I like to say I’m fixing the internet. I’m really interested in making the internet worthy of the trust society increasingly places in it.” Jennifer Rexford, ’91 Gordon Y.S. Wu Professor in Engineering; chair of the Department of Computer Science “Princeton has a very different feel — scientifically, academically — than other places. There are so many opportunities that come from bringing different perspectives together and discovering new things.” Nathaniel Daw, Huo Professor in Computational and Theoretical Neuroscience “The data we’re collecting and the models that we’re building are leading to breakthroughs in understanding how memory works in the real world.” Kenneth Norman, Huo Professor in Computational and Theoretical Neuroscience; chair of the Department of Psychology “The reason why I came to Princeton to teach is that it’s a liberal arts college at its heart. It’s a liberal arts institution that’s defined by its intensity and its intimacy.” Eddie S. Glaude Jr. *97, James S. McDonnell Distinguished University Professor of African American Studies; chair of the Department of African American Studies “The readings I’m covering in class are at the frontier of research. There isn’t a textbook, but we’re reading some of the latest papers and journals in the fields.” Anu Ramaswami, Sanjay Swani ’87 Professor of India Studies; director of the M.S. Chadha Center for Global India Our Stories Alumni Spotlight Once a high scorer, Marty Mannion ’81 is now tallying up the assists Read More Read More Gifts University honors Judy and Carl Ferenbach ’64 at High Meadows Environmental Institute dedication Annual Giving Allison Carruth maps imaginative new blueprints for the future of the planet Gifts Venture Forward gift launches initiative on blockchain and decentralization of power Thank you for your partnership and for all you make possible at Princeton—now and in the future. Dedication Celebrations Thanks to you, new and renovated spaces on campus facilitate excellence in teaching, learning and research. Dedicatory events celebrate the extraordinary support of alumni, parents and friends of the University. See Dedication Stories Make A Gift All the Ways Our Stories See the Stories Give Make an Impact Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram