Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography About You are here: Home1 / About Bringing Together Alumni We are the conduit that brings together alumni of all ages and from all geographies to keep their flame for Clemson alive and glowing. We do this via events, get-togethers, various activities and regular communications so that alumni always feel a part of the Clemson Family, help those who’ve recently graduated network to begin their careers, and assist in helping alumni give back in many different ways. We continually bring the community of Clemson together to celebrate our special kinship. The Clemson Alumni Association This is what Family feels like! We can’t wait to see you on campus, at one of our events or when we travel to your city. Check out how you can gather with the Clemson Family on our Events page or click here to find a club near you. The Clemson Alumni Association is an open-membership, nonprofit organization that exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Through a variety of programs and services, the Alumni Association works with alumni around the world to ensure you have a Clemson Experience every day. It is our mission to enhance the lifelong Clemson experience by serving, involving, informing and engaging our alumni, current and future students, and friends of the University. Alumni Board The Clemson Alumni Association Board of Directors is responsible for general oversight of programs and initiatives, financial audit and review, creation of governing policies and strategic planning for the alumni association. Alumni Staff Your Alumni Association staff develops and manages programs, services, communications, and events that facilitate and enhance your lifelong connection to Clemson and each other. Annual Report Stay up-to-date on all that is happening at Clemson and beyond. This annual report showcases the great initiatives happening at your alumni association while reminding you of the history and traditions associated with the university that you love. Club and Group Leader Toolkit From brand guidelines to reporting forms, the Club and Group Leader toolkit provides resources and detailed information about policies and guidelines to volunteer leaders at the click of a mouse. This kit is intended to assist with any question a leader may have in supporting a charted Clemson club or group. Alumni Association Board of Directors Alumni Association Staff Contact Us Something In These Hills The Echo Archives Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info