Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Hosting events at the Alumni Center Menu Home Event spaces Space availability Rates Event resources FAQ Contact Main content start COVID-19 While the Alumni Center remains closed to the public, we are cautiously accepting event space reservations based on county and university guidelines. Please please fill out the room/date availability form for all inquiries. We are currently not accepting any more events in April through June. Plan your Stanford event at the Frances C. Arrillaga Alumni Center A comprehensive venue featuring an elegant reception hall, unique meeting rooms and beautiful outdoor gardens. Features Free Wi-Fi and use of the Munzer Business Center Access to The Alumni Café during normal business hours Monday–Friday A dedicated event manager to help coordinate and oversee your event Front desk security for evening events Up to two golf cart rentals Convenient parking at the Track Lot, or for larger events the rentable Galvez Lot Marguerite Shuttle stop conveniently located in front of the Alumni Center, with stops around campus and the train station Event planning services* Hire an Alumni Center event manager to plan your event! All room layout, furniture and audio/visual setup All catering, menus, linens and centerpieces Parking and transportation services Garbage, recycling, and compost bins with PSSI *Please note: a handling fee equal to 20% of the final bill for each selected service will be charged to your PTA at the conclusion of the event. Stanford Alumni Association Frances C. Arrillaga Alumni Center 326 Galvez Street Stanford, CA 94305-6105 map Find an alum Check your alumni email Access SAA Member Card Give to Stanford Stanford Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Stanford Instagram Youtube Accessibility | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Code of Conduct Events Featured Events Reunions Communities Clubs & Groups Young Alumni Students Reading & Resources News & Stories Learn STANFORD magazine Career Connections Newsletters Racial Justice Programs & Perks Alumni Perks Alumni Membership Sierra Programs Travel/Study Wine Collection Alumni store Volunteer Volunteer Opportunities Stanford Associates Beyond the Farm Trustee Nominations About About SAA Alumni Center Event Space Contact Us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top