Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Date July 21, 2021 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email #GoBruno: Brunonians at the Tokyo Olympics Congratulations and best of luck to all the Brunonians who are in Tokyo for the Olympic Games! 1 of 9 Eight Brunonians are in Tokyo for the Olympic Games July 23 to August 8, 2021—a team physician, a sport psychologist, and six competing athletes. Originally scheduled to take place in 2020, the Games will begin later this week after they were postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 2 of 9 Anders Weiss '15 will be competing in the Olympics for a second time when he rows in the men's four for Team USA. At Brown, Weiss twice earned Second Team All-Ivy honors helping the Bears earn silver medals in the varsity eight at the Eastern Sprints in both 2013 and 2014. "He was always somebody that was able to step up his game on the big day. He was always an exceptional performer for us. He put us into the medals many times, won some big races in the stroke seat and other places in the boat." — Brown Men's Crew head coach Paul Cooke '89 3 of 9 Janet Leung '16 is playing softball for Team Canada in the Tokyo Olympic Games. Leung helped Softball Canada qualify for the Games and is set to become Brown's first-ever Olympian in the sport. She has established herself as one of Canada's top infielders since graduating from Brown. In 2018, Leung won gold at the Canada Cup—earning the tournament's Best Defensive Player award—before capturing bronze at the Women's Softball World Championship. A four-time All-Ivy selection, Leung finished her career third all-time at Brown in at bats and fifth in doubles while starting all 151 games over her four years. 4 of 9 Cicely Madden '18 will row for Team USA in the quadruple skull. Madden was an All-Ivy rower for the Bears all four years on College Hill as well as a multi-year CRCA All-American. A member of the first varsity eight all four years at Brown, Madden has medaled multiple times in international competition and is hoping to do the same in Japan for Team USA. "I can honestly say that during her time here I never saw her discouraged, I never saw her overwhelmed and I never saw her give less than her absolute best. Cicely showed up for practice, she showed up on race day and she had the total respect of all of her teammates and coaches." — Brown Women's Crew head coach John Murphy 5 of 9 Alex Miklasevich '19 will row for Team USA in the men's eight. During his time at Brown, Miklasevich captured bronze medals in the varsity eight at Eastern Sprints in both 2016 and 2019. He also took home a bronze medal at the 2018 Head of the Charles and raced with the Bears at the 2017 Henley Royal Regatta. "(Alex) brings every tool to the table when it comes to rowing and racing. He was a leader. He just represented excellence overall and represented this program so well. He is one of those guys that doesn't come around very often." — Brown Men's Crew head coach Paul Cooke '89 6 of 9 Jagger Stephens '20 will represent Guam in Tokyo swimming the 100 freestyle. At Brown, Stephens swam the 50 freestyle, 100 freestyle, 200 freestyle and 100 butterfly at the Ivy League Championships. "(Jagger) was a leader in the water and a vocal leader out of the water and part of a great senior class for us." — Brown Men's Swimming & Diving head coach Kevin Norman 7 of 9 Hanna Barakat '22 will represent Palestine in Tokyo running in the 100 meters. Barakat joined the Brown Women's Track & Field Program in 2017 where she started her college career with a first-place finish in the 60 meters. During the 2019-20 indoor season, she was part of a team that broke the school record in the 4x400 meter relay. "I'm so happy for Hanna. She's worked so hard and has shown tremendous improvement over the years here. We are all looking forward to rooting hard for her." — Brown Track & Field head coach Tim Springfield 8 of 9 James H. Lynch MD’03, P’19 will serve as team physician for USA Swimming at the Olympic Games—his second consecutive Games in this role. In March 2021, Lynch retired from the U.S. Army after serving for over 31 years. For the last 10 years of his military career, he spearheaded an effort to incorporate an innovative procedure into post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) treatment. Along with a longtime colleague, Dr. Lynch has pioneered the use of stellate ganglion block (SGB) in the treatment of PTSD symptoms and now aims to raise awareness of this procedure for people who suffer from trauma, including sexual assault survivors and first responders. 9 of 9 Sean McCann ’82, senior sport psychologist for the U.S. Olympic & Paralympic Committee, is in his 30th year counseling Olympians and Paralympians and attending his 14th Olympic Games. McCann works directly with teams and coaches, from mental skills seminars and workshops, to individual sessions with athletes. In this year of disruption and cancellations, he has been helping athletes deal with the stress and uncertainty leading up to the Games. In addition to his work for the Olympic Committee, McCann works with professional athletes in a variety of sports, from ball sports to NASCAR. ▶ Watch a congratulations message from Brown Athletics. Update Janet Leung '16 earned bronze with Team Canada in women's softball at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. Leung scored the game-winning run against Team Mexico, propelling the team to a 3-2 and Canada's first bronze medal in softball. Photo credits: Weiss, Madden, and Miklasevich photos courtesy of US Rowing. Leung, Stephens, and Barakat photos courtesy of Brown Athletics. Sources: Weiss, Leung, Madden, Miklasevich, Stephens, Barakat, Lynch, McCann Tags Alumni Athletics Biology/Medicine Students Veterans Related News Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President & Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 April 28, 2022 By helping educators access crucial information resources, Hintermeister taps into passions she discovered as a Brown undergrad: sharing knowledge and giving back. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President &amp; Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search #GoBruno: Brunonians at the Tokyo Olympics Open details for #GoBruno: Brunonians at the Tokyo Olympics Bookmark this Page