Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Volunteer Make memories and friends—and make a difference that reverberates far beyond the Van Wickle Gates. Sub Navigation In This Section Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Volunteer Make memories and friends—and make a difference that reverberates far beyond the Van Wickle Gates. Give the gift of time and knowledge. Plan and promote events. Mentor students and alums. Encourage the philanthropic support that will bring them to campus. There are so many ways that your talents, perspective, and experience are vital to our community. Ways to Volunteer Your Time Volunteer Opportunities Connect with fellow Brunonians in meaningful ways and help shape the future of your alma mater in the process. Every contribution of your time and talent is welcome. Volunteer Tools & Resources Go directly to online tools: BRAVO Tools Brown Annual Fund Fundraising Volunteer Portal Go directly to online guides: Club Leader Toolkit (PDF) Class Leader Toolkit View all volunteer tools and resources Celebrating Our Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Meet our recipients and learn more about the awards that honor the difference that dedicated Brunonians have made for Brown and for the world. “ ...Each of these (volunteer) involvements has deepened my understanding and appreciation for the range of crucial decisions that impact the lives of our students and faculty...And, at the most basic level, volunteering is enormous fun because of the special people you meet. ” Nancy Fuld Neff '76, P'06, P'14 Related Stories View more alumni stories Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President & Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 April 28, 2022 By helping educators access crucial information resources, Hintermeister taps into passions she discovered as a Brown undergrad: sharing knowledge and giving back. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President &amp; Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Marketing Maven Ivon Rodriguez ’00 EMBA’16 February 10, 2022 From broadcast media to museums to fintech, Ivon Rodriguez has carried the “think outside the box” approach from Brown into every industry she touches. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Marketing Maven Ivon Rodriguez ’00 EMBA’16 Alumni & Friends The best medicine? Paying it forward January 13, 2022 Through their volunteer work, Brown medical alumni are giving back to where it all began and supporting the next generation of Brown physicians. Read Article Open details for The best medicine? Paying it forward Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Volunteer Open details for Volunteer Bookmark this Page