Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Gift Planning Gifts That Pay You Income Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Life income plans enable you to make a substantial gift to the College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, or the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, and receive an income for life or a term of years. At the death of the last beneficiary or at the conclusion of the term, the gift is released to Harvard for the purpose you specify. Popular Life Income Arrangements Charitable Remainder Unitrusts Charitable Gift Annuities Pooled Income Funds These arrangements provide a range of benefits, including: Income to one or two beneficiaries, for life or a term of years An immediate charitable income tax deduction Capital gains tax avoidance on a gift of appreciated property Investment diversification Professional management and investment diversification through Harvard Management Company or TIAA Kaspick, with no separate fee Estate tax savings The ability to make a significant gift to Harvard Charitable Remainder Unitrusts A charitable remainder unitrust is a separate tax-exempt account into which you transfer your gift. Harvard will serve as trustee, direct the investment of the trust assets, and oversee all legal, accounting and administrative matters. Harvard can pay you a percentage of the unitrust’s value as income, typically 5 percent. As the value of the unitrust changes, so too does your income. Alternatively, the trustee can pay you a fixed payment each year, based on a percentage, typically 5 percent, of the funding amount of the unitrust. Benefits Quarterly income for life; support for your spouse or other beneficiaries Potential for growth of income over time Investment diversification No capital gains tax on gifts of appreciated assets Charitable income tax deduction Gift and estate tax savings Investment management services provided by either Harvard Management Company (the Endowment Strategy) or TIAA Kaspick (the Tax Efficient Strategies) with no separate management fee Significant future support for Harvard’s research and teaching Unitrust Investment Options Charitable remainder unitrusts can be invested by Harvard Management Company alongside the Harvard endowment or by TIAA Kaspick in a manner geared to pay income taxed at lower rates. Please see this overview of the investment strategies. Guidelines Gift minimums are $150,000 for unitrusts with beneficiaries age 50 and older, and $250,000 for unitrusts with beneficiaries 45–49 years old. You can donate a wide variety of assets to a unitrust—cash, publicly traded securities, closely held stock, real estate, art, antiques, collections, or intangible assets such as royalties. View charitable remainder unitrust performance history. Request a Personal Gift Illustration Please contact us at 617-496-3205 or use our electronic form. Charitable Gift Annuity and Deferred Gift Annuity Charitable and Deferred gift annuities are simple contracts between you and Harvard that offer a tax-advantaged way to provide for income during retirement. In the future, your gift provides support for Harvard’s mission. You can begin to receive income right away, or defer it to a predetermined future date one year or more after the gift. You also can decide when the income payments begin within a future time frame, determined when you make your gift. In any case, your income is taxed at a favorable blended rate. Benefits Steady, guaranteed lifetime payments, backed by the assets of the University Charitable income tax deduction Avoidance of capital gains tax Savings on gift and estate taxes Future support for Harvard Guidelines Minimum gift of $25,000 Payments can begin at age 40 or later Can be funded with cash, securities, or other property Harvard University Gift Annuity Rates Income rates are based on your age or the age(s) of your beneficiary(ies) when quarterly payments begin. Age(s) of Donor(s) ...Immediate Annuity Rate …5-Year Deferral Rate: 65 5.4% 7.3% 65/65 4.8% 6.4% 70 6.0% 8.1% 70/70 5.3% 7.2% 75 6.7% 9.3% 75/75 5.9% 7.9% 80 7.7% 10.6% 80/80 6.5% 9.1% Request a Personal Gift Illustration Please contact us at 617-496-3205 or use our electronic form. Pooled Income Funds Pooled income funds consist of gifts from multiple donors that are combined into a trust invested for Harvard by TIAA Kaspick. Pooled income funds offer you income and tax benefits and ultimately support the work of the University. A pooled income fund gift entitles you and your beneficiary to your proportional share of the quarterly income of the fund for life. On the death of the last income beneficiary, the principal of your gift will be used by Harvard. Benefits Quarterly income for life Support for your spouse or other beneficiaries Charitable income tax deduction Avoidance of capital gains tax Gift and estate tax savings Future support for Harvard Harvard Pooled Income Funds Harvard Life Return Fund: Seeks to earn a sustained high rate of income over the long term and is invested primarily in fixed-income mutual funds. Harvard Growth Fund: Generates modest income and seeks long-term growth of principal. The fund invests primarily in domestic equity securities. Harvard Balanced Fund: Combines the strategies of the other two funds, and offers a moderate level of current income as well as opportunities for long-term growth of both principal and income. Guidelines A gift to a pooled income fund can be funded with cash or marketable securities. Each of the funds requires a minimum initial gift of $25,000. The minimum age for beneficiaries is 50 years old for the Life Return Fund, 25 for the Growth Fund, and 40 for the Balanced Fund. Request a Personal Gift Illustration Please contact us at 617-496-3205 or use our electronic form. Performance History View pooled income funds performance histories. Contact Us Email: ogp@harvard.edu Phone: 617-496-3205 or 1-800-VERITAS (ask for the Office of Gift Planning) Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College