Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Update your information Alumni email services Services On this page All about your NetID Access the alumni directory Alumni email services University transcripts Career tools Electronic library resources Support your class Browse alumni services and start connecting today. Many services require a Cornell NetID to log in. Don’t have one? We’ll get you started. All about your NetID Look up your NetID The NetID is a universal and secure identifier, unique to you, required to access many secure Cornell online services. Activate your NetID Cornell's NetID self-service website will help you activate your NetID and set up your personal password. Manage your NetID Forgot your NetID password? Want to change your NetID password? Visit Cornell's Manage Your NetID page or call the IT Service Desk at 607-255-5500 between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Eastern Time, Monday - Friday. Access the alumni directory CornellConnect Looking for a classmate? Or a Cornellian? Search the alumni directory. Update your contact information Keep your address, email, and phone number current to learn about Cornell events in your area and on campus, hear the latest university news, and discover opportunities for learning, networking, and volunteering. Alumni email services Cornell G Suite Cornell G Suite (formerly known as Cmail) is the recommended email service available to all alumni. It is a Cornell-branded email account provided by Google Apps for Education. Learn more about account setup and email forwarding. University transcripts Get transcripts Request official transcripts from the Office of the Registrar. Career tools Alumni career support You’re part of the Cornell network. We’re here to help you leverage those connections, no matter where you are on your career path. Volunteering and your career Volunteerism can positively impact your career. Download this guide to learn more. Download Entry-level jobs Cornell Handshake is the system used by Cornell Career Services to post jobs submitted to Cornell. Job postings are geared towards current students and alumni with 0–5 years experience. To use the system, you must first complete a brief Student Profile, which allows us to notify you of various opportunities pertinent to your career interests. There is no fee for this service. Cornell Career Services Cornell Career Services offers resources to help you achieve your goals. These include individual advising, workshops and panels, web resources, handouts, alumni-shadowing programs, job-search services, and a Career Guide. Career Development Toolkit Enroll in the Career Development Toolkit course on our Canvas platform to explore interactive modules in networking, resumes, interviews and more. Learn for free and at your own pace by logging in with your NetID. If you have trouble logging in, request access to Canvas at request.canvas.cornell.edu. Electronic library resources Cornell University Library Cornell alumni have access to several library services for personal use. A NetID is required. Support your class Pay class dues Class dues support specific class initiatives, programs, and opportunities for classmates that are separate and distinct from gifts to the university. Plan your Reunion Reunion has something for everyone. Browse events and create a custom itinerary to make the most of your weekend on the Hill! Can't make it in person? Choose the Virtual Reunion package during registration and get access to featured livestream events. Make your schedule Ho Plaza looking south from atop McGraw Tower. Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022