Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu BrownTogether Campaign Breadcrumb Home All News All News Sub Navigation In This Section News & Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories 28 Results based on your selections. Alumni & Friends What’s next for BrownTogether? March 25, 2022 We’re now heading toward $4 billion. See where the next phase of BrownTogether will take us. Read Article Open details for What’s next for BrownTogether? Alumni & Friends $4B: BrownTogether campaign extended March 1, 2022 With its new $4 billion goal, the campaign will continue through 2024—raising funds for research and teaching in medicine, public health, engineering and the arts, as well as student financial aid, career services and Brown Athletics. Read Article Open details for $4B: BrownTogether campaign extended Alumni & Friends 10 Brunonians who embody BrownTogether December 10, 2021 From researchers to recent grads, discover the people who illustrate the heart of Brown’s most ambitious campaign. Read Article Open details for 10 Brunonians who embody BrownTogether Alumni & Friends This is what $3 billion looks like December 9, 2021 How did BrownTogether reach $3 billion? What does it mean for Brown? We’ll let the numbers tell the story. Read Article Open details for This is what $3 billion looks like Alumni & Friends Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign November 2, 2021 Having reached its target more than a year ahead of schedule, the University will continue raising funds for student scholarships and faculty research, while establishing new goals in the months to come. Read Article Open details for Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign News from Brown New center and residence hall realizes Brown’s vision for integrated student wellness experience September 16, 2021 The University’s recently opened health and wellness center and residence hall is bringing together students and staff committed to promoting student well-being through collaborative care and community building. Read Article Open details for New center and residence hall realizes Brown’s vision for integrated student wellness experience Alumni & Friends The best way to fight Alzheimer’s? Together. June 16, 2021 By convening innovative researchers across academia, Brown’s new Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research hopes to accelerate the pace of development for treatments and cures of this devastating disease. Read Article Open details for The best way to fight Alzheimer’s? Together. Alumni & Friends For one young alum, the impact of financial aid continues to reverberate June 16, 2021 Financial aid has the power to open the door to more opportunities. For Gabriel Reyes ’18, it opened up a whole new universe of opportunities. Read Article Open details for For one young alum, the impact of financial aid continues to reverberate Alumni & Friends Uncovering alternatives to animal testing June 16, 2021 Brown researchers are pursuing a promising new method that could transform toxicology testing, making it faster and more effective without the use of animals. Read Article Open details for Uncovering alternatives to animal testing Alumni & Friends Football gets a modern home field advantage June 16, 2021 The Richard Gouse Field at Brown Stadium makes the jump to a new playing surface, giving football a “play fast” competitive home base. Read Article Open details for Football gets a modern home field advantage Alumni & Friends Saving a "lost" summer: Reinventing experiential learning at Brown March 19, 2021 The pandemic robbed many students of their summer internships and research opportunities. With the SPRINT program, the University created hundreds of new opportunities — and a new way to offer learning beyond the classroom. Read Article Open details for Saving a &quot;lost&quot; summer: Reinventing experiential learning at Brown Alumni & Friends Removing financial barriers — one promise at a time March 19, 2021 The Brown Promise has made the dream of a Brown education possible for many exceptional students. Through an ongoing giving challenge, we're seeking to make it a permanent part of Brown's financial aid programs. Read Article Open details for Removing financial barriers — one promise at a time Alumni & Friends Bridging the STEM gender gap March 16, 2021 With the BrownTogether campaign, the University is creating more opportunity and a stronger sense of community for women faculty in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Read Article Open details for Bridging the STEM gender gap Alumni & Friends Dr. Ashish Jha on vaccines, climate change, and the future of public health March 16, 2021 Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, Dr. Jha has been a national advocate for effective testing and prevention strategies. Now as the new dean of the rapidly growing School of Public Health, he's bringing together minds from every corner of Brown to tackle the public health crises of today and tomorrow. Read Article Open details for Dr. Ashish Jha on vaccines, climate change, and the future of public health News from Brown $20 million in new giving marks growing support for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives at Brown February 26, 2021 With continued momentum in support of Brown’s diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, new BrownTogether gifts and grants are catalyzing research on race and inequity, and supporting students from underrepresented groups. Read Article Open details for $20 million in new giving marks growing support for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives at Brown Alumni & Friends New research network spotlights obstruction to climate change action December 8, 2020 Backed with alumni support, the newly formed Climate Social Science Network is working to understand why climate change has become such a divisive issue—and how to counter the misinformation and barriers to progress surrounding it. Read Article Open details for New research network spotlights obstruction to climate change action Alumni & Friends Creating a home for student veterans December 8, 2020 Brown has taken several steps toward building a more welcoming and supportive environment for student veterans. But none has been more important than boosting the amount of financial aid available to those who have served their country with honor. Read Article Open details for Creating a home for student veterans Alumni & Friends A look back: 2020 highlights December 7, 2020 From providing emergency support to students during a global pandemic to game-changing research in malaria, we're looking back at some important accomplishments supported by Brown donors in a year that was anything but ordinary. Read Article Open details for A look back: 2020 highlights Alumni & Friends What financial aid makes possible September 30, 2020 Talent. Determination. Leadership. With expanded support for financial aid, we're propelling budding leaders forward and helping students become who they were meant to be. Read Article Open details for What financial aid makes possible Alumni & Friends Combating anti-Black racism through education, conversation, and scholarship aid September 29, 2020 As part of the BrownTogether campaign, the University community is supporting a range of diversity and inclusion initiatives that further Brown's long-standing leadership in confronting widespread racial injustice. Read Article Open details for Combating anti-Black racism through education, conversation, and scholarship aid Alumni & Friends Scholars. Investigators. Mentors. June 13, 2019 Through endowed professorships, Brown is deepening its academic bench with top-flight educators. Read Article Open details for Scholars. Investigators. Mentors. Alumni & Friends A promise that’s paid off June 9, 2019 In its inaugural year, The Brown Promise has already made a lasting impact on admissions, socioeconomic diversity, and the future of financial aid. Read Article Open details for A promise that’s paid off News from Brown $3 billion BrownTogether campaign eclipses $2 billion milestone March 14, 2019 From investments in financial aid and faculty research to campus facilities and more, Brown’s most ambitious campaign in history is making an impact across the University. Read Article Open details for $3 billion BrownTogether campaign eclipses $2 billion milestone Alumni & Friends When we come together: Creating a new scholarship at lightning speed February 13, 2019 With resounding support from the alumni community, a new Annual Fund scholarship benefiting black students at Brown kicks off in 2019-20. Read Article Open details for When we come together: Creating a new scholarship at lightning speed News from Brown Campaign giving to support Brown Athletics surpasses $100 million January 31, 2019 With investments in coaching staff, facilities, recruiting and more, the BrownTogether campaign is significantly advancing the University’s goal of amplifying the scholar-athlete experience. Read Article Open details for Campaign giving to support Brown Athletics surpasses $100 million Alumni & Friends Dream Role, Dream School September 18, 2018 First-generation college student and financial aid recipient Viva Sandoval '20 shares how a role in a musical helped ground her at Brown. Read Article Open details for Dream Role, Dream School News from Brown Giving to Brown tops $389 million for 2017-18, far surpassing previous record July 17, 2018 From one of the largest gifts in Brown history to Annual Fund donations from more than 32,000 donors, members of the extended Brown community supported University priorities in teaching, research, student support and more. Read Article Open details for Giving to Brown tops $389 million for 2017-18, far surpassing previous record News from Brown Investment in endowed professorships brings top talent to Brown January 4, 2018 In a competitive academic landscape, endowed professorships supported by the BrownTogether campaign give Brown the means to attract and retain the best teachers and scholars, advancing the academic excellence and mission of the University. Read Article Open details for Investment in endowed professorships brings top talent to Brown Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search BrownTogether Campaign Open details for BrownTogether Campaign Bookmark this Page