Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Cornell Club of Boston – Cranberry Bog Tour Date June 4 @ 10:00 am Venue Boston, MA Register Save Google Calendar .ICS Event Details DATE: June 04, 2022 TIME: 10 am – 12:30 pm LOCATION: Gilmore Cranberry Co., Inc., 25 Cranberry Road, South Carver, MA Sixth-generation cranberry farmer Alison Gilmore Carr (Cornell class of 2001) is looking forward to welcoming the Cornell Club of Boston to her family’s cranberry farm for an early summer farm tour and overview of one of our region’s most beloved agricultural traditions. This is a terrific time of year to visit, as the bogs are just coming to life after the winter dormancy! The tour will take about 90 minutes, with refreshments and a light lunch served at the end. Alison will show us around her family’s South Carver bogs (covering about 75 acres, about a mile of walking) and sharing with us how cranberries grow. The group would be welcomed and encouraged to get on the bogs as Alison highlights many aspects of cranberry farming. Things to know: 1. This is event is being offered free of charge, thanks to the generosity of Alison and her mom, Susan! 2. This is a working farm, so in order to minimize disruption we cannot accommodate more than 25 people. We expect there will be a wait list, so please let us know if you won’t be able to make it after you sign up. 3. Families are welcome, though this event is not suitable to children under 5 years old, nor can we accommodate pets. 4. South Carver, MA is about an hour’s drive from Boston. Please keep summertime Cape-bound traffic in mind when planning your trip! 5. We will be outside and walking a lot, so please dress appropriately! 6. If weather looks to be an issue 24 hours before the event and we need to postpone, we will be in touch with all registrants. If you don’t hear from us, assume we are on! Fun fact: Alison’s sister Abbie and her husband John are also Cornellians! If you have any questions, please contact: Tara Benedict (’01) tbenedict242001@yahoo.com Related Events CC of Cape Cod 2022 Annual Meeting June 1, 2022 Cape Cod, MA The ABCs of NFTs June 2, 2022 Ithaca CAA Northern California - Cornellian Happy Hour June 2, 2022 Plan your Reunion Reunion has something for everyone. Browse events and create a custom itinerary to make the most of your weekend on the Hill! Can't make it in person? Choose the Virtual Reunion package during registration and get access to featured livestream events. Make your schedule Ho Plaza looking south from atop McGraw Tower. Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022