Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Alumni Association Toggle navigation Site Menu Membership Join Today Renew Your Membership Membership Overview Why Become a Member? Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks Alumni Directory My oneFSU Dashboard Students Student Alumni Association Join SAA SAA Membership Perks My oneFSU Dashboard Honors Alumni Ambassadors Award Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Legacy Scholarship Grads Made Good The Inspire Award Community Alumni Networks Alumni Career Services Events Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Alumni Travel Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Webinar Resources Virtual Alumni Resources Support Join, Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Give to the Legacy Scholarship Give to the FSU Alumni Association Give to the FSU Alumni Association Endowment Give to FSU Academic Programs Purchase a Westcott Plaza Brick Support the Alumni Ambassadors Fund About About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Annual Highlights Alumni Center & Events Employment Frequently Asked Questions Financial Information Map and Directions Sponsorship Opportunities FSU Alumni Center Toggle navigation SECTION MENU About Us About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Annual Highlights Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Directory Below are some of the most frequently asked questions to the Florida State University Alumni Association. If you don't find the answer you need below, please call us at 850.644.2761 or e-mail us at alumni@fsu.edu. Membership Member Benefits Seminole Clubs Alumni Center Facilities Technology Returning to Campus General Questions Alumni Membership Why should I become a member of the FSU Alumni Association? Becoming a member of the FSU Alumni Association is the best and most direct avenue to stay connected with fellow alumni and the university. As a member, you also receive many benefits, including access to discount programs and services. Check out our Member Benefits page to learn more. What are the benefits of becoming a member of the FSU Alumni Association? Active membership in the FSU Alumni Association strengthens your alma mater, improves the value of your degree and enables you to stay connected to alumni and the university. In return for your continued support, the FSU Alumni Association provides exclusive member benefits, visit our Member Benefits page for the latest information. How do I find out detailed information about my benefits as a member? Log in to one.fsu.edu, click on the “Alumni” tab and then the “Benefits” tab. This will bring you to your private Member Benefits page, which also contains all promotional codes you will need. Is my membership to the FSU Alumni Association tax-deductible? The FSU Alumni Association is a tax-exempt organization under Sec. 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Gifts to the FSU Alumni Association are generally tax-deductible. Membership dues may be tax-deductible in whole or in part based on your individual circumstance. Please consult your tax advisor. How do I become a member of the FSU Alumni Association? Becoming a member of the FSU Alumni Association is easy. Just choose which membership level works best for you. For more information about membership, contact us at alumni@fsu.edu. Who is eligible to join the FSU Alumni Association? All Florida State alumni, as well as friends of the university, are eligible to be members of the FSU Alumni Association. How do I request a replacement membership card? Our membership cards are now digital! Download our mobile app and log in to view your personalized card at any time plus access benefit programs including Seminole Savings. We no longer mail a membership card to all new and renewing annual members; if you are unable to access the mobile app and would like to receive a printed card in the mail, please let us know. You may view and print a temporary copy of your membership card, for use at FSU Alumni Association events only, from our website. Log in to your oneFSU Dashboard and look under "My Relationships." You will see your membership listed; click on that link and you can print a Temporary Membership Card on the My Membership page. How do I use my member ID with EventBrite? Step 1: Log into your one.fsu.edu account. Step 2: Find your member ID at alumni.fsu.edu/app. Step 3: Use your member ID on the Eventbrite form or page where it says "Enter Promo Code" for your special membership discount! Back to Top Alumni Member Benefits How do I purchase a commemorative Westcott brick? Visit our Westcott bricks page to order online, or contact the Westscott Brick Program at 850.644.2761 or westscottbrick@fsu.edu. Do members of the FSU Alumni Association receive a discount on the purchase of a Westcott brick? Yes, as a member of the FSU Alumni Association, you are eligible for a discount on the purchase of a brick. Tile replicas are not discounted. Log in to your oneFSU account and visit our Westcott bricks page to view your discount. How long does it take to have a brick installed? Can I have this brick placed near or next to a brick already in Westcott Plaza? Approximately six months. You can place a rush order for an additional $60. Can I choose where I would like my brick placed? Yes, call 850.644.2761 to request specific placement. How do I find my commemorative brick? Bricks installed at Westcott Plaza are managed by the FSU Alumni Association. Call 850.644.2761 or email westscottbrick@fsu.edu for details on your brick’s specific location. Bricks installed along the Legacy Walk and around Doak S. Campbell Stadium are managed by Seminole Boosters Inc. Contact Maria Fuller at 850.644.3484 for more information. How do I receive my priority points with my membership? If your FSU Alumni Association member priority points are not reflected in your Seminole Athletics Ticket Office account, please contact us at 850.644.2761. How do I purchase a flag? You may purchase this year's FSU Alumni Association spirit flag through the FSU Alumni Reward Zone. A limited number of past designs may also be available. Be sure to post a photo on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram with #FSUFlagEnvy, and tell us where you wave yours! Back to Top Seminole Clubs and Chapters What is the purpose of a Seminole Club® or Chapter? Seminole Clubs® and Chapters provide FSU alumni and friends in a specific region or area with a connection to the university by hosting events throughout the year that inspire alumni to participate in community service, continuing education, networking and fun. Current Seminole Clubs® and Chapters are listed on our website. What is the difference between a Seminole Club® and Chapter? In order to create a Seminole Club®, it is required that an area have an alumni population of at least 250. For regions with less than 250 alumni, a Seminole Chapter can be created. How can I start a Seminole Club® or Chapter in my area? Information about starting a new club or chapter can be found on our website. How can I locate a fellow FSU alumnus? Our online Alumni Directory offers a simple way to help you locate fellow Florida State alumni. How many FSU alumni do we have? We currently have more than 360,000 Florida State alumni. How many alumni do we have in each state? You can see a complete listing of alumni by state and county in the FSU Office of Institutional Research Fact Book. Back to Top Alumni Center Facilities How do I reserve event space at the Alumni Center? Please contact Terry Daniel at 850.645.9255 or facilities@alumni.fsu.edu to determine availability. How far in advance should I reserve the Alumni Center for my wedding, party or event? It's never too early to reserve the venue. We recommend reserving as soon as you have a date for your event. Do you offer any discounts for FSU students or FSU Alumni Association members? We offer discounts to nonprofit organizations and Alumni Association members. Do I have to use your caterer? Yes. The FSU Alumni Association has entered into a partnership with Andrew’s Catering for all events. All catering for events at the Alumni Center must be through Andrew’s Catering. How many people can you accommodate for a wedding or party? It largely depends on the type of event and room you are interested in renting. However, we can accommodate anywhere from a five person meeting to 300 guests for a stand-up reception. Please visit our Rental Rates page for more information. Do I need insurance to have my wedding at the Alumni Center? Yes. We require a $1 million liability policy. This process is quite easy and efficient. Many insurance agencies will provide coverage with existing homeowners’ policies. In the absence of homeowners’ insurance, there are numerous providers, both locally and online, who can provide coverage at a very inexpensive rate. Do you have a dance floor? We do not provide a dance floor. However, you are more than welcome to rent one for your event. What is the alcohol policy for events at the Alumni Center? Our policy is consistent with all applicable state laws regarding alcohol consumption. Guests have the option of utilizing our full bar service through Andrew’s Catering. Also, guests are welcome to provide their own beverages for an event, but will need to utilize Andrew’s Catering for bartending services, mixers, ice, glassware, etc. Can I arrange for a tasting of the specific foods that I am interested in having at my reception? Yes, Andrew’s Catering would love for you to sample foods that you are interested in having. All tastings will take place at either Andrew’s Capital Grill & Bar or Andrew’s 228 Restaurant. A credit card will be needed at the tasting, but it will only be charged in the event Andrew’s does not cater your event. What is the average price range? Andrew’s takes pride in working within clients’ budget. Costs are itemized depending on food selections. Contact Andrew’s catering director for menus and to get started on your proposal. How involved is the caterer? Andrew’s Catering is a full-service caterer. With an experienced full-time event planner and many local contacts and resources, Andrew’s can provide assistance with everything from linen and centerpiece selections to glassware and china. Does the Alumni Center caterer bake wedding cakes? No, Andrew’s does not bake wedding cakes, however they can refer you to quality bakers in the area. If you would like Andrews’s staff to cut, plate, serve, bus and clean up, there is a $1.50 cutting fee. Back to Top Alumni Technology What is oneFSU? OneFSU is an online community for all members of the Florida State University family. It requires a login, allowing you access to specific information pertaining to your memberships with the FSU Alumni Association, Seminole Boosters, FSU Foundation and Ringling Museum of Art. You can also find old classmates in the Alumni Directory and update your contact information to stay connected to FSU news and events. How do I retrieve my user ID and/or password for oneFSU? Visit the oneFSU login page and click the “Forgotten Password” link to request your user ID and password be sent to you. If you don’t know which email address is associated with your oneFSU account or you no longer have access to that email, please email your request to webmaster@foundation.fsu.edu. I’m having trouble logging in to oneFSU. Who can help me? Please email webmaster@foundation.fsu.edu. How can I change my contact information? You are now able to manage your own contact information and communication preferences with oneFSU. Simply go to one.fsu.edu and create a profile. Please allow up to two business days for your profile to become active. Once your account is activated, you can log into the website and update your contact information. How do I access my FSU alumni email account? FSU has a set of powerful, cloud-based email, web and collaboration tools available to students and alumni. Your myFSU email account can be accessed at outlook.com/my.fsu.edu. Information about email account management for students and alumni is available on the FSU ITS website. How do I forward my FSU email to another address? Instructions for forwarding your myFSU email to another account is available on the FSU ITS website. Back to Top Returning to Campus If I don't live in Tallahassee, how can I stay involved with Florida State University? The FSU Alumni Association travels to many locations outside of Tallahassee. Be sure to check in with our events calendar to see the places we are visiting. We also have Seminole Clubs® and Chapters all over the world: find a club near you! What events does the FSU Alumni Association host? We host a variety of events throughout the year, including the Kickoff Luncheon, alumni reunions, Happy Hours, Seminoles at Sea Cruise and more. Check out the events calendar to see our upcoming events. How can I book a hotel room during my visit to Tallahassee? For lodging information, call 850.488.BEDS. If you’re in town for a football game, Seminole Boosters has joined with Game Time Travel to provide information on hotel availability during home football games. Visit their website to find out more. How can I purchase tickets to an FSU sports event? Tickets to all FSU athletics events can be purchased from the Seminole Athletics Ticket Office website or by calling 1.888.FSU.NOLE (358-6653). Keep in mind that one of the benefits of being a member of the FSU Alumni Association is two priority points toward purchasing season tickets for FSU sporting events. I received a parking citation from Transportation and Parking Services; what do I do? Parking citations can be paid or appealed online; visit the Transportation and Parking Services website for more information. How can I get around campus? The Seminole Express Bus Service provides transportation to, around and from campus to the surrounding Tallahassee areas for faculty, staff, students and visitors. Current hours and routes are listed at the Bus Service website. Where can I park on campus? There is no designated alumni parking on the FSU campus, however, there are visitor spaces in many parking lots across campus. More information on metered parking and visitor permits is available on the Transportation and Parking Services website. Information about parking and transportation for special events, such as football home games and FSU Flying High Circus performances, is also available online. What services from The Career Center are available to alumni? The following services are offered at no cost to FSU alumni: Counseling/advising for career planning and job search assistance Career/employer information Online job postings/job files Job search agents On-campus interviewing with recruiters from many professional organizations (up to one year after graduation) Career expositions Resume referral service Professional networking database For more information, visit The Career Center website or call 850.644.6431 How can alumni access the Leach Center or the new Fitness & Movement Clinic? FSU alumni may become a Campus Recreation member for a monthly fee. Campus Recreation Universal Memberships provide members with the following during normal operating hours: Unlimited access to the Leach Student Recreation Center Unlimited access to the Fitness & Movement Clinic Free gate admission to the FSU Reservation Waterfront Park Group fitness classes at the Leach Center and FMC Members also have access to the following programs and services at competitive rates: Wellness testing services at the FMC and Leach Center Fitness & Wellness talks and educational sessions Watercraft rental for use on Lake Bradford at the FSU Reservation Youth and adult swim lessons from FSU Aquatics at the Leach Center Visit the Campus Recreation website for more information. Back to Top General Questions How do I submit a "News Note" for the online Alumni Class Notes page? To submit your news for Class Notes, fill out the online form or email vires@alumni.fsu.edu How do I submit a "News Note" for VIRES®? Email vires@alumni.fsu.edu and please provide full name (maiden) and year of graduation. How do I submit an "In Memoriam" for VIRES®? Email updates@foundation.fsu.edu with full name of alumnus (maiden) and year of graduation along with the date of death and news service in which the obituary was published. Can I get an FSU license tag in my state? You can get an FSU license tag in the following states: Florida Alabama Georgia Maryland North Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Texas Virginia More information about FSU plates in other states. How do I order a new or replacement diploma? All diploma requests are handled by the Office of the University Registrar. To order a new or replacement diploma (size 11x14), you will need to submit a written request with your signature and the following information: Your name the way you would like it printed on the diploma. If your name has changed and you would like the new name printed on the diploma, provide proof of the name change in the form of a copy of a driver's license, marriage license, etc. The last four digits of your Social Security number. The semester and year of graduation and major/degree. Your mailing address. A $10.00 (per diploma) check or money order payable to Florida State University. Make sure you sign the request and mail it to the following address: Florida State University Room A3900 UCA 282 Champions Way P.O. Box 3062400 Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 How do I get memorabilia signed by the football coach? All items must go through the Memorabilia Office at Florida State. You may drop off the item or ship your item to be signed. The Memorabilia Office is located under the stadium in Gate B, Section 36. Please call 850.644.1376 for hours of operation. If you would like to ship an item to be signed, please include a return box/postage. You may ship items to the following address: FSU Memorabilia Office P.O. Box 2195 Tallahassee, FL 32316 Back to Top OFFICIAL PARTNERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Their generous support allows the FSU Alumni Association to provide programs, services and events to you. MEMBERS Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Member Perks Reward Zone Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks STUDENTS Student Alumni Association Join SAA Benefits of SAA Membership Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks HONORS Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award COMMUNITY Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Events Football HQ Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Travel Programs ABOUT US About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Sponsorship Opportunities ALUMNI CENTER Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions FSU Alumni Association 1030 W. Tennessee St. Tallahassee, FL 32304 Email Us (850) 644-2761 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright Close