Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events The College Alumni Program office of the Harvard Alumni Association plans events throughout the year to engage undergraduate students at Harvard College with members of their alumni community. We welcome you to take advantage of these opportunities. Learn More About the HAA Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Don’t wait until you get your diploma to engage with your alumni community. The College Alumni Programs office of the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) plans events throughout the year to engage undergraduate students at Harvard College with members of their alumni community. We hope you’ll join us for one of these opportunities! First-Year Convocation Convocation welcomes the incoming first-year students to Harvard College, providing them with an understanding of the values, history, and traditions of the institution. On September 1, 2009, Harvard College inaugurated a new tradition of formally welcoming the incoming first-year students. The Class of 2013 experienced the first First-Year Convocation, a celebratory ceremony akin to the ritual pomp and circumstance of Commencement. The tradition of Convocation has continued each year since. Leading up to Convocation for the Class of 2025, Harvard alumni and friends from across the globe sent first-year students words of welcome and their pro tips on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter. You can check out all of the messages below! Social Feed HAA Info Sessions Ever wondered what the Harvard Alumni Association is, or how to get involved? Want to learn how to connect with alumni now and stay connected to this community in the years to come? Looking for a mentor who has been in your shoes? Wondering how to join a Club or a Shared Interest Group? The HAA hosts information sessions throughout the year for students to learn more about our organization and the resources available to you. Networking 101 Networking 101 events, planned in partnership between the HAA and House Tutors with additional resources provided by the Office of Career Services, allow for students to learn about HAA resources that can connect them with the alumni community and practice networking tips and tricks with alumni in a casual setting. These are not hiring or recruiting events, but simply an opportunity for students to become more comfortable with networking in large groups, while meeting new members of the Harvard community. Following a short presentation on HAA resources and the basics of networking, you will be able to practice your skills in a series of breakouts. Note that these are not career-specific sessions, but an opportunity for you to learn about and practice networking and meet new members of the Harvard student and alumni community! Alumni Coffee Chats The Alumni Coffee Chats program is designed to connect undergraduate students with alumni over conversation. Students are encouraged to reach out to alumni in the Career Network in the HAA Alumni Directory and on the Office of Career Services' Firsthand Advisers platform during Flash Mentoring Month in January to set up informal meetings with alumni. This is a great opportunity to get career advice on different pathways, strengthen your informational interviewing skills, expand your support network as you consider opportunities beyond Harvard, learn about their student and alumni life experience, and more! While January is a great time to set up Coffee Chats, note that you have access to these platforms to connect with alumni year-round and can reach out them at any time. Class Color Connect Class Color Connect provides sophomores with the opportunity to come together as a class during a year of entering new House and academic communities, as well as meet recent graduate alumni members of their class color community. The class colors tradition at Harvard dates back to 1882, when seniors, juniors, and sophomores on the crew team were assigned a color to represent class identity: green (for Dartmouth), blue (for Yale), and orange (for Princeton). This tradition was revived with the Class of 2012. Class Families Class Families provides juniors with the opportunity to come together as a class, as well as meet alumni members of their Class Family. The end of your junior year is a time to reflect on your Harvard experience so far and think about how to make the most of your upcoming final year at Harvard. We hope you take this opportunity to reconnect with your class community and Class Family ahead of your senior year! The junior class is part of a Class Family that includes their Sibling Class (the class five years removed), their Parent Class (the class twenty-five years removed), and their Grandparent Class (the class fifty years removed). Student Organization Alumni Engagement Info Sessions The HAA hosts information sessions throughout the year for leaders of student organizations to learn more about our organization and the resources available to student organizations to connect with their alumni members. These sessions will cover the importance of keeping in touch with alumni members, as well as how to track alumni members, how to send them email communications, and how to best engage them with your group. Public Interested Conference Public Interested is a collaborative event coordinated by the Center for Public Service & Engaged Scholarship at Harvard College. This conference is designed to allow students to explore various public interest topics and careers and network with alumni working in and interested in those fields. Alumni and students can hear from inspiring speakers, interact with other alumni, participate in engaging activities, and meet peers who share a passion for public service. Winter Recess and Wintersession The HAA partners with campus partners and alumni volunteers to offer programs and events that connect alumni and students during the winter break. Wintersession, the last week of Winter Recess before classes begin, is a time when students may participate in programs that encourage personal reflection, intellectual curiosity, and social interaction. Senior Year Programming The HAA organizes additional student-alumni engagement programming for seniors in partnership with the Class Committee. Events include a Senior Thesis Study Break Dinner for thesis-writing seniors with alumni who wrote a thesis, an HAA Info Session specifically for seniors as they are about to graduate, and a social event with the HAA Board of Directors to connect with alumni volunteers by geographic region. Do you have questions or program ideas? Contact John Prince AB ’13, ALM ’18, Associate Director of College Alumni Programs at the Harvard Alumni Association. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College