Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Features Congratulations graduates, and welcome to the Yale alumni community! | Posted May 23, 2022 One of the great things about Yale is that, while you may embark on future careers, further studies, and all the other journeys of a long, interesting life, Yale never leaves you. You are – and always will be – a Yalie. And as such, you have a place with the Yale Alumni Association. First, the good news: You don’t need to join. You’re already in! The YAA is for all Yale alumni, and we work with fellow alums to create ways for you to connect with your classmates, those from your school, and all who came before you – and those who will come after. Here are just some of the benefits of being an alum and a few ways you can stay connected and engaged with Yale and the Yale community: Groups Connect with your regional Yale club to get together and network with alumni locally. Get involved in a shared interest or identity group and engage with other alums through affiliations, identities, and professions, cutting across class years, schools, and regional areas. Volunteer with your Yale College class. Connect with your graduate or professional school alumni association. Connect The Yale Online Alumni Directory is a great way to stay in touch with your friends and classmates. And be sure to keep your contact information up to date so you don’t miss out on Yale events in your area or campus news that may be of interest to you. Another way to maintain your Yale connection is by obtaining a Yale-branded email address (name@aya.yale.edu). YaleMail is a fully functional, web-based email service for alumni, offered through Google Apps for Education. You can link your YaleMail account to other Gmail accounts, or forward to another email address, if desired. Mentoring, Networking, and Interviewing Join the approximately 20,000 Yalies on Cross Campus, Yale’s online community-building, mentoring, and networking platform. There, you can join one of Cross Campus’ many groups, ask questions, network with fellow Yalies, and apply to be paired with an alum to be your dedicated mentor (there were 4,000 mentor/mentee pairings last year alone). Get involved in Careers, Life, and Yale: Find, organize, and attend events, and maybe even serve on a CLY panel. Interview Yale College applicants (in person or virtually) for Yale’s Admissions Office. Service Participate in or organize a Yale Day of Service event. Day of Service is celebrated each spring, and opportunities to give back to your local community take place all year long. Travel with Yale Alumni Service Corps to contribute your time and energy to communities in need. Support Volunteer to fundraise for your class or school, including through the For Humanity campaign, to provide resources and support for generations of students to come. Learn more about applying for the Yale MasterCard, which generates support for alumni programs and events. Lifelong Learning Take part in lifelong learning opportunities through Yale Alumni Academy, Yale Alumni College, and via the YAA’s and Yale’s many online resources. Take advantage of Yale alumni access to JSTOR to keep those intellectual fires burning. Visit the Virtual YAA page to learn, discover, and engage with online offerings from YAA interest groups, regional clubs, and Yale College classes. Search through our collected videos, podcasts, and more from the YAA and throughout the university. Social Follow @YaleAlumni on Twitter, Instagram, and TikTok, as well as the Yale Alumni Association on Facebook, and join the Yale alumni closed Facebook group. The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and many of the professional schools also have their own dedicated Facebook pages and social channels. Check out our latest videos and series on the YAA YouTube channel. And watch all our collected videos and webinars on our on-demand Vimeo channel. Attend a Feb Club event to keep the fun going or host a Camp Yale event this summer in your area. Reunions Yale College alumni: You can plan a class event, be it online or in person, and it’s never too soon to think about your fifth reunion. It will be here before you know it. You can also get involved with BOLD (Bulldogs of the Last Decade) – you’re already a member. Many of the professional schools also host reunions. Check with your school to learn more. So, whether you’ve graduated from Yale College, completed your professional school degree, or defended your PhD, congratulations! This is an incredible accomplishment; you should be very proud. And remember, we’re here whenever and however you need us. We’re so happy to have you as part of our Yale alumni family! Tags About YAA, Graduate & Professional, Students Share Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email You May Also Be Interested In Features Mark Koyama ’15 MDiv leads a quilting ministry to remember George Floyd’s last words Features Friendship and gratitude mark the 321st Commencement News An alumni ceremony for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 News Yale School of Music: May Alumni News Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page