Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Learn Your learning life doesn’t end when you complete your studies on campus. The Yale Alumni Association wants to help you satisfy your intellectual curiosity and continue to expand your horizons. Whether it’s attending a faculty lecture in your local area, going on a trip across the world, returning to study on campus, or simply opening your computer, we have resources to ensure that your Yale learning experience lasts a lifetime. Information Links Remote Learning Opportunities Learn Online A world of knowledge awaits, and it’s just a click away. Whether it’s lectures or talks, podcasts, or videos, there is a vast trove of study available to Yale alumni – and available online. Coursera allows you to take a Yale class from the comfort of your couch, JSTOR gives you access to millions of academic journals, and iTunesU and other Yale recordings bring the teachings of the university’s vast and varied academic offerings to life – right on your computer, tablet, or phone. Get Started Yale Alumni Academy Learn Through Travel Have you ever dreamed about studying turtles in the Galapagos? Unlocking the mysteries of Tibet? Exploring Cuba’s southern shore? Yale Alumni Academy affords these opportunities. With Yale professors as your guide, you’ll embark on a journey of discovery that goes beyond visiting a new place or experiencing a new culture – virtually or in person! It’s all that and more, with the opportunity to expand your base of knowledge in some of the most amazing places on Earth. Get Started Learning Opportunities Learn Near You When it comes to lifelong learning, sometimes you need to stay close to home. So Yale comes to you! Through Yale Alumni College (local courses taught by Yale faculty and alumni) and our faculty speakers program (Yale professors speaking at regional club events), we bring some of Yale’s brightest minds to your doorstep. Start Now Return to Yale Learn on Campus You may no longer be a Yale student, but you can still study like one. By taking classes with fellow alumni, friends, and family through Yale Alumni College or by auditing Yale courses, you can pursue your passion for learning back on campus. Learn More about Learn on Campus Lifelong Learning Opportunities Travel with Yale Take a Course Near You Study on Campus Yale Online Courses with Coursera Yale Podcasts (iTunesU) Free Online Academic Journals Connect with Yale Additional Links Connect Online Yalies are social people, and in an ever-connected world, social media is a great way to keep up with all the latest news about Yale, fellow alumni, programs of interest, events, and more. Follow Us Update Your Information Keep your contact information up to date so you don't miss out on events in your area or campus news of interest. You can update your contact information through the Online Alumni Community and manage your email preferences there as well. Log In Now Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page