Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Homecoming You are here: Home1 / Events2 / Homecoming Homecoming Come home to Clemson and celebrate with your fellow alumni at Homecoming 2021! Homecoming is a great opportunity for alumni to return home to Clemson and meet up with old friends, classmates and enjoy the fun and excitement all over campus. Each year, the alumni association invites alumni back for various tailgates associated with clubs, groups and colleges. The alumni association provides details for these events several weeks prior to homecoming to ensure alumni have a full itinerary before arriving back on campus. Come home to Clemson October 2, 2021 and celebrate with your fellow alumni at Homecoming 2021! 2021 Homecoming Events Add Your Homecoming Events Tell us what events your organization is planning for Homecoming 2021 here. To submit more information, a PDF flier or for questions, please contact Dana Morgan. Update Your Info Tell us where you are and what you’re doing by updating your contact information. If we know where you are, we can tell you about upcoming events! For questions, please contact Dana Morgan. Homecoming Event Form Organizer Full Name* Organizer Phone Number* Phone number alumni association can contact for more information or questions. Organizer Email Address* Email address Alumni Associaiton can reach out to for more infomration Name of Event* Group Coordinating the Event* Email Address for More Information Provide if someone who needs more information can email the event organizer. Phone Number for More Information Provide if someone needing more information can reach the organizer by phone. Date of Event* Start Time of Event* End Time of Event Event Location* Event URL Type of Event* Choose OneTailgateTourLunchDinnerPre-Game EventDrop-InViewing PartyOther Description of Event* Specific Details/Directions to the Event: Is an RSVP required for the event? Yes No If "Yes," where should a person RSVP for this event? CAPTCHA Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info