Skip to main content Menu College Reunions Class Programming General Information Accommodations Childcare HAA Crimson Society SIG Meet-Up Events Mini-Reunions Radcliffe Institute Programs Virtual Programs Frequently Asked Questions HAA Crimson Society The HAA Crimson Society looks forward to its official in-person launch June 2–3, 2022! Directly below you will see the schedule of events for this in-person celebration. This year, registration for the Crimson Society celebration will be available online or through a mailed paper form. Both options will include registration for the traditional Tree Spread, the Alumni Parade, and Harvard Alumni Day. If you have any questions, please email us at haa_crimsonsociety@harvard.edu. Register NowWho's ComingPricing Schedule Thursday Friday Check In Opens Thursday, June 2, 10:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m. Cabot Library, Science Center Check in and pick up your name tag. Your name tag will serve as your ticket for all Crimson Society events. Thursday, June 2 Noon–1:30 p.m. Box Lunch Lunch will be served in a tent located in the Old Yard between Matthews and Weld. 2:00–3:00 p.m. Symposia Session, Lowell Lecture Hall This session will feature Professor Michael Puett, Walter C. Klein Professor of Chinese History and Anthropology, who will discuss what Chinese philosophers can teach us about the good life. 3:00–3:30 p.m. Coffee Break 3:30–4:30 p.m. Symposia Session, Lowell Lecture Hall This session will feature Professor Richard F. Thomas, George Martin Lane Professor of the Classics, who will discuss why Bob Dylan deserves his Nobel Prize. 6:00–9:00 p.m. Dinner, Foster's Clam Bake A traditional New England Clam Bake will be held in a tent located in the Old Yard between Matthews and Weld. Friday, June 3 Friday Check In Opens 8:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. Cabot Library, Science Center Check in and pick up your name tag. Your name tag will serve as your ticket for all Crimson Society events. 10:00–11:00 a.m. Keynote Session, Lowell Lecture Hall This keynote will feature Danielle Allen, James Bryant Conant University Professor, on ethics and democracy. Noon–1:30 p.m. Tree Spread Lunch Lunch will be served in a tent located outside of Phillips Brooks House. 1:30–4:00 p.m. Harvard Alumni Day, Tercentenary Theatre A University-wide, global event honoring alumni impact, citizenship, and community. The time-honored and festive alumni parade led by the eldest alumni into Tercentenary Theatre will kick off the afternoon festivities. Following the parade, the program, led by the HAA president Vanessa W. Liu AB ’96, JD ’03, will feature former poet laureate, Pulitzer-prize winner, and Harvard Professor Tracy K. Smith AB ’94 as the Harvard Alumni Day keynote speaker. The speaking program will also include a report from Harvard President Lawrence S. Bacow MPP ’76, JD ’76, PhD ’78, and a celebration of Harvard Medalists, along with musical components, and recognition of the Chief Marshal of Alumni Allyson Hobbs AB '97. Back to top About the Crimson Society For additional details about the Crimson Society, you may watch this video and explore the following links: View Crimson Society FAQs See Committee Members Browse Upcoming Webinars Browse Educational Resources Thank You A special thank you to our Crimson Society Planning Committee members, who have helped realize the vision and goals of the Crimson Society: Mrs. Joyce Curll AB '65, Committee Tri-Chair Mr. Randolph Lindel AB '66, Committee Tri-Chair Ms. Ann Porter AB '62, Committee Tri-Chair Dr. Robert Blacklow AB '55, MD '59 Mr. Edward Bursk AB '54, MBA '59 Mrs. Emilie de Brigard AB '64 Mr. Francis Donovan AB '59 Mr. Gregory Downes AB '61 Mr. Frederick Fortmiller AB '51, MBA '53 Mr. Ronald Goodman AB '60 Eva Kampits AB '68 Dr. Richard Kopelman AB '70 Mr. Kenneth Ledeen AB '67 Dr. Michael Margolies AB '58 Mr. William E. Markus AB '60 Cecily Morse AB '62 Joan O'Connor RAD '60 Mrs. Jane Otte AB '61 Mrs. Katharine Redmond AB '65, EdM '66 Mr. Nicholas Sakellariadis AB '73, JD '77, MBA '77 Ms. Deborah Smullyan AB '72 Dr. Donna Gibson Stone AB '66 Ted Wendell AB '62 Newsletter Archive The HAA Crimson Society Newsletter is sent to all members periodically. The newsletter includes details about upcoming programming, projects, educational opportunities, and any additional relevant information. Below you will find printable PDFs of past issues of the Crimson Society Newsletter: Winter 2021 Past Programs Sep 22 Reunion Virtual A Conversation with President Bacow Nov 01 Lecture/Reading/Talk Reunion Virtual Life Through Letters: Following Friendships from Harvard and Beyond Harvard Alumni Association Harvard Library HAA Crimson Society Nov 16 Reunion A Conversation with Erin McDermott Dec 09 Reunion A Student's History of Harvard College with Zachary Nowak Jan 19 Reunion Virtual A Conversation with Sherri Charleston Feb 03 Lecture/Reading/Talk Virtual How to Make Democracy Work HAA Crimson Society Feb 23 Reunion A Conversation with Claudine Gay Mar 23 Reunion Virtual A Conversation with Tomiko Brown-Nagin Apr 19 Reunion A Conversation with Alan Garber Apr 27 Virtual Poetry Event with the Harvard-Radcliffe Class of 1962 May 03 Reunion A Conversation with Annette Gordon-Reed May 12 Reunion A Conversation with Rakesh Khurana, Katie O'Dair, and Amanda Claybaugh May 27 Reunion Virtual Radcliffe College Alumnae Oral History Project Educational Resources The Learning in Retirement Subcommittee of the Crimson Society Planning Committee provides current links and guides to the educational opportunities available to members. Retire, learn, and enjoy. Harvard Online Courses: Harvard online course offerings. Professional and Lifelong Learning: Harvard University classes in person, online, and blended options available From Harvard Yard to Your Home: An extensive Harvard travel link. Radcliffe Institute: Radcliffe's trove of information and resources. Harvard Smartphone App: Harvard's live application to download to your smartphone, supplies a current update to happenings and more at Harvard. The Harvard Gazette: Daily Harvard Gazette, includes extensive listings of current events. Harvard Museums of Science and Culture: Free video lectures, podcasts, live-stream guided exhibit visits, and more. Class Central: Free online Harvard University courses. Harvard X for Alumni: Entrance to free courses from the University for Harvard alumni. EdX Courses: Free Massive Online Open Courses (MOOCs) designed for Harvard alumni. Coursera: Learning site that collaborates with over 190 universities. Harvard Art Museums: Lectures, virtual tours, and information from the Harvard Art Museums. Accessibility | Privacy | Terms of Use © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College