Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Travel Travel Resources Travel can come with a lot of questions. Below you will find a list of resources we have put together to help answer some of those questions. Menu Main menu Travel Overview Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List Harvard Resources Harvard Alumni Travels FAQ A list of frequently asked questions to assist you with making your decision to register for a trip. Harvard Global Support Services GSS provides the Harvard community with international travel, research, and programming support in areas that span safety and security, health, culture, outbound immigration, employment, financial and legal matters, and research center operations. Harvard Alumni Travels Facebook Page Stay up to date with university events and lectures, view past trip photos, keep up-to-date on travel news, and more! Subscribe to the Harvard Alumni Travels Mailing List Would you like to receive Harvard Alumni Travels mailings? Complete this form to receive our brochures and catalog. Harvard Faculty Reading List Find a selection of titles written or edited by Harvard faculty. This list, organized alphabetically by author’s last name, has been prepared by the Harvard COOP and the titles are available for purchase in store or online. Harvard University List of Centers Harvard University has a multitude of resources and centers. Harvard’s centers provide additional insight and timely information into countries across the globe. Find a list of Harvard’s centers and institutes including links and descriptions. Harvard Study Leader Recommended Readings by Destination Find an assortment of destination-based readings recommended by our Harvard study leaders to further your exploration prior to or after returning from a trip. External Resources Redpoint Travel Protection Harvard Alumni Travels recommends purchasing trip cancellation insurance. Travel insurance is a plan you purchase that protects you from certain financial risks and losses that can occur while traveling. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention As the nation's health protection agency, the CDC protects people from health, safety, and security threats, while providing important information regarding health issues across the globe. U.S. Department of State Travel Information Find important travel advisories, advice on international travel, and information and materials on passport and visa applications. STEP Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) is a free service that allows U.S. citizens and nationals traveling abroad to enroll their trip with the nearest U.S. embassy or consulate. CIBT Visas CIBT provides services for travelers looking to apply for, renew, or expedite a passport. United Kingdom Travel Advice Get advice about traveling abroad, including the latest information on coronavirus, safety and security, entry requirements, and travel warnings. TSA (Transportation Security Administration) Obtain up-to-date security and travel information from the TSA. World Clock Find time and dates for cities in all time zones, including the international time right now. Also find current weather, sunrise/set, moon phase, and much more to help you plan. Foreign Currency Converter Universal, interactive, live currency converter. FlightView Track flights, manage itineraries, access arrival and departure boards, stay informed about airport delays, and be prepared for your trips with their weather forecasts. For More Information Contact Us Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College