Skip to main content Alumni & Friends Support GSD Funding Priorities Giving Opportunities Josep Lluís Sert Council Planned Giving Ways to Give to the GSD News News & Stories Alumni Updates Alumni Events Alumni Resources Alumni Council Dean’s Leadership Council Give Search Give Support GSD Funding Priorities Giving Opportunities Josep Lluís Sert Council Planned Giving Ways to Give to the GSD News News & Stories Alumni Updates Alumni Events Alumni Resources Alumni Council Dean’s Leadership Council Give Search Josep Lluís Sert Council Join a circle of donors who believe in the transformational power of design education. The Josep Lluís Sert Council is a community of annual leadership donors who are committed to supporting the Harvard Graduate School of Design, its students, and the future of design education. Sert Council members play an integral role in advancing the GSD’s preeminent status and provide essential funding to support our students, faculty, and degree programs. Sert Council members provide the GSD with immediate-use support. Members of the Josep Lluís Sert Council provide the school with the resources needed to support our students and faculty, who together create meaningful change and impact the future of design. Annual giving opportunities include: GSD Fund for Financial Aid Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund Degree Program Funds: MArch, MAUD, MDes, MLA, MUP Dean’s Innovation Fund Friends of the Frances Loeb Library To learn more about additional opportunities to support the GSD and become a Sert Council member, please contact us. Connect with the GSD throughout the year. In recognition of their annual leadership support, members are invited to attend exclusive events, receive publications and communications, and participate in special opportunities. Sert Council programs invite members to engage with fellow alumni and designers while participating in thought-provoking industry conversation. Programs often feature GSD and Harvard faculty, current students, and regional alumni leaders. Donors who support the GSD with annual leadership gifts are recognized through Sert Council membership levels: Associate: Annual contributors of $1,000 to $4,999 Alumni who graduated 0 to 5 years ago are recognized for contributions of $100 or more Alumni who graduated 6 to 10 years ago are recognized for contributions of $250 or more Partner: Annual contributors of $5,000 to $9,999 Principal: Annual contributors of $10,000 to $24,999 Dean’s Circle: Annual contributors of $25,000 or more Who was Josep Lluís Sert? Josep Lluís Sert, Dean of the Harvard University Graduate School of Design from 1953 to 1969, was a globally recognized architect and visionary leader whose unique perspective on cross-disciplinary training has become a hallmark of the School. Under his tenure, the GSD initiated the world’s first urban design degree, which continues to define the field on a global scale. The School is committed to building on Sert’s legacy by addressing complex issues around the world. The Josep Lluís Sert Council is an important component in fulfilling this ambitious goal. Our Team FAQs Resource Library 2020-2021 Giving Report alumni@gsd.harvard.edu Development and Alumni Relations Harvard University Graduate School of Design 48 Quincy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 FacebookTwitterInstagramLinkedinYoutube-play Make a Difference. Support the GSD. Give Digital Accessibility Privacy