Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Maddock Alumni Center This beautiful historic house is alumni central—a place for you to work or to relax. Breadcrumb Home Benefits Savings & Perks Sub Navigation In This Section Insurance Banking & Credit Cards Branded Items Maddock Alumni Center Brick Walkway Here, you can rendezvous with other Brunonians, get information on things to do in the area, or simply to stroll the beautiful walkway and garden. Mondays through Fridays, you are always welcome to pop in at 38 Brown Street. Mid-August through June 30: 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. July and early August: 8:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. Meet with other Bears. Want to meet a friend, but don't fancy standing outside in the Providence rain, sleet or snow? Please come in and make yourself comfortable in one of several sitting rooms. Make the most of your campus visit. At Maddock, you'll find one-stop shopping for information on campus tours, libraries, local accommodations, local restaurant listings (often with some informed advice as to what to try—or not), what's going on, and complimentary passes for the Faculty Club. On business? At Maddock, you'll also receive help connecting to the University Internet, and the staff can offer you a quiet place to work. Engage with Brown. Stop in to find out how you can become involved in or support one or more of the many BAA programs that serve Brown students, potential students, and alumni. It's an opportunity to get behind and be a part of an ever-evolving Brown. Enjoy this architectural gem. Named in honor of Paul L. Maddock '33, the Maddock Alumni Center occupies the former home of Chancellor William Goddard, Class of 1846, whose family built the house around 1830. Read the Maddock Guide. Stroll the Maddock Walkway and garden. The Alumni Brick Walkway, home to thousands of bricks honoring Brown alumni, parents and friends, enables alumni to celebrate their lifelong connection to Brown. Celebrate your connection and support alumni programs by purchasing a brick for this centerpiece of Maddock's beautifully landscaped garden. Related Links Alumni Brick Walkway Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Maddock Alumni Center Open details for Maddock Alumni Center Bookmark this Page