Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Gift Planning IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution (QCD) Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution FAQs Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers For individuals age 70 1⁄2 or older, the IRA QCD is a tax-wise way to support Harvard. If you are required to make annual withdrawals from your IRA, these otherwise taxable distributions can satisfy your annual Required Minimum Distribution and exclude the funds from your taxable income. The QCD can be particularly beneficial if you do not itemize and take the standard deduction. Each year, you (and your spouse) can transfer as much as $100,000 to Harvard College* for a purpose that you choose. What are the benefits? Transfer tax-free gifts from your IRA directly to Harvard Can be applied toward your annual Required Minimum Distribution Beneficial for individuals who do not itemize deductions on their income tax Withdrawals not subject to annual charitable deduction limitations IRA gifts may be used to satisfy multiyear gift pledges Can be used to create an endowed scholarship or other permanent fund—alone or combined with the legacy pledge To initiate the transfer, contact your IRA administrator. Questions? For answers to our most frequently asked questions about the IRA QCD, please click here. *or the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, or other programs of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Contact Us Email: ogp@harvard.edu Phone: 617-496-3205 or 1-800-VERITAS (ask for the Office of Gift Planning) Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College