Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Harvard Alumni Travels From the turquoise glaciers of Antarctica to the breathtaking landscapes of Vietnam, travel with us to learn about and explore destinations across every continent. Upcoming Trips Travel Talks Virtual Travel Guides Menu Main menu Travel Overview Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List 2023-2024 Harvard Alumni Trips in Development We hope you will join us in embracing this magnificent world and the sites that bring us together. Here is a preview of trips to come in 2023 and 2024! Click here to view a list of Trips in Development Click here to view details of Confirmed Trips About the Travel Program Harvard Alumni Travels is your guide to discovering the world. Here are a few highlights of our educational travel programs: Expert Harvard faculty members on every trip More than 80 destinations across all seven continents Options for all experience and activity levels, from programs off the beaten path to more traditional trips Meet and travel with fellow Harvard alumni from all over the world Also experience travel from home and immerse yourself in a world of different destinations from your computer, join us for our Travel Talks lecture series or explore our collection of virtual travel guides. Contact Us To learn more about Harvard Alumni Travels or any of our programs, contact us at haatravels@harvard.edu or call (617) 496-0806. Featured Trips Aug 27, 2022 - Sep 4, 2022 Grand Canyon & Utah: Mighty 5 National Park Adventure Study Leader(s): Sahand Hormoz, Assistant Professor of Systems Biology Activity Level 4 Adventure through the epic scenery of the Southwest while exploring the Grand Canyon National Park and the famed Utah Mighty Five (Zion, Bryce Canyon, Capitol Reef, Canyonlands, and Arches National Parks)! Sep 21, 2022 - Oct 2, 2022 Cruising the Adriatic: The Best of Slovenia and Croatia on Queen Eleganza Study Leader(s): Peter W. Galbraith Ship: Queen Eleganza Activity Level 3 In a region well worth exploring for its natural beauty alone, visit spellbinding archaeological sites, impressive cathedrals, dramatic palaces, and ancient city centers that illuminate the layered history of the Dalmatian Coast. Oct 14, 2022 - Oct 26, 2022 In the Footsteps of St. James: Camino de Santiago Study Leader(s): Activity Level 4 This special journey in the paths of the faithful seekers of Northern Spain promises a trip through history and culture, art and architecture, and the heights of human wonder. Travel Trips Our friendly team can offer insights and answer any questions you may have. Simply call 800-422-1636 or email haatravels and we’ll be happy to assist you. View All Travel Trips By Sea Sports Programs Rivers & Lakes Family Adventures Land Spring Break Rail HBS Exclusive Travel Talks Lecture Series Each month, Travel Talks lecture series delivers stimulating discussions, evoking the spirit of educational engagement with Harvard study leaders. View All Travel Lectures Travel Guides Our free virtual guides provide a curated collection of videos, podcasts, and recommended readings, as well as lectures and articles from Harvard professors, to help you explore and connect with a destination from the comfort of home. View All Travel Guides February 14, 2021 Antarctica Virtual Travel Guide On this virtual journey, explore Antarctica, Earth’s last frontier. Take in its natural beauty, from turquoise glaciers to bustling penguin rookeries, and learn about the history of its exploration and how climate change is affecting the ice sheets today. January 24, 2021 South Africa Virtual Travel Guide On this virtual journey, experience the wonder and awe of this captivating country. Tour Robben Island, home to the infamous prison where Nelson Mandela was imprisoned, look out for the “Big Five” on a game drive through Kruger National Park, or or learn about the special wines of South Africa. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College