Skip to main content Alumni & Friends Support GSD Funding Priorities Giving Opportunities Josep Lluís Sert Council Planned Giving Ways to Give to the GSD News News & Stories Alumni Updates Alumni Events Alumni Resources Alumni Council Dean’s Leadership Council Give Search Give Support GSD Funding Priorities Giving Opportunities Josep Lluís Sert Council Planned Giving Ways to Give to the GSD News News & Stories Alumni Updates Alumni Events Alumni Resources Alumni Council Dean’s Leadership Council Give Search GSD Funding Priorities Dear Alumni and Friends, Welcome to the Harvard GSD Alumni and Friends website. This is a place to reconnect and gather the latest happenings for our valued alumni and GSD friends. Our goal is for you to connect with the GSD, collaborate, learn, and engage in a variety of meaningful ways. Solving critical global challenges through design is at the heart of all the work we do as a school. And the time, energy, and resources of our community directly impact our abilities to research, execute, and create change. As we think about the future in the aftershocks of COVID-19, design plays a more critical role than ever before. As design leaders, we are at the innovation nexus of new thinking and implementation of new practices. Our work at the GSD enables our students to grow, enhance their skills and talents, and become future leaders in the fields they choose. Their broad impact is important and immeasurable. To make this happen, we focus on the priorities of the school, which will always include student support, faculty research funds, and innovative program support. The value of the GSD boils down to this: People who make wonderful, ambitious work happen here, and then go out as alumni to change the world—our students, faculty, staff, alumni, and friends. We invite you to explore ways to connect with the school and provide financial support. You can find a list of our dean’s priorities that impact students and faculty and fund valued programs. Please consider helping us in one of these areas. Over the next few months, we will be populating the areas below with detailed descriptions of various ways you might consider ensuring the future of the GSD. Student Support Faculty Support Program Support, Research, and Publications In addition, we have many annual giving opportunities if you would like to make a meaningful gift this year. Annual giving is the lifeblood of much of what we do and offers discretionary support for areas in need of critical funding. I’d like to point you to our Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund, which was created in 2020 to raise awareness of how race, racism, and racial injustice affect society (with a focus on the design fields) while promoting a culture of anti-racism at the GSD. As many of you know firsthand, design school at the graduate level is an endeavor that requires significant focus with the goal of inspiring and transforming the world. For more than 80 years, the Harvard Graduate School of Design has continued to pursue the mission of educating leaders in design, research, and scholarship to make a resilient, just, and beautiful world. We look forward to seeing you at events (on Zoom, and later in-person), hearing your stories, connecting over causes close to your heart, and working together to support design students as they follow in our alumni’s path and seek to change the world. And please remember that this will always be your community too. If you have questions, comments, updates, or just want to say hi, please connect. I am always here for you! Joyfully yours, Peggy Burns Associate Dean Development and Alumni Relations Support the GSD No matter the size, every gift matters. Give Our Team FAQs Resource Library 2020-2021 Giving Report alumni@gsd.harvard.edu Development and Alumni Relations Harvard University Graduate School of Design 48 Quincy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 FacebookTwitterInstagramLinkedinYoutube-play Make a Difference. Support the GSD. Give Digital Accessibility Privacy