Skip to main content Cornell University Library Cornell University Library Home Campaign Give to the Library Honor with Books Advisory Council Alumni and Friends Electronic Resources Cornell University Library is pleased to provide Cornell alumni with several library services for their personal use. If you have questions about Alumni access to these resources, please use Alumni Ask a Librarian. As a Cornell alumnus, you may access these resources using your Cornell NetID. If you do not have a NetID, you can request one through Alumni Affairs. Academic Search™ Alumni Edition Academic Search™ Alumni Edition is designed for the continuing education needs of post-college professionals. The database provides full text for more than 3,350 journals, as well as indexing and abstracting for more than 8,200 journals. The database … Adam Matthew Digital Adam Matthew publishes unique primary source collections from archives around the world. Collections span the social sciences and humanities and cover a multitude of topics ranging from Medieval manuscripts and Victorian moving images to ephemera … AGRICOLA Produced by the National Agricultural Library, AGRICOLA (AGRICultural OnLine Access) contains bibliographic records of materials acquired by the National Agricultural Library and cooperating institutions in agricultural and related sciences. Records … Berg Fashion Library The Berg Fashion Library provides integrated text and image content about world dress and fashion throughout history. The database offers fully cross-searchable access to an expanding range of Berg content collections, including the Encyclopedia of … Business Source® Alumni Edition Business Source® Alumni Edition includes full-text sources ranging from general periodicals to trade publications. Additional full-text sources include country economic reports, industry reports, market research reports, and company profiles. This … Cambridge Histories Online Provides full text online access to the complete 300-plus volumes of Cambridge Histories reference series. Provides political, economic and social history, philosophy and literature of selected countries and subjects. Cornell Alumni Magazine (2001-present) This collection contains the oldest published issues of the Cornell Alumni Magazine, from Vol. 104 (2001/02) through Vol. 109 (2006/07). Current issues of the Cornell Alumni Magazine are available at http://cornellalumnimagazine.com. Cornell University History: A Research Guide The object of this research guide is to bring together resources available in or through the University Library, primarily Olin Library and the University Archives in the Rare and Manuscript Collections, for researching questions about the history of … Directory of Open Access Journals Categorized, searchable links to free, full text, quality controlled scientific and scholarly journals. Duke University Press About 50 e-journals in the e-Duke Journals Scholarly Collections, primarily in arts, humanities, and the social sciences. ERIC : Education Resources Information Center Available from the U.S. Government Printing Office. The ERIC collection is a Web-based digital library of free education-related sources of interest to educators, researchers, and the general public, and consists primarily of electronic bibliographic … HathiTrust Digital Library HathiTrust is a partnership of major research institutions and libraries working to ensure that the cultural record is preserved and accessible long into the future. The Cornell University Library is a member. The Digital Library includes many books … HeinOnline: Law Journal Library & American Bar Association Law Library Periodicals Law Journal Library contains more than 1,700 law and law-related journals with a broad range of coverage. ABA Law Library Collection Periodicals contains digital access to over 100 ABA-related periodicals including 44 periodicals previously only … Hospitality & Tourism Index™ (HTI) Hospitality & Tourism Index™ (HTI) is a bibliographic database covering scholarly research and industry news relating to all areas of hospitality and tourism. Publications include Hotel & Motel Management, Journal of Leisure Research, and … Internet Archive Internet Archive is a non-profit digital library offering free universal access to books, movies & music, as well as 150 billion archived web pages. The Cornell University Library has contributed many volumes to this collection. JSTOR for Alumni JSTOR is a resource for research, teaching and learning that includes full-text content of more than 1,300 academic journals, and thousands of primary sources. JSTOR includes the highest-quality academic journals across the humanities, social … MedlinePlus Available from the U.S. Government Printing Office. Presents up-to-date health care information, selected by the U.S. National Library of Medicine, for use by health care consumers and health professionals. Hundreds of health topics are listed … Mergent Archives Mergent Archives is an online database that allows you to access a vast archive of corporate and industry related documents. Mergent Archives contains more than 180,000 documents covering over 100 countries and industries. Morgan & Claypool Colloquium of Life Sciences Contains over 400 lectures on artificial intelligence, communication networks, electrical engineering, human-centered informatics, synthetic biology, and life sciences. Books are 50- to 200 pages in length, each of which synthesizes an important … Morgan & Claypool Digital Library of Engineering and Computer Science Contains over 400 lectures on artificial intelligence, communication networks, electrical engineering, human-centered informatics, synthetic biology, and life sciences. Books are 50- to 200 pages in length, each of which synthesizes an important … Project Muse Project Muse provides access to the full text of journals published by Johns Hopkins University Press and other university presses in the humanities, social sciences, and mathematics. Covers such fields as literature and criticism, history, the … PubMed Available from the U.S. Government Printing Office. Provides access to over 16 million citations from MEDLINE and other life science journals for biomedical articles back to the 1950s. Includes links to many sites providing full text articles and … PubMed Central The U.S. National Library of Medicine’s digital archive of life sciences journal literature. Access to the full text of articles in PMC is free, except where a journal requires a subscription for access to recent articles. Sage Journals Full text access to Sage journals licensed by Cornell University Library. Also provides a searchable database for abstracts and table of contents of all Sage published journals. Sage Knowledge (ebooks and reference) A database of reference books published by SAGE covering the social sciences and education, including such areas as African American studies, aging & gerontology, anthropology, business and management, communication and media studies, counseling … Sports Market Analytics Sports Market Analytics provides searchable news and market research from the National Sporting Goods Association and other industry sources on all aspects of sporting goods, sports equipment, participation, demographics, fan profiles, sports … Visual History Archive (VHA) Created by USC Shoah Foundation Institute for Visual History and Education. Contains some 53,000 audiovisual testimonies of survivors and witnesses of the Holocaust and other acts of genocide recorded in 58 countries and in 34 languages since 1994. … WorldCat.org WorldCat is a worldwide union catalog created and maintained collectively by more than 9,000 member institutions. With millions of online records built from the bibliographic and ownership information of contributing libraries, it is the largest and … Other resources Contracts we sign with vendors prohibit us from providing alumni access to other licensed library resources. Visit your local public library to speak to a reference librarian who can explain access options in your region/state. Zotero and Mendeley for citation management Zotero and Mendeley are two free, web-based tools for managing citations, organizing pdfs, and creating bibliographies. Self-guided instruction in the form of tutorials, FAQs, and help are available through Zotero and Mendeley. Need help transitioning from RefWorks to Zotero or Mendeley? Contact us. News and events Grounded: Life is Soil, Soil is Life Beneath our feet is one of Earth's most important resources. Crops grow in it, an astonishing diversity of life can be found in it, the health of our … Congratulations to our 2022 Elevator Art Contest Winners! Our annual Elevator Art Contest gives Cornell undergraduate, graduate, or professional school students the chance to showcase their creative talents, … Library deal to stimulate open access Research published on an open access basis helps to knock down steep paywalls and reach more readers in need—but, often, authors are expected to cover …More news and events » ©2022 Cornell University Library, Ithaca, NY 14853 | 607-255-4144 | Privacy | Web Accessibility Assistance