Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Alumni Association Toggle navigation Site Menu Membership Join Today Renew Your Membership Membership Overview Why Become a Member? Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks Alumni Directory My oneFSU Dashboard Students Student Alumni Association Join SAA SAA Membership Perks My oneFSU Dashboard Honors Alumni Ambassadors Award Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Legacy Scholarship Grads Made Good The Inspire Award Community Alumni Networks Alumni Career Services Events Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Alumni Travel Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Webinar Resources Virtual Alumni Resources Support Join, Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Give to the Legacy Scholarship Give to the FSU Alumni Association Give to the FSU Alumni Association Endowment Give to FSU Academic Programs Purchase a Westcott Plaza Brick Support the Alumni Ambassadors Fund About About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Annual Highlights Alumni Center & Events Employment Frequently Asked Questions Financial Information Map and Directions Sponsorship Opportunities FSU Alumni Center Toggle navigation SECTION MENU Membership Why Become a Member? Join, Renew or Upgrade Make a Payment on a Life Membership Pledge Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone Give the Gift of Membership Why Become a Member? src="https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https-3A__www.facebook.com_tr-3Fid-3D1401480206566122-26ev-3DPageView-26noscript-3D1&d=DwIGAg&c=HPMtquzZjKY31rtkyGRFnQ&r=piehF1egpJ_0992pz3OLgg&m=oZB7Xz7crgv9v4Ucx0Cb2Vt1i543g7wulFzyXB362S8&s=0iuinavNq47KtrgjDE-5ozkahH5Wg3sfvhQcRZxG6u4&e=" /> FSU Alumni Association Membership Benefits Membership in the FSU Alumni Association strengthens our university, increases the value of your FSU degree and provides programs and services for fellow alumni and students nationwide, including: A national network of 67 Seminole Clubs and Chapters Recognition of exceptional alumni, including the Notable Noles and Circle of Gold programs Legacy Scholarships for family members of fellow alumni And much more throughout the year Learn more about the impact of membership. All alumni, friends and fans are encouraged to join the FSU Alumni Association as a way to stay connected to Florida State. Additional perks of membership include: Access to the FSU Alumni Reward Zone, where new members receive an exclusive FSU Alumni Association gift and all members have the opportunity to purchase exclusive alumni items including the exclusive FSU Alumni Association spirit flag featuring our Osceola and Renegade graphic VIRES magazine Five priority points toward FSU athletics season tickets Discount on the purchase of a commemorative brick at Westcott Plaza Discounts for many major entertainment attractions, rental cars and hotels across the United States Eligibility to serve on the Florida State University Alumni Association National Board of Directors For more information, contact the FSU Alumni Association at alumni@fsu.edu or 850.644.2761. Lifetime members also receive an autographed replica of the FSU Fight Song and a Life Member vehicle license plate frame. Which membership is right for you? FSU Alumni Association Annual $50 Annual - Recent Grad (within three years of graduation) $40 Annual - Military * (active service or veteran) $40 Annual - Senior (65 years of age and above) $40 5-Year (includes $150 credit towards Life membership) $200 Life (pay in full or 10 monthly payments) $1,200 Join now! * Active service members and veterans are eligible to receive a discount membership rate; a civilian may be added as the second member (optional). Please login to your oneFSU profile and verify your military service is accurately identified. FSU Student Alumni Association 1-year ^ $25 4-year ^ $75 Join SAA now! ^ Must be a current or incoming FSU student to purchase an FSU SAA membership. FSU SAA member benefits differ from those for FSU Alumni Association members. Add a Second Member to your Membership Every Annual, 5-year and Life membership purchased after July 1, 2013, includes the option to add a second member within the same household at no additional cost. Both members should be living at the same address (not required for active military members); all membership information, including membership cards, will be sent to the single address associated with the membership. If you purchased a 5-year or Lifetime membership prior to July 1, 2013, you may add a second member at a greatly reduced price from joint membership. Contact the FSU Alumni Association at 850.644.2761 or FSUalum@alumni.fsu.edu for more information. Graduation from Florida State University is not a prerequisite to become a member of the FSU Alumni Association. Many members are parents and spouses of alumni, and fans of FSU. OFFICIAL PARTNERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Their generous support allows the FSU Alumni Association to provide programs, services and events to you. MEMBERS Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Member Perks Reward Zone Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks STUDENTS Student Alumni Association Join SAA Benefits of SAA Membership Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks HONORS Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award COMMUNITY Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Events Football HQ Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Travel Programs ABOUT US About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Sponsorship Opportunities ALUMNI CENTER Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions FSU Alumni Association 1030 W. Tennessee St. Tallahassee, FL 32304 Email Us (850) 644-2761 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright Close