Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. BEARCATS/health BEARCATS/health right arrow down arrow You asked for it, and we listened. Introducing the UC Alumni Association’s new health series for Bearcats to learn from our experts on various health topics, such as previous discussions on the COVID-19 pandemic, racial inequities in healthcare, and resilience during times of stress. Optimize Your Well-Being A community symposium focused on non-pharmacological approaches to pain management REGISTER Saturday, May 14 9 a.m. - 3 p.m. The Graduate Hotel 151 Goodman Street Cincinnati, OH 45219 The UC Center for Integrative Health and Wellness and the UC Brain Tumor Center have come together to bring the benefits of non-pharmaceutical methods of pain management to our community. A robust agenda of expert presenters will enlighten and enliven guests with evidence-based strategies to reduce, eliminate and prevent chronic and acute pain through lifestyle management and integrative therapies, focusing especially on relieving pain associated with disease, chronic illness and related treatments. Dr. Robert Bonakdar, Director of Pain Management at the Scripps Center for Integrative Medicine in San Diego is our event keynote speaker, and UC faculty and special guests will lead 15+ interactive presentations and integrative health sessions and experientials. Past Events If you haven't been able to join us for a BEARCATS/health program yet, you still can! Check out our YouTube playlist of BEARCATS/health virtual event recordings. 'Pain and Prejudice Inequity in the Opioid Epidemic' Webinar 'Mindfulness for Building Resilience' with Dr Cotton Webinar BEARCATS/health COVID-19 Vaccine Event Exploring our Patients’ Contexts: A History of Anti Black Racism in Cincinnati Hope! Fight! Breathe! Lung Cancer Educational Conference for Patients, Families and Caregivers Breast Cancer 360° in the Midst of COVID-19 Understanding Health Inequities in Greater Cincinnati & America - Webinar UC Health COVID 19 Discussion with CEO of UC Health Social Work Hot Topic: Grief 'Behind the Scenes' with UC Health Celebrating Diverse Women in Pharmacy Addressing Inequity as Allied Health Professionals Examining Ramifications in Mass Incarceration Beyond the Bench: How UC Health Physicians Keep Our Bearcats Game-Ready The University of Cincinnati Alumni Association's Academic Health Center alumni engagement team has presented webinars that explored public health crises with an attempt to understand the causes and consequences of health inequities. To learn more, click here. Giving Back UC clinicians and researchers have been on the front lines of the region's response to COVID-19, truly making our community proud. The Crisis Response Fund supports the immediate and ongoing needs of UC Health clinicians and staff as they continue to understand, treat and prevent the spread of COVID-19. Please consider making a gift to support UC and UC Health to address areas of emerging and critical need in real-time. GIVE NOW Health News from UC Connecting through music May 24, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's College of Medicine and College-Conservatory of Music collaborate on the innovative Dementia and the Arts course and intervention for community members with cognitive disorders and their family members. O’Toole co-edits book on women in pediatrics May 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Dr. Jennifer O’Toole is co-editor of the book “Women in Pediatrics: The Past, Present and Future.” 55KRC: Naomi Judd suicide brings awareness to mental health... May 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Caleb Adler discussed the recent death by suicide of singer Naomi Judd, risk factors for suicide and resources available for those struggling with mental health issues. CPS grad finds ‘UC makes dreams come true’ May 19, 2022 Benya Colleman is one of 10 students who has been awarded the University of Cincinnati’s Marian Spencer Scholarship created to recognize high-achieving students in Cincinnati Public Schools (CPS). Local media highlight Stroke Awareness Month May 18, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Eva Mistry and Pooja Khatri were recent guests on local news programs to discuss National Stroke Awareness Month. Parade: Fidget toys can be coping tools for depression and... May 11, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Shana Feibel was featured in a Parade article about the benefits of fidget toys to cope with anxiety and depression. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan St. Cincinnati, OH 45219-0024 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan St. Cincinnati, OH 45219-0024 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) alumni@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top