Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Cornell Forbes 30 Under 30 Cornell clubs Class connections Young Alumni Programs Diversity Alumni Programs and Cornell Mosaic Alumni career support Networking Connect with students Downloads Networking On this page Connect with your alumni network Connect with interest groups What makes Cornell different? Our network of alumni! When you graduated, you got access to this network forever. Cornellians advise, help, and care for each other. Connect with your alumni network CUeLINKS Give advice, get advice. Connect 1:1 on this university-wide knowledge sharing platform. Alumni LinkedIn group Connect with more than 57,000 Cornellians and escape the pesky referral process. Plus, the Cornell logo will be added to your profile! Connect with interest groups Cornell Entrepreneur Network (CEN) Cornell Entrepreneur Network (CEN) gives you stories to refer to in uncertain moments, the inside scoop on extraordinary successes, and real examples of how it's done. Soak up our presentations and make priceless connections in dozens of cities around the country and the globe, as well as online. Cornell Military Network The Cornell Military Network (CMN) organizes military-affiliated Cornell alumni across generations in support of the educational, professional, and social advancement of service-minded Cornellians. CMN’s constituency includes anyone who has served in uniform, performed civilian national defense work, or is interested in military affairs. Cornell Silicon Valley (CSV) Cornell Silicon Valley (CSV) provides educational and networking opportunities throughout the Bay Area, with programs based in Silicon Valley, downtown San Francisco, the peninsula, and South Bay. Cornell startups See Cornell University startups all in one place. Find your future collaborators and mentors, and join top startups. Plan your Reunion Reunion has something for everyone. Browse events and create a custom itinerary to make the most of your weekend on the Hill! Can't make it in person? Choose the Virtual Reunion package during registration and get access to featured livestream events. Make your schedule Ho Plaza looking south from atop McGraw Tower. Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022