Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Harvard College Fund The Harvard College Fund fosters a philanthropic community in support of the vital and enduring teaching, learning, and research mission of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Give Now Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers More than 30,000 donors and volunteers contribute to the Harvard College Fund each year—from College alumni, parents, and students to GSAS alumni and friends. Thank you for being a part of the Harvard community and for your dedication to its success. Contact Us To learn more about how you can get involved with the Harvard College Fund, please contact us at hcf_inquiry@harvard.edu or call 1-800-VERITAS. Alumni Profiles June 1, 2022 Alumni Profiles Campus & Community Community by Design The incoming president of the Harvard Alumni Association, Allyson Mendenhall AB '90, MLA '99 is committed to creating inclusive alumni experiences. February 10, 2022 Alumni Profiles Transforming Opportunities Deacon Turner ’91 shares how his journey out of poverty to the Yard inspires him to do what he can for students like him to thrive November 29, 2021 Alumni Profiles Winning from the bench Following a childhood of frequenting Camden Yards, gymnasiums, and athletic fields, Eve Rosenbaum ’12 found herself on the bench at Harvard. And it made all the difference. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College