Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu How to Give You can support Brown in a variety of ways—from annual gifts that fund scholarships and help the University meet immediate needs, to planned gifts that establish a legacy and give you significant tax benefits. Breadcrumb Home Giving How to Give You can support Brown in a variety of ways—from annual gifts that fund scholarships and help the University meet immediate needs, to planned gifts that establish a legacy and give you significant tax benefits. Brunonians understand the power of giving back. That's why so many alumni, parents, friends, and even students choose to give back to Brown. No matter the size, every gift to Brown has the potential to make a lasting impact. From making an online gift to setting up a bequest, there are a variety of ways you can give back to Brown. Find the giving method that best suits you. Give Online To make a gift online, please use our secure online giving form. You can make a one-time gift or set up a recurring gift on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis. Check or Money Order Send a check or money order made payable to Brown University to: Brown University Gift Cashier Box 1877 Providence, RI 02912 USA For deliveries other than regular USPS mail, use the following address: Brown University Office of Gift Accounting 350 Eddy Street, Sixth Floor Providence, RI 02903 USA +1 (401) 863-3633 Wire Transfers To wire transfer funds to Brown, it is recommended that these instructions be provided to your bank to ensure proper transfer of funds. Bank Name and Address: Bank of America, 185 Asylum Street, Hartford, CT 06103 ABA Routing #: 026009593 Account #: 394005745212 Swift Code: BOFAUS3N Account Name: Brown University Please include donor name, donor mailing address and gift designation to ensure proper crediting of funds. Appreciated Securities/Stock Gifts of securities such as stocks or other appreciated assets can be a great, tax-efficient method for making a gift to Brown. In most instances, you can take a tax deduction for the full market value of the gift and avoid any capital gains tax.* Please direct all questions regarding making gifts of stock, bonds, and mutual funds to the Treasury Department at stockgifts@brown.edu, by phone at +1 (401) 863-9297, or by fax at +1 (401) 867-3996. FOR U.S. COMMON STOCK: 1. Common stock traded on U.S. Exchanges may be transferred electronically from your brokerage account to: Merrill Lynch DTC #8862 Account #28Z-43M22 for the benefit of Brown University 2. To avoid delays in processing and crediting your gift, please provide the following information to the Treasury Department as soon as possible at stockgifts@brown.edu A copy of the transfer instructions Name and address of the donor Name of the security Number of shares Designation of the gift FOR FOREIGN STOCK OR MUTUAL FUND SHARES: To ensure that foreign stock or mutual fund shares will be accepted, please contact the Treasury Department for confirmation or instructions for an alternate brokerage account to use. FOR PHYSICALLY HELD SHARES: For shares that are held by you in certificate form, the stock certificate and a stock power must be sent to the Brown University Treasury Department. Your stock power must include a Medallion Signature Guarantee and should, for security reasons, be sent in a separate envelope from the actual certificate. Please contact the Treasury Department for the appropriate mailing address or other questions. If you have any further questions about securities, please contact the Treasury Department at stockgifts@brown.edu or +1 (401) 863-9297. *The material presented on this website is not offered as legal or tax advice. Please consult your tax advisor, financial planner, or attorney about the legal and tax benefits of any gift to Brown University. Donor Advised Funds Donor advised funds are one of the fastest-growing forms of philanthropy. They are simple, flexible, and cost-effective, allowing you to easily support your favorite charities and organizations—including Brown—and help you realize your long-term philanthropic goals. With a donor advised fund, you can diversify your charitable giving and potentially benefit from certain tax benefits. Your Donor Advised Fund If you would like to support Brown and have already benefited from the immediate tax deductions offered by donor advised funds, please follow the instructions provided by your fund for making a grant recommendation. Be sure to provide gift designation instructions and use the following contact information when making your recommendation. Brown University - Gift Cashier Box 1877 Providence, RI 02912 +1 (401) 863-3633 gift_accounting@brown.edu Brown’s Federal Tax Identification Number: 05-0258809 Brown’s Donor Advised Fund Brown’s donor advised fund allows you to establish a charitable account maintained and managed by Brown’s world-class investment team while you consider what purposes and organizations you want your fund to support. How It Works Make an initial, tax-deductible gift of $100,000 or more to open a donor advised fund. Brown accepts gifts of cash and marketable securities and may accept other types of assets. While you decide where to allocate your fund’s distributions, your gift will be managed by Brown’s investment team with no administrative fees. You can provide recommendations for the distribution of both the original gift and any growth in the principal to Brown and other qualified charities. At least 25% of the fund must be allocated for Brown. You can benefit from investing your gift in Brown’s endowment while maintaining anonymity and privacy in your philanthropic pursuits. For a confidential discussion about a Brown donor advised fund, contact the Office of Planned Giving at +1 (401) 863-9119 or Planned_Giving@brown.edu. IRA “Rollovers” (Qualified Charitable Distributions) If you are 70½ years or older, you can make a tax-free distribution from your individual retirement account (IRA) to Brown. Any qualified contribution up to $100,000 counts toward your required minimum distribution (RMD). (Your spouse may also make a qualified charitable distribution up to $100,000.) How It Works To make a gift from your IRA, contact your IRA administrator (for example Fidelity, Merrill Lynch, Schwab, Vanguard, etc.) and ask the representative to send a check in the amount you desire (up to $100,000) payable to Brown University. You can download a sample letter and instructions (PDF) for requesting a charitable distribution from your IRA administrator. Checks should be mailed to: Brown University Gift Cashier Box 1877 Providence, RI 02912 Contact the Office of Planned Giving at +1 (401) 863-9119 or Planned_Giving@brown.edu with any questions. It is helpful if you can provide the following: your name and Brown class year (if applicable) the amount of your check the name of the IRA administrator (Fidelity, Merrill Lynch, Schwab, Vanguard, etc.) if the gift is unrestricted (to The Brown Fund), restricted (if so, please describe the details), or a combination Planned Giving By making a planned gift to Brown, you can make a lasting and transformative difference on the University. From bequests to living trusts to retirement assets, planned giving is an effective way to give back to Brown in a meaningful way while also helping you achieve your own charitable and financial goals. The Brown planned giving team can help craft a personalized strategy that achieves your philanthropic and financial goals. By making a planned gift of any size, you will qualify for membership in the College Hill Society, which recognizes alumni and friends who provide for the University through a planned gift. Learn more about planned giving to Brown, visit Brown's planned giving website or contact us: Tel: +1 (401) 863-9119 Fax: +1 (401) 863-3301 Email: planned_giving@brown.edu If you include Brown in your plans, please use our legal name and Federal Tax ID. Legal Name: Brown University Address: Office of Planned Giving, Box 1893, Providence, RI, 02912 Federal Tax Identification Number: 05-0258809 Giving from Outside the U.S. If you are a Canadian, Hong Kong, United Kingdom, or European taxpayer, we encourage you to explore the following links to learn more about country-specific tax benefits of making a gift to Brown University. Canada Europe Hong Kong United Kingdom If you have any questions regarding giving to Brown University from outside the U.S., please contact Connie DiPanfilo in the Office of International Advancement at constance_dipanfilo@brown.edu. Questions regarding your specific tax situation should be directed to your tax advisor. If you are a U.S. taxpayer and prefer to receive a U.S. tax receipt, please use our secure online gift form. Credit Card Gifts If you wish to make a credit card gift to Brown, please use our secure online gift form or contact Gift Accounting at +1 (401) 863-3633 Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m to 5:00 p.m. ET. For your security, please do not send your credit card information over email or voicemail. Automated Money Transfers (ACH) Electronic payments and automated money transfers (ACH) should be used for corporate payments to Brown only, not individual gift payments. For ACH instructions, please contact the University Cashier Office at cashier@brown.edu. Matching Gifts Double or even triple your gift's impact on the University! More than one thousand companies offer some level of corporate match for their employees' philanthropic interests. Best of all, you are recognized for the full amount of your own gift plus any resulting corporate match. Contact your company’s personnel or human resources office to find out if your employer, or your spouse’s employer, has a matching gift program. You can also use our matching gifts search form. If you have questions or need further information, contact Brown's Matching Gift Coordinator at (800) 662-2266. Cryptocurrency Brown currently accepts many forms of cryptocurrency. Please contact the Office of Planned Giving at +1 (401) 863-9119 or Planned_Giving@brown.edu to learn more about how you can support the University through this asset. For general questions about giving to Brown, contact us at: ✉ gift_accounting@brown.edu ☏ +1 (401) 863-3300 or +1 (800) 662-2266 The material presented on this website is not offered as legal or tax advice. Please consult your tax advisor, financial planner, or attorney about the legal and tax benefits of any gift to Brown University. Donor Bill of Rights Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search How to Give Open details for How to Give Bookmark this Page