Skip to main content archives Winter 2021 search register / sign in The Next Play Over 42 years, Mike Krzyzewski sustained excellence by looking ahead. How a love of endangered leatherback turtles brought two alumni together Duke researchers make an impact in the jungles of Peru They are helping communities resolve complex health issues spurred by unregulated gold mining Sending the lemurs two by two to multiply With three carefully orchestrated air shipments, four pairs of Coquerel's sifakas from the Lemur Center were moved to start a breeding colony in Europe Reckoning with America's longest war A really good listen With 12 million downloads, "Scene on Radio," a podcast produced by Center for Documentary Studies audio director John Biewen, has found success with a democratic approach ALSO IN THE Winter 2021 ISSUE See the full issue A really good listen by Scott Huler You know about John Biewen’s bicycle if you have listened to episode eleven of season two of “Scene on Radio,” the podcast he created as part of his work as audio director at Duke’s Center for Documen The Centennials Year Two: Bentley Choi by Corbie Hill Bentley Choi is gearing up for a busy semester. Raise a glass of sweet tea: The founding editor of Duke Magazine says farewell by Robert J. Bliwise Back in a distant era, the fall of 1983, I learned that Duke would be launching a new alumni magazine and hiring a founding editor. Quite an attractive opportunity: A startup magazine. A research university. Duke professor's research examines the racial wealth gap by Scott Huler It’s been a while since the Great Recession, when millions of people lost jobs, homes, their savings, between late 2007 and mid 2009. Duke marine-mammal biologists use dolphins to explain stubborn blubber by Corbie Hill How much energy does a dolphin burn in a day? Students study political theater, then tell their own stories by Corbie Hill When Faulkner Fox planned her inaugural political-theater workshop for fall 2020, she didn’t predict an imminent summer of activism. Mathematicians come together to create a mixed-media sculpture by Scott Huler As the summer of 2021 lengthened and autumn began to approach, the website for “Mathemalchemy”—the unique, hallucinatory, room-sized mathematical mixed-media sculpture under construction by mathematicians f Recently published books by alumni by Adrienne Johnson Martin We asked Maureen Farrell ’01 about The Cult of We: WeWork, Adam Neumann, and the Great Startup Delusion (Crown), which she cowrote with Eliot Brown—the saga of the rise and fall of one of the most-va Inspired by a bad break, former Duke football players create a company by Christina Holder People often warn, “Don’t start a company with your friends.” But Kevin Gehsmann B.S.E. ’19, Clark Bulleit B.S.E. ’19, now a first-year medical student at Duke, and Tim Skapek B.S.E. From the desk of Sterly Wilder: Celebrating our founders by Sterly Wilder Each fall, the university community gathers to celebrate the founding of Duke—members of the Duke family and the giants on whose shoulders we have stood, those men and women who helped make our university the extraordinary place it is today. Alumna takes on perpetrators of violence against Asian Americans by Christina Holder Manjusha Kulkarni ’91, a Los Angeles community activist and attorney, knew she had to act. When Duke underwent a dramatic change in its residential experience by Valerie Gillispie Duke recently announced a new residential plan, QuadEx, which will connect the East Campus freshman dormitories to one of seven quads on West Campus. Work in progress: Think of it as a kind of fitbit for whales by Dave Haas Before becoming a student again in 2011, I worked for PopCap Games. We made Bejeweled and Plants vs. Zombies, and I was COO for a while and ran worldwide game studios. The 2020 Forever Duke award winners by DAED staff The year 2020 changed the world as we know it. These Duke alumni showed us that in the midst of unspeakable difficulty, we can lift up each other, come together, make change that has the power to change us all. DR/TL (Didn't Read/Too Long?) by Scott Huler ANIMALS AND MICROBES The Next Play by Michael Kruse Mike Krzyzewski called Shane Battier. This was in the summer of 1999. Krzyzewski was approaching the midpoint of his peerless career at Duke, and Battier, too, was halfway through his own stellar tenure at the school. Updates & Multimedia See all content Class Notes and Obits Find out what your classmates have been up to. Meet 3 alumnae who helped put men on the moon Working to keep the beat: Arun Sharma '12 on heart health. Pivot Point: The Allen Building Takeover at Duke, Fifty Years Later The original protesters return to campus and share their experiences. CAMPUS NEWS Duke Today Duke Law News DUKEENVIRONMENT Magazine Divinity Magazine DukeMed Alumni News Duke Nursing Magazine About Us About Us History and Mission Meet the Magazine Staff Advertise Subscriptions and Mailing Support the Magazine Duke Alumni Duke University Duke Today Devils' Share Podcast About Us Contact Us Box 90572 Durham, NC 27708-0572 Phone: 919-684-5114 Fax: 919-681-1659 Email: dukemag@duke.edu About Us Follow Us Facebook Twitter Privacy Policy | ©2021 Duke Magazine