Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Learn on Campus You may no longer be a Yale student, but you can still study like one. By taking classes with fellow alumni, friends, and family through Yale Alumni College or by auditing Yale courses, you can pursue your passion for learning back on campus. Information Links Learn With Us Yale Alumni College Yale Alumni College offers courses in a variety of locations throughout the U.S. in the fall and spring semesters, with a few each semester on Yale's campus. Yale Alumni College is an educational program, open to all Yale alumni, that provides a way for you to reconnect with the university in a far deeper and more meaningful way – through a seminar setting with the vigor of a Yale classroom and the experience and wisdom of 20 or so fellow scholars. Learn More about Yale Alumni College Information Links Be a Student Again Audit Yale Classes Through Yale, you can audit courses, reconnecting with the university and its students, and continuing your learning for a lifetime. Note: Due to public health concerns, auditors will not be permitted on campus during the Fall 2021 term and so cannot attend classes in Yale College. Fall 2021 undergraduate courses will not be offered remotely. Please check back in January 2022, as we hope to again offer auditing in Spring 2022. If you have any questions about the auditing program, please contact academic.affairs@yale.edu. Learn More about Audit Yale Classes Additional Links Get to Know the YAA Our mission is to enhance and renew the lifelong Yale experience for all alumni, whoever they are and wherever they may be. We strive to inspire new ideas, affiliations, friendships, professional fulfillment, and acts of service, around the world. Learn More about Get to Know the YAA Update Your Information Keep your contact information up to date so you don't miss out on events in your area or campus news of interest. You can update your contact information through the Online Alumni Community and manage your email preferences there as well. Log In Now You May Also Be Interested In News COVID-19 and 2022 Yale College Reunions: May Update Features Friendship and gratitude mark the 321st Commencement News An alumni ceremony for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Features Your Top 10 to-do list for 2022 Yale College Reunions Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page