Skip to main content Alumni Directory (external link) Check Email (external link) My Account (external link) Travel/StudySearch Home Destinations Collections Custom Journeys About Who We Are Traveling with Us Eligibility Covid and Travel Contact Us Menu Home Destinations Collections Custom Journeys About Who We Are Traveling with Us Eligibility Covid and Travel Contact Us Alumni Directory (external link) Check Email (external link) My Account (external link) Search Travel/Study Home Destinations Collections Custom Journeys About Who We Are Traveling with Us Eligibility Covid and Travel Contact Us Menu Home Destinations Collections Custom Journeys About Who We Are Traveling with Us Eligibility Covid and Travel Contact Us Close Hello, what can we help you find today? SearchClear Search Consider browsing by category: Popular Topics Programs & Resources for Students (external link) Request your official Stanford transcript (external link) Potential COVID Exposures on Campus (external link) Alumni Membership Card (external link) Stanford Alumni Email Contact Information SAA Customer Service (external link) Stanford University Contact Information (external link) SAA Departments Experience the Extraordinary With Stanford Travel/Study, every trip is the trip of a lifetime. It's easy to see why our travelers keep coming back, year after year. Homepage Find a destination Explore our collections Learn the Stanford advantage Our Destinations Embark on a Trip Unlike Any Other Our diverse lineup of educational adventures lets you learn and explore endlessly—whether you are venturing somewhere new or looking to gain a deeper appreciation of a familiar destination. Sep17–toSep26 Aegean Sea A classic voyage to the Greek Isles and Turkey Explore millennia of human history and mythology on a cruise from Athens through the islands of the Aegean Sea to the ancient city of Ephesus. Sep28–toOct07 Italy Savor Southern Italy from Puglia to Naples Enjoy the superb cuisine, rugged landscapes and ancient villages of Puglia, then venture to the sun-splashed Amalfi Coast with its cliffside towns and haunting ruins. Oct12–toOct26 Iran Explore one of the world's oldest civilizations Immerse yourself in the deep cultural history of Iran, taking in millennia of art, ornate mosques and archaeological treasures. Oct19–toNov01 Oman, Qatar and the UAE An exploration of life and culture in the Middle East Explore the striking mosaic of contrasts with ultra modern cities and ancient villages, sand dunes and soaring mountains, all bordered by blue skies and shimmering water. Oct24–toNov07 Mount Everest An ultimate adventure trek to Everest Base Camp Trek the snow-capped Himalayas, taking in panoramic views while relaxing in mountainside villages and learning about local Sherpa traditions. Dec21–toDec30 Egypt For young adults (ages 18+) traveling with their families On this program designed for families traveling with adult children, discover the grandeur of Egypt, cruise the Nile River and engage with local residents. Explore all destinations Why Stanford Discover the Stanford Advantage When you're looking to add top-notch educational opportunities, exclusive access to unique locales and the opportunity to connect with your fellow alums to your journey, look no further than Travel/Study. Our Faculty Leaders With Stanford scholars leading the way through every step of your journey, you're guaranteed an educational experience like no other. In addition to hearing their thought-provoking lectures, you'll have the opportunity to interact with these teachers who are masters at bringing our destinations to life. Our Experience In our nearly 50 years of creating educational journeys, we have covered nearly every corner of the globe—from the North Pole to Antarctica and from the mountains of Nepal to the Sahara. Our travelers have experienced it all: epic rail journeys, in-depth city sojourns, private air expeditions, mountain treks and so much more. Our Connections From people to places, Stanford knows (and has access to) them all. Stanford connections afford you the opportunity to enjoy rare behind-the-scenes visits to special sites, discussions with knowledgeable insiders and once-in-a-lifetime events all over the world. Learn more about Travel/Study advantages About Our Faculty Leaders Meet Some of Our Exceptional Faculty Leaders Here's a unique perk you simply won't find anywhere else: a Stanford education to go. With renowned Stanford faculty and scholars leading the way, every Travel/Study trip is an intellectual adventure. Michael McWilliams Geological Sciences Professor McWilliams studies the history of important earth events such as volcanism, earthquakes, mass extinctions and global climate change. Join Michael in Australia Elaine Treharne English Professor Treharne researches medieval British literature, manuscript studies, and the history of text to recover the stories and literary traces of those who have gone before us. Join Elaine in the United Kingdom Rob Dunbar Earth Systems Science Rob is interested in global climate change and how we translate scientific knowledge into better policies and practices to promote the sustainable use of the Earth. Join Rob in Micronesia Ayla Pamukçu Geological Sciences Professor Pamukçu studies the interactions and relationships between humans and their geologic surroundings, particularly volcanoes. Join Ayla in Iceland Buzz Thompson Stanford Law School The Robert E. Paradise Professor of Natural Resources Law and a senior fellow at the Woods Institute for the Environment, Buzz is a scholar of rivers, their histories and the critical role they play in shaping the countries through which they flow. Join Buzz in Southeast Asia Margot Gerritsen Energy Resources Engineering In addition to her work in renewable and fossil energy production, Margot Gerritsen, PhD '97, is an outdoor sportsperson, ready to share with our travelers her love of hiking, biking and kayaking. Join Margot in Alaska Curated Collections Collections Designed With You in Mind Whatever your travel style, we have a trip that will meet your needs—and give you an unforgettable, enriching experience. Explore our curated collections to find your next big adventure. Active Adventures Get up close and personal with wildlife or just get moving. From walking and hiking to kayaking, snorkeling, diving and rafting, it’s easy to stay active wherever we go. Asia Learn about the geophysics of Everest, delve into the history of Southeast Asia, and explore the hidden gems of the largest and most populous continent. In-Depth Learning Want to do a deeper dive? Travel to amazing locales where you’ll enjoy lectures, seminars and in-depth talks with scholars, peers and local experts. Nature & Wildlife See stunning vistas and spectacular wildlife with experienced trip leaders, and immerse yourself in the rich biodiversity of our shared planet. North America From idyllic mountains and national parks to iconic cultural sites, discover the geographic wonders and rich history of North America. Sea & River Cruises Experience a cruise like none other and see a totally different side of the cities, towns and scenic seascapes along the way. View all collections Family-Focused On a Stanford Family Adventure, you and your loved ones will find yourselves immersed in new countries and cultures with hands-on activities, faculty lectures and unique learning opportunities for all ages. Have a Question for Us? Get in touch with someone at Travel/Study. Contact us Subscribe to Our Emails (external link) Stanford Alumni Association Frances C. Arrillaga Alumni Center 326 Galvez Street Stanford, CA 94305-6105 Map on Google (external link) Help Find an alum (external link) Check your alumni email (external link) Access SAA Member Card (external link) Give to Stanford (external link) Facebook Page LinkedIn Page Twitter Page Instagram Page Youtube Channel Event Featured Events Reunions (external link) Communities Clubs & Groups Young Alumni (external link) Students (external link) Reading & Resources News & Stories Learn STANFORD Magazine (external link) Career Connections (external link) Newsletters Racial Justice (external link) Programs & Perks Alumni Perks Alumni Membership Sierra Programs (external link) Travel/Study Wine Collection (external link) Alumni Store (external link) Volunteer Volunteer Opportunities Stanford Associates (external link) Beyond the Farm Trustee Nominations About About SAA Alumni Center (external link) Event Space (external link) Contact Us Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use Code of Conduct Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.