Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Menu Main menu Giving Overview Give Online Planned Giving Gifts That Pay You Income Lead Trusts Assets You Can Give Events Harvard Planned Gift Administration Resources Meet the Staff Contact Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Types of Bequests How to Make a Bequest Benefits of a Bequest Future Use Attorney & Advisor Info Gift Policy Guide Tax Information FAQ Giving Contacts Instructions for Stock and Bond Gifts To transfer stocks, bonds, mutual funds, foreign stocks, physical certificates, or any other gifts that may require special instructions, please contact the security gifts team in Alumni & Development Services (ADS) at (866) 845-6596. Provide the following information to the security gifts team in Alumni & Development Services (ADS): Name of the security Number of shares Name of the donor with class year, if applicable Designation of the gift Brokerage or bank where the shares are held Cost basis and acquisition date* *This information is being collected in relation to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. You may provide this information by one of the following methods*: Online Gift Form: Notify the security gifts team of an Expected Gift of US Securities Email: donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu Phone: (866) 845-6596 Fax: (617) 878-6598 Mail: President & Fellows of Harvard College, c/o Alumni & Development Services, 124 Mount Auburn Street, Cambridge, MA 02138, Attn: Trust Administration *Information attached to a transfer as "Comments" does not reliably arrive in its entirety. Important: These instructions do not constitute authority to open an account in Harvard's name. Matching Gift Program Search Many employers sponsor matching gift programs and will match contributions made to Harvard by their employees. To find out if your or your spouse’s company has a matching gift program, please enter the employer's name below. If your or your spouse’s company has a matching gift program, please request a matching gift form from the company and send us the completed form with or following your gift. If the employer uses an online matching gift site, please send your gift to us and visit the company’s website to request that a matching gift be made. Please direct completed forms and/or questions to: Harvard University Alumni & Development Services 124 Mount Auburn Street Cambridge, MA 02138 ads@harvard.edu (617) 495-1750 We're sorry, the planned giving gift calculator requires the use of an iframe Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College