Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Ways to Volunteer Volunteer Leadership Awards and Recognition Volunteer Resources Ways to Volunteer On this page CUVolunteer CUeLINKS Cornell Alumni Admissions Ambassador Network (CAAAN) Cornell Social Explore opportunities through Cornell volunteer platforms. These online tools can help you find ways to be a Cornell volunteer, mentor, or social media ambassador. Opportunities are tailored to your location, interests, skills, and available time. CUVolunteer Do something for Cornell. Do you care about keeping the Cornell community strong and vibrant all over the world? This online portal helps you find ways to volunteer that fit your life, interests, and connections to Cornell. Create your unique profile and be a part of the active community of Cornellians near you! CUeLINKS Share knowledge with Cornell students. Connect with Cornellians today! CUeLINKs (Cornell University: Learning, Informing, Networking=Knowledge Sharing) is Cornell’s exclusive university-wide knowledge sharing platform, connecting students and alumni & alumni to alumni to get the most out of the powerful Cornell community. Sign up now to have access to the alumni job board, post unpaid student internships, engage in career-focused discussion boards, and make valuable connections with both students and fellow alumni alike. You’ll have access to a Cornell network designed exclusively for you! Please reach out to cuelinks@cornell.edu with any questions. C U there! Cornell Alumni Admissions Ambassador Network (CAAAN) Meet with prospective students. Over 12,000 proud Cornell alumni serve as enthusiastic ambassadors to prospective students and families in all 50 states and at least 50 nations across the globe. Volunteers meet individually with freshman applicants, staff college fairs, and host local receptions. Cornell Social Join Cornell’s network of social media ambassadors. As a social media ambassador, you’ll share messages from Cornell with your networks. Social media ambassadors generate buzz about major initiatives. This volunteer role helps the university reach more alumni, parents, and friends of Cornell. Plan your Reunion Reunion has something for everyone. Browse events and create a custom itinerary to make the most of your weekend on the Hill! Can't make it in person? Choose the Virtual Reunion package during registration and get access to featured livestream events. Make your schedule Ho Plaza looking south from atop McGraw Tower. Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022