Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar BOLD | Bulldogs of the Last Decade Information Links WELCOME You Are Already Part of the Yale Community — What's Next? A Yale degree is just the beginning. BOLD, or Bulldogs of the Last Decade, is your link to curated opportunities for recent grads, including both Yale College graduates and alums from the graduate and professional schools. Start here and find ways to connect with your fellow Yalies and expand your network, both online and at events happening around the world. There are many benefits to being an alum and many ways you can stay connected and engaged with Yale and the Yale community – including online options. Get Social Instagram @YaleAlumni Facebook @YaleAlumniAssociation Facebook Group Yale Alumni Twitter @YaleAlumni YouTube Yale Alumni Association TikTok @YaleAlumni LinkedIn Yale Alumni Association Information Links Join the Yale Alumni Online Community The online community directory is your way to: Connect with fellow alumni Get your Yale-branded email address — for life Stay in touch with Yale by updating your contact info! Join Today Get Connected Find Yale in Your City With clubs all over the world, you can connect with friends, continue to learn for a lifetime, give back to your local community, and explore professional opportunities – all in your area. Yale Alumni Shared Interest Groups Interest groups are your opportunity to engage with other alumni through affiliations, identities, and professions, cutting across class years, schools, and regional clubs. Yale Alumni Identity Groups Yale alumni identity groups are your opportunity to connect with fellow alums with a shared identity. More Ways to Connect Eli Ambassadors Share your alumni experience on @YaleAlumni TikTok and Instagram! Bold Perspectives BOLD Perspectives is an opportunity for recent grads to come together to share their experiences and adventures as a Yalie. Events Check out events open to all alumni! Graduate Alumni: Connect with Your School Graduate School of Arts & Sciences School of Architecture School of Art Divinity School David Geffen School of Drama School of Engineering & Applied Science School of the Environment Law School School of Management School of Medicine School of Music School of Nursing School of Public Health Information Links Cross Campus Mentoring and Networking Cross Campus is Yale’s networking, community-building, and mentoring platform. Cross Campus features ways to engage with Yale: through mentorship, either as a mentor or a mentee; with one-time advice; via an online discussion board to ask questions of fellow Cross Campus users; and by joining groups of interest. Career Resources Careers, Life, and Yale Careers, Life, and Yale is all about connections – connecting Yale alumni to each other and with current students for networking, advice, and mentoring. Careers, Life, and Yale Webinars Whether you are launching your career, changing direction, reinventing yourself, or re-entering the workforce, you can find resources to guide you. Office of Career Strategy The Yale Office of Career Strategy offers career advising, professional school advising, employment and internship opportunities, and career development resources. Lifelong Learning The YAA believes your journey doesn’t end at graduation, and neither does your education. To that end, the YAA offers a variety of educational resources and lifelong learning opportunities both online and on campus. Of particular interest are Yale Alumni Academy, which offers a variety of educational travel trips and programs taught by Yale professors, and JSTOR, which provides access to millions of academic journals, books, and primary sources, all for free to Yale alums. For more, check out the Learn section of this website. Yale Terms Explained In an effort to demystify some of the lingo used here at Yale and the Yale Alumni Association, we created a glossary of Yale alumni terms with definitions. Never be left wondering "what does that acronym mean?" again. Get in Touch Info Accordions Yale Alumni Association Jeannie Daniel Associate Director, Recent Graduate Engagement Classes 2010-2025 5th & 10th Reunions (203) 436-8013 Yale Alumni Fund Amanda Baker Deputy Director, Young Alumni and Students (203) 436-8566 Devyn Evans Assistant Director, Young Alumni Classes of 2012-2021 (203) 432-7717 Heather O’Connell Assistant Director, Young Alumni Classes of 2006-2011 (203) 432-5891 Yale Reunion Giving Tony Dini Assistant Director, Reunion Giving 5th, 10th, & 65th Reunions (203) 432-5719 #YaleAlumni You May Also Be Interested In Alumni Voices Getting to Know You: Reunion Edition with John Yi ’12+1 Features Congratulations graduates, and welcome to the Yale alumni community! Alumni Voices Getting to Know You: Tanya Rivero Warren ’95 Alumni Voices Getting to Know You: Leo Goldsmith ’20 MEM Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page