Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Date June 16, 2021 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Football gets a modern home field advantage The Richard Gouse Field at Brown Stadium makes the jump to a new playing surface, giving football a “play fast” competitive home base. Rendering of the new turf field at Brown Stadium. When Brown’s football team returns to the field this fall, it will have a brand new playing surface to work with. Thanks to the generosity of alumnus and Brown Athletic Hall of Fame inductee Richard Gouse ’68, P’02, Brown Stadium’s field is getting an upgrade from natural grass to synthetic turf. “The new state-of-the-art turf at Brown Stadium will provide our student-athletes and coaches with a modern home field on which to win Ivy League championships,” says Vice President of Athletics and Recreation M. Grace Calhoun ’92, PhD. Site work is already underway and is on track to be completed in time for the 2021 season opener against the University of Rhode Island, which is the 105th renewal of the Governor’s Cup game. In honor of the project’s lead donor, the field will be designated as Richard Gouse Field at Brown Stadium. “With the installation of the new turf, we can provide our players with the best surface to compete for, and win, Ivy League trophies,” said Brown Football Head Coach James Perry ’00. “Brown Football plays fast, and we will now have the field to complement our playing style.” Brown is the final Ivy League school to still play on natural grass. The upgrade to turf will help modernize Brown’s facility and provide a playing surface more conducive to speed and Perry’s “play fast” coaching philosophy. “As Brown Stadium approaches its centennial, the playing field is the most needed improvement,” says Gouse. “With a new, safe, fast, and advanced artificial turf, Brown will be in an enviable competitive position. I would not have made this gift unless I was convinced that the University is on the right path and has the right leadership to compete for Ivy League championships in football as well as other sports.” Other athletics facilities updates The upgrades to the Brown Stadium field are just one of the many projects to improve Brown’s athletics facilities as part of the BrownTogether campaign. Recent projects include the following: Phase II of renovations to the Marston Boathouse are complete. The $5 million interior renovation has transformed the outdated facilities into a modern, athlete-centered space. Updates include expanded training space, ergometer rooms, and a state-of-the-art ventilation system. Renovations to Meehan Auditorium are also underway. Construction on the $7.5 million project began in March 2021 and is set to wrap up in late summer. Once completed, Brown’s hockey teams will have an entirely revamped locker room center—consisting of men’s and women’s locker room suites and lounges as well as a training room. Brown’s basketball teams will return to Pizzitola Sports Center to find some changes as well. Over the past year, both the men’s and women’s locker rooms and the coaches’ offices have undergone renovations. Giving Brown the competitive edge. Find out more about the Sports Foundation and how you can support Brown student-athletes. LEARN MORE Tags Athletics BrownTogether Campaign Campus & Facilities Giving Philanthropy Related News Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center May 25, 2022 Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 Read Article Open details for Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Alumni & Friends 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day April 14, 2022 Want to help make this Brunonians Pay It Forward Day our biggest yet? Here’s how you can get involved and spread the word about this giving day. Read Article Open details for 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day Alumni & Friends Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 April 3, 2022 This year’s giving day saw the Brown community help raise more than $2.6 million for the Brown Annual Fund. Read Article Open details for Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Football gets a modern home field advantage Open details for Football gets a modern home field advantage Bookmark this Page