Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Financial Aid Breadcrumb Home All News All News Sub Navigation In This Section News & Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories 26 Results based on your selections. News from Brown New Kessler Scholars Program at Brown will expand support for first-gen, low-income students April 12, 2022 Building on the success of the University’s existing FLiSP program, a new five-year, $1 million grant will create the Kessler Scholars Program, a cohort-based model that bolsters support for first-generation, low-income students. Read Article Open details for New Kessler Scholars Program at Brown will expand support for first-gen, low-income students Alumni & Friends One campus, a world of possibilities March 25, 2022 With further investments in financial aid, BrownTogether aims to make need-blind admission for international students a reality. Read Article Open details for One campus, a world of possibilities Alumni & Friends Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign November 2, 2021 Having reached its target more than a year ahead of schedule, the University will continue raising funds for student scholarships and faculty research, while establishing new goals in the months to come. Read Article Open details for Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign News from Brown Brown to significantly expand financial aid and college access October 25, 2021 Buoyed by endowment performance and strength in fundraising, the University will invest in three initiatives supporting undergraduates and Providence students. Read Article Open details for Brown to significantly expand financial aid and college access Alumni & Friends For one young alum, the impact of financial aid continues to reverberate June 16, 2021 Financial aid has the power to open the door to more opportunities. For Gabriel Reyes ’18, it opened up a whole new universe of opportunities. Read Article Open details for For one young alum, the impact of financial aid continues to reverberate Alumni & Friends Removing financial barriers — one promise at a time March 19, 2021 The Brown Promise has made the dream of a Brown education possible for many exceptional students. Through an ongoing giving challenge, we're seeking to make it a permanent part of Brown's financial aid programs. Read Article Open details for Removing financial barriers — one promise at a time Alumni & Friends Creating a home for student veterans December 8, 2020 Brown has taken several steps toward building a more welcoming and supportive environment for student veterans. But none has been more important than boosting the amount of financial aid available to those who have served their country with honor. Read Article Open details for Creating a home for student veterans Alumni & Friends A look back: 2020 highlights December 7, 2020 From providing emergency support to students during a global pandemic to game-changing research in malaria, we're looking back at some important accomplishments supported by Brown donors in a year that was anything but ordinary. Read Article Open details for A look back: 2020 highlights Alumni & Friends How Brown is embracing its veteran community November 17, 2020 With University initiatives and generous community support, more student veterans are making their academic home on College Hill. Read Article Open details for How Brown is embracing its veteran community News from Brown $20 million gift to enable full scholarships for U.S. military veterans at Brown November 11, 2020 A generous gift from U.S. Army veteran and Brown parent Joseph P. Healey will provide crucial support for Brown’s plan to double the number of student veterans enrolled as undergraduates by 2024. Read Article Open details for $20 million gift to enable full scholarships for U.S. military veterans at Brown Alumni & Friends Brown's Giving Tuesday 2020 | December 1 November 2, 2020 With more than $4 million raised by 4,000+ supporters, the Brown community helped make Giving Tuesday 2020 one of our biggest giving days ever. Read Article Open details for Brown&#039;s Giving Tuesday 2020 | December 1 Alumni & Friends What financial aid makes possible September 30, 2020 Talent. Determination. Leadership. With expanded support for financial aid, we're propelling budding leaders forward and helping students become who they were meant to be. Read Article Open details for What financial aid makes possible Alumni & Friends Combating anti-Black racism through education, conversation, and scholarship aid September 29, 2020 As part of the BrownTogether campaign, the University community is supporting a range of diversity and inclusion initiatives that further Brown's long-standing leadership in confronting widespread racial injustice. Read Article Open details for Combating anti-Black racism through education, conversation, and scholarship aid Alumni & Friends How you can help Brown students in this emergency — and beyond May 29, 2020 Amidst the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), alumni and friends have stepped forward to meet our students' immediate needs. But we know that economic hardships will continue to increase in the months to come. Here's how you can help. Read Article Open details for How you can help Brown students in this emergency — and beyond Alumni & Friends Handling With Care: Alumnus guides families through pediatric cancer May 27, 2020 Pediatric neuro-oncologist Stephen Gilheeney ’95 MMSc’97 MD’99 works with children and families affected by brain and spinal cord tumors. Although COVID-19 has changed the way he practices, he credits his experience at Brown—both as an undergraduate and in the Warren Alpert Medical School—with helping him become an exceptional physician. Read Article Open details for Handling With Care: Alumnus guides families through pediatric cancer Alumni & Friends Opening doors for physicians of the future March 10, 2020 By recruiting and supporting more aspiring physicians from underrepresented groups, like Krissia Rivera Perla ’15 MD’21, the Warren Alpert Medical School is increasing diversity at Brown and shaping the future of effective patient care. Read Article Open details for Opening doors for physicians of the future Alumni & Friends In service to those who serve December 6, 2019 How one small community is making a big impact in the lives of Brown’s military-affiliated students. Read Article Open details for In service to those who serve Alumni & Friends Following a code September 27, 2019 By coming to Brown to embrace new challenges — like combining computer science with humanities studies through the Open Curriculum — Turkish student Melis Gökalp ’21 is on a path to improve the lives of those in her home country. Read Article Open details for Following a code Alumni & Friends Gifted a new life through education September 16, 2019 Amra Sabic-El-Rayess ’00 grew up amidst the violence of the Bosnian War. Here, she talks about that harrowing time, the impact a Brown scholarship made in her life, and the difference she plans to make in the lives of future students who have experienced violence. Read Article Open details for Gifted a new life through education Alumni & Friends One gift, 30 scholars...and counting July 9, 2019 Librarian and first-generation alumna Leonilda Gervasi, Class of 1921, left Brown a modest gift through her estate. Since then, there have been more than 30 Gervasi Scholars — and this number continues to grow. Learn more about the transformative power of planned giving. Read Article Open details for One gift, 30 scholars...and counting Alumni & Friends Drawing outside the lines June 14, 2019 With support from the Brown Medical Annual Fund, students like Christopher Demas ’21 are exploring their interests and pursuing innovative ideas outside the classroom. Read Article Open details for Drawing outside the lines Alumni & Friends A promise that’s paid off June 9, 2019 In its inaugural year, The Brown Promise has already made a lasting impact on admissions, socioeconomic diversity, and the future of financial aid. Read Article Open details for A promise that’s paid off Alumni & Friends Meet Brown's champion for Latinx students March 29, 2019 After decades dedicated to expanding diversity in the student body, Mercedes Domenech is honored with a renamed scholarship. Read Article Open details for Meet Brown&#039;s champion for Latinx students Alumni & Friends When we come together: Creating a new scholarship at lightning speed February 13, 2019 With resounding support from the alumni community, a new Annual Fund scholarship benefiting black students at Brown kicks off in 2019-20. Read Article Open details for When we come together: Creating a new scholarship at lightning speed Alumni & Friends Dream Role, Dream School September 18, 2018 First-generation college student and financial aid recipient Viva Sandoval '20 shares how a role in a musical helped ground her at Brown. Read Article Open details for Dream Role, Dream School News from Brown Brown launches campaign to eliminate loans from University undergraduate financial aid packages September 20, 2017 Upon meeting fundraising goal, the University will be able to replace loans with scholarship funds in financial aid awards, building on need-blind admissions and other initiatives to make a Brown education more accessible. Read Article Open details for Brown launches campaign to eliminate loans from University undergraduate financial aid packages Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Financial Aid Open details for Financial Aid Bookmark this Page