Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Princeton Journeys Image Travel the world with Princeton Journeys. With destinations around the globe, Princeton Journeys offers a unique approach to travel combining intellectual conversation with Tiger camaraderie and special access visits for our participants. Find A Trip COVID 19 Update: Princeton Journeys is continuously evaluating our upcoming travel programs with Princeton’s Global Security Unit, our partner tour operators, local government agencies, and co-sponsoring institutions. As this situation is fluid, study leader participation on each trip is not guaranteed. Please read Princeton Journeys’ Terms & Conditions before booking travel; the University is not responsible for changes to trips or travel arrangements due to COVID-19 or for losses or additional expenses resulting from travel. Featured Trips The Princeton Journeys team is excited to share these upcoming educational travel programs with our alumni community. View all upcoming trips. Alluring Aegean: Athens to Istanbul aboard Sea Cloud II — June 27 - July 06, 2022 Paris and Normandy — October 01 - October 09, 2022 Princeton Journeys Interest List Subscribe to the Princeton Journeys travel interest list and be the first to receive notification of all upcoming educational and travel opportunities. Subscribe Now Travel Resources Explore Faculty Bookshelf Learn More Your Travel Story Submit Your Story Live Lectures During this time of social distancing, Princeton Journeys invites you to travel to a different destination, a journey of the mind. Delivered online, Princeton Journeys Live Lectures invite you to join top faculty in virtual conversation. Upcoming Lectures Past Lectures Journey from Home Explore our Staycation Guides, read our travel stories and submit your own memories to be featured on our website. View Staycation Guides Helpful Information Select a category to help plan your journey... Terms and Conditions Insurance Activity Level Contact Us Princeton Journeys on Facebook Everything you need to know before booking a Princeton Journey. See terms and conditions Investigate options for insuring your trip. Insurance options What you need to know about health requirements for travel and activity levels for each journey. See requirements Phone, email and mailing information for contacting Princeton Journeys. Get contact info Follow Princeton Journeys for updates on trips, photo albums from recent journeys and more! Follow Us Traveler Snapshots Day of the Dead: Young Alumni Young alumni traveled to Mexico City to celebrate Día de los Muertos in traditional Mexican style, October 31-November 3, 2019. View more traveler snapshots Day of the Dead: Young Alumni Young alumni traveled to Mexico City to celebrate Día de los Muertos in traditional Mexican style, October 31-November 3, 2019. View more traveler snapshots In the Footsteps of St. James: El Camino de Santiago Princetonians walked the St. Paul's pilgrimage route to Santiago de Compostela, Spain, August 23 - September 4, 2019. View more traveler snapshots Alaska: A Backcountry Adventure Princetonians traveled on an engaging nine-day adventure exploring the incredible wonders of the Alaska Range, June 8-16, 2019. View more traveler snapshots. Total Solar Eclipse: Chile & the Skies of the Southern Hemisphere Princetonians traveled on a special-access astrophysical and astronomical adventure to the Chilean highlands to experience the total solar eclipse along its path of totality, June 25 to July 6, 2019. View more traveler snapshots Passage through the Panama Canal and Costa Rica Travelers joined renowned Princeton molecular biologist Bonnie Bassler, February 2-10, 2019, to escape the cold on a voyage through the historic Panama Canal and to the rich rain forests of Costa Rica and Panama. View more traveler snapshots Journey to Antarctica: The White Continent Traveling December 7-20, 2019, by crossing the Antarctic Convergence, Princetonians joined the ranks of the legendary explorers who’ve ventured to Antarctica. And, some have even joined another illustrious and exclusive society — the "Seven Continent Club." View more traveler snapshots Seeking Happiness: The Kingdom of Bhutan Princeton Journeys adventured to the last living Vajrayana Buddhist Kingdom, the Kingdom of Bhutan, nestled in the eastern Himalayan Mountains, October 16-25, 2019. View more traveler snapshots Total Solar Eclipse: Chile & the Skies of the Southern Hemisphere Princetonians traveled on a special-access astrophysical and astronomical adventure to the Chilean highlands to experience the total solar eclipse along its path of totality, June 25 to July 6, 2019. View more traveler snapshots Alaska: A Backcountry Adventure Princetonians traveled on an engaging nine-day adventure exploring the incredible wonders of the Alaska Range, June 8-16, 2019. View more traveler snapshots. Total Solar Eclipse: Chile & the Skies of the Southern Hemisphere Princetonians traveled on a special-access astrophysical and astronomical adventure to the Chilean highlands to experience the total solar eclipse along its path of totality, June 25 to July 6, 2019. View more traveler snapshots Cuba X: Young Alumni Frozen-in-time and yet swirling with change, Cuba is entering a period of dramatic economic, social and cultural transformation in the post-Castro era. At this pivotal moment, a group of young Princeton alumni traveled to Havana January 25-28, 2019, to gain invaluable first-hand understanding through the eyes of the Cuban people. View more traveler snapshots Egypt: Land of the Pharaohs, January 3-15 For all of recorded time, the mighty waters of Egypt's Nile River have been the source of life-giving sustenance, cultural riches and mythic power. Princeton Journeys was delighted to bring 28 travelers back to Egypt to explore the glorious age of the Pharaohs aboard the Sun Boat III, January 3-15, 2019. View more traveler photos Journey to Antarctica: The White Continent December 7-20, 2019, by crossing the Antarctic Convergence, Princetonians joined the ranks of the legendary explorers who’ve ventured to Antarctica. And, some have even joined another illustrious and exclusive society — the "Seven Continent Club." View more traveler snapshots Cuba X: Young Alumni Frozen-in-time and yet swirling with change, Cuba is entering a period of dramatic economic, social and cultural transformation in the post-Castro era. At this pivotal moment, a group of young Princeton alumni traveled to Havana January 25-28, 2019, to gain invaluable first-hand understanding through the eyes of the Cuban people. View more traveler snapshots The Historic Rhine Travelers explored the many rich layers of history and culture - from ancient Rome to World War II to opera and mythology - present along the picturesque Rhine River, May 6-19. Travelers cruised from Basel to Amsterdam, while exploring charming villages, stunning cathedrals, beautiful vistas, and World War II battle sites. View more traveler snapshots Galápagos Aboard the National Geographic Endeavour II A group of intrepid Princetonians met in Guayaquil - the largest, most populous city in Ecuador before sailing 600 miles to the Galápagos Islands. In this magical place, travelers encountered sea lions, fur seals, marine iguanas, sea turtles, penguins, and a wealth of bird life, such as the blue-footed boobies, January 3-12, 2020. View more traveler snapshots All Princeton Journeys See All the Options Give Make an Impact Connect Get Involved Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram