Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Parents and families Parents taking pictures of students during 2013 Move-In Day. Photo: Robert Barker/Cornell Marketing Group Explore all that it means to be part of Cornell When your student decides to attend Cornell, you become Cornellians, too. As a member of our family, you can explore all that it means to be part of Cornell and to connect with alumni and fellow parents on campus or in your area. Join us at Cornell events around the world. Serve as a CornellSOCIAL Ambassador. Find ways to learn alongside your student. Stay current on Cornell news. Discover and support the areas that mean the most to you. Cornell community Cornell traditions Visit Ithaca Parents and family giving Learn and travel News Learn more about us Helpful Links Student and campus life Plan an admissions visit Explore career services Cornell Commencement Join events near you Big Red, everywhere, all the time SEE EVENTS Find an opportunity CUVolunteer: your portal to volunteering for Cornell VOLUNTEER Eleanor Applewhaite and Pauline Degenfelder at the Cornell Alumni Leadership Conference (CALC). Photo: Robert Barker/Cornell Marketing Group Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022