Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Volunteer Princeton is where you are, and you make a difference for Princeton and the world wherever you are. Service, both to the University and to humanity, is an enduring value for alumni. WATCH: Morgan Smith ’21 From Princeton to Chicago, Morgan Smith ’21 leads through service At Princeton, Morgan Smith developed a sense of self through helping others. Today, she works for Chicago Volunteer Legal Services, a pro bono legal aid organization that represents the interests of children. Get Involved I want to... Volunteer for the Alumni Council Volunteer for Annual Giving Interview prospective Princeton students Find opportunities in the arts Find opportunities with Athletics Volunteer with my class Assist alumni and student entrepreneurs Support students and alumni professionally Find volunteer opportunities near me Volunteer with graduate alumni Help at Reunions Volunteer with the Princeton Prize in Race Relations (PPRR) Get involved by joining a committee. Explore Opportunities Work with your class or fellow graduate alumni to fund your experience forward, support financial aid and faculty recruitment, and so much more. Explore Opportunities Join the Alumni Schools Committee to help introduce Princeton to high school students. Explore Opportunities Create and support a network and resources for fellow alumni in the arts. Explore Opportunities Through Athletics Friends Groups, help support each of the 37 varsity athletics teams. Explore Opportunities Support your class through class gatherings, service projects, local dinners, mini-reunions and more. Explore Opportunities Help young innovators and startups network and grow. Learn More Mentor students and your fellow Princetonians as they embark on or continue on their career paths. Explore Opportunities Connect with your regional association and see how you can get involved close to home. Explore Opportunities Join fellow graduate alumni around the world and become an active volunteer for Princeton. Explore Opportunities Support the efforts of your class by helping plan the greatest event of the year! Explore Opportunities The Princeton Prize in Race Relations (PPRR) recognizes and rewards high school students who, through their volunteer activities, have undertaken significant efforts to advance racial equity and understanding in their schools or communities. PPRR operates through 28 regional committees and an at-large committee composed of over 400 alumni volunteers. Each committee is responsible for awarding one Princeton Prize and may also award Certificates of Accomplishment for notable work. For more information contact: pprize@princeton.edu “I see service as something that is multidimensional. It is not just a professional pursuit … service is also much more basic. It is about the relationships we build with families, friends and others in our communities. And service is also about our involvement in the world as citizens and voters, and as participants in our civic society.” — Sonia Sotomayor ’76, Associate Justice, United States Supreme Court Tigers Who Serve Your commitment to fellow alumni and to the initiatives of the University helps the Princeton community thrive. All Volunteer Stories For Grace Baylis ’20 and the Class of 2020, this year is a ‘major’ reunion The spirit of service drives Annual Giving campaign Helm Award-winner Laurence Latimer *01 raises his hand for Annual Giving Call to service for LGBTQ activist Suman Chakraborty ’97 began at Princeton All Volunteer Stories One-Stop Shop Find everything you need to succeed as a volunteer in one place, from guidebooks to toolkits. Whether your volunteer role is with Annual Giving, your class, region or affinity group, you’ll get what you need here. Get Resources Annual Giving Forward Together Alumni Conferences Enjoy Them Again Our Community Get Involved Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram