Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home Alumni Email Alumni Email Your Columbia Inbox The Columbia Alumni Association offers alumni free, Web-based email (UNI and password required) that includes a Customizable name @caa.columbia.edu with no forwarding required. Maintain a Web-based email address @caa.columbia.edu and stay connected! Create or manage an account Access my existing Columbia inbox This service is provided through a partnership between the Columbia Alumni Association and Google and your account will have all the features of Gmail, including relevant advertising displayed near your inbox. Read more about Google's policies at Google Help. Read more about the CAA's email services in our Email FAQs. Recent Graduates If you are currently using LionMail, your email service will remain uninterrupted at this address. For LionMail help, please contact the CUIT Service Desk at 212-854-1919, or [email protected]. (You can still set up email forwarding or create a CAA alumni email account.) If you were not using LionMail as a student, CAA alumni email services will be available to you about ninety days after graduation. Please note that we cannot provide alumni online access to certificate holders, alumni of affiliate schools, current students, faculty, or staff. Affiliate school services can be found on the CUIT Web site. Additionally, post-doctoral programs, residencies, and fellowships are considered employment, and therefore ineligible for alumni online services, including alumni email. Have a question? Check out alumni email FAQs. Visit the Gmail Help Center for technical support (NB: the Columbia Alumni Association does not provide technical support for Gmail). Having trouble accessing CAA online services on your browser? Try clearing your browser cache. Here are some instructions on how to do this in Chrome and Firefox browsers. Email Forwarding Attention: Beginning on October 22, 2019, you will not be able to create new forwarding to email systems outside the University. Existing forwarding will continue to function until March 17, 2020, but will still be subject to limitations from security measures implemented by many institutions and companies. After March 17, 2020, UNI mail-forwarding to Columbia systems (Ex. [email protected] to [email protected] or [email protected]) will continue to be available. For detailed information, click here. For a full list of permitted forwarding destinations, click here. Create/manage an account with your UNI Email Forwarding FAQ Terms and Conditions Users of CAA-provided email benefits (email forwarding and @caa.columbia.edu alumni email accounts) must abide by the Terms and Conditions of the Online Alumni Community (Alumni UNI and password required. Don't have a UNI password? Get help here.) and University Policies. Misuse of alumni email accounts is strictly prohibited. Anyone found to be in violation shall have their privileges revoked. Examples of misuse include using CAA email to: send unwanted communications or commercial electronic mail (i.e. spam) per CAN-SPAM policies engage in illegal or unethical activities harass, demean, or threaten others violate the privacy policies or data integrity of Columbia University Access My Inbox Login Help If you don't know your UNI or password, Visit our Login Help page for assistance. Login Help Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close