Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Career Services You are here: Home1 / Career Services Welcome to Career Services Alumni Career Services provides registered alumni with life-long career support designed for different stages of your career. Alumni gain access to a plethora of tools and services, including an alumni job board, subscription to “The Best Job Search Tool on the Internet,” access to mentoring and connection opportunities, alumni career fairs, local networking opportunities, and the ability to request in-person training on how to navigate the job search using the resources provided. Eligibility We work with Clemson alumni who have been out of school 1-year or longer. Students and recent graduates will continue to work with the Center for Career and Professional Development. How can we best help you? I am an Alumna/Alumnus I am a Current Student or Recent Alum I am a Faculty or Staff Member I am an Employer Additional Tools and Opportunities Experience Network Registered alumni gain access to Experience, a career services software that has helped guide more than 5 million students and alumni nationwide into the workforce by matching interests, skill sets and core competencies with available positions. More than 130,000 employers use the Experience network to recruit top talent. Register/Login Alumni CareerLink Registered alumni have access to the alumni job board, Alumni Career Link. We have worked hard to build employer relationships that will benefit alumni, and the job opportunities within Alumni Career Link are the result. Find your next career CareerShift Recently named “The Best Job Search Tool on the Internet,” Careershift is a job hunting and career management solution that is designed to manage and streamline the job search. Registered alumni will get up-to-date contact information (including email addresses) for millions of companies, and in-depth information about contacts, companies and job postings. Once registered for Alumni Career Services, alumni are given an access code to establish a Careershift account. Register/Login TigerLink Gateway The TigerLink Gateway is Clemson’s campus-wide mentoring initiative and the entryway to career connections. The Gateway helps facilitate career-related conversations between students, Clemson alumni, faculty & staff, friends of Clemson, and industry leaders around the globe. Community members can seek knowledge and advice, explore career fields, become a mentor, join an official mentoring group or program, and build professional networks. Register/Login Alumni Career Fairs Whether you are looking to start a new career or take the next step in your current career, Alumni Career Fairs will connect you with employers all over the United States who are seeking to hire Clemson Alumni. Each Career Fair is focused in a specific geographic location where employers are hiring. Through a new virtual platform sponsored by Go Hire Talent, alumni can learn about positions in other locations across the country and realize their dream of finding the right career in the right location. Register/Login Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Faculty Member Employer Job Listings Tools and Opportunities Mentorship Career Fairs – Employer Registration Career Fairs – Job Seeker Registration Registration Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info