Skip to main content View sitemap About Contact Update Your Information Give Alumni Resources Search form Search searchSearch Engage 50th Anniversary Celebrations Coeducation at 50 50 for 50 Storytelling Project Dartmouth on Location Events Future of Work Alumni Travel Homecoming Reunions Dartmouth 250 Connect Career Resources Contact Alumni Relations Find Alumni Find a Club Find a Group Find Your Class Recent Graduates Students Volunteer Resources Learn Alumni News Alumni Travel Dartmouth on Location Dartmouth on Location: Kids DartmouthX Faculty Presentations Career Hubs Good Reads TED Talks Podcasts Serve Admissions Ambassadors Alumni Council Association of Alumni Dartmouth Serves Recognition Volunteer Resources You are here Home » Engage Dartmouth Homecoming Header Image Join us for Homecoming in Hanover or beyond! We are thrilled to welcome alumni to campus for Homecoming weekend, October 28-29, 2022. The weekend will celebrate reconnecting with campus and the Dartmouth community. Gather with classmates and friends on Friday night for Dartoberfest, the annual Homecoming parade, Dartmouth Night and, of course, the legendary bonfire. As the fire winds down, join us for some postglow merriment and treats. Kick off Saturday with a back to class lecture, then tailgate with old friends and new before catching the Big Green take on Harvard at Memorial Field. After the game, grab dinner in Hanover and join class dinners, mini reunions, and more. Watch this space for additional details and activities. Dartmouth Health and Safety Policies for Covid-19 will be in effect for Homecoming weekend events. To view the policies, please visit our COVID-19 Frequently Asked Questions page. Menu 50th Anniversary Celebrations Coeducation at 50 50 for 50 Storytelling Project Dartmouth on Location Events Future of Work Alumni Travel Homecoming Reunions Dartmouth 250 Future Homecoming Dates Future Homecoming Dates 2022 | October 28–29 Playing Harvard Dartmouth College News Honoring Their Service and Sacrifice Geisel School of Medicine Celebrates the Class of 2022 John Cho '22 Explores Identity in Politics Dartmouth Aires Celebrate 75th Anniversary Kudos: Mock Trial Society Makes the Case View all Dartmouth College News Socialize Dartmouth Alumni Engage Connect Learn Serve About Contact Update Your Information Give Alumni Resources Facebook Flickr Instagram Linkedin Big Green Social Twitter Alumni Directory Career Network Dartmouth College Geisel Alumni Guarini Alumni Thayer Alumni Tuck Alumni Dartmouth College Giving to Dartmouth Advancement Division Contact Us Dartmouth Compliance and ethics hotline © Copyright 2018 Trustees of Dartmouth College. All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy