Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Parent & Family Giving As part of our vibrant and proud extended family, you sustain and strengthen Brown's distinctive brand of academic excellence and enhance educational opportunity for all students through your generosity. Breadcrumb Home Giving Sub Navigation In This Section How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Parent & Family Giving As part of our vibrant and proud extended family, you sustain and strengthen Brown's distinctive brand of academic excellence and enhance educational opportunity for all students through your generosity. Building a Future Together When your student enters Brown, a new world—one that you, your student, and Brown build together—comes alive. This shared journey into excellence and educational opportunity becomes even more meaningful for some families when they give through the parent and family giving program. In fact, Brown’s tradition of parental support—which accounts for nearly 20% of the total philanthropy to the University each year—is the most robust in the Ivy League. When it comes to giving, engaged parents and families have several choices: The Parents Fund. An annual giving fund that allows Brown to maintain and expand the unparalleled educational opportunities and resources that ensure the success of our students. Programmatic support. Current-use funds in many priorities that offer families a choice to expand their giving in areas where their students are engaged. Capstone commitments. Multi-year commitments to targeted areas within the University that may coincide with a students’ emerging academic, research, or extracurricular passions; or to priorities that align with existing family philanthropy. Planned giving. A gift that includes the University in the family’s estate planning. In addition, some families involve students in their giving decisions and establish a meaningful tradition of shared family giving to Brown. Students may choose to join the Student Philanthropy Council, the Senior Class Gift Committee, or the Brown Annual Fund Young Leadership Council. And families whose total annual support to the University exceeds $15,000 are eligible to join a special giving society: Brown Family Fellows. Your family’s gift—whatever the size—will make an immediate difference for your child and their classmates. Your support can be felt everywhere. It's in the books that feed their quest for knowledge. It's in the classes that transform how they think. And, it's in the experience they will cherish for a lifetime. Brown wouldn't be where we are without the generosity and support of our families. Together, you've made our parent and family giving program one of the best in the country — and are a constant source of our community's strength and resilience. “ When we welcome a new student to Brown, we are welcoming the family as well. Parents are deeply valued members of this community, and we encourage their active participation and involvement in the life of the University. ” President Christina H. Paxson Brown prepares its students to forge their own paths. We invite you to journey alongside them. For more information, contact: Laura B. Smith ’06 Director of Parent and Family Giving laura_beth_smith@brown.edu Related information Brown Parents and Family Information Parents Leadership Council Related stories News from Brown New Kessler Scholars Program at Brown will expand support for first-gen, low-income students April 12, 2022 Building on the success of the University’s existing FLiSP program, a new five-year, $1 million grant will create the Kessler Scholars Program, a cohort-based model that bolsters support for first-generation, low-income students. Read Article Open details for New Kessler Scholars Program at Brown will expand support for first-gen, low-income students News from Brown Brown admits 2,546 students to the undergraduate Class of 2026 March 31, 2022 The University offered admission on Thursday, March 31, to prospective members of next year’s incoming class, who were selected from Brown’s largest applicant pool to date. Read Article Open details for Brown admits 2,546 students to the undergraduate Class of 2026 Alumni & Friends One campus, a world of possibilities March 25, 2022 With further investments in financial aid, BrownTogether aims to make need-blind admission for international students a reality. Read Article Open details for One campus, a world of possibilities Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Parent & Family Giving Open details for Parent & Family Giving Bookmark this Page