Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Gift Planning Donors and Their Gifts Many alumni have found gift planning to be a thoughtful way to make a significant gift to Harvard while addressing personal financial needs. Here are some of their stories. Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers February 10, 2022 Alumni Profiles Transforming Opportunities Deacon Turner ’91 shares how his journey out of poverty to the Yard inspires him to do what he can for students like him to thrive March 12, 2021 Alumni Profiles Showing Her Commitment Melissa Blair Fisher ’94, MBA ’98 always knew she wanted to make a bequest to Harvard. Her 25th Reunion inspired her to make it happen. March 11, 2021 Alumni Profiles A Consummate Volunteer Charlie Egan ’54, P’86, ’83 has never stopped being a champion for Harvard. October 14, 2020 Alumni Profiles Philanthropy Supporting Graduate Students with a Bequest As a trailblazer for women in business, Sandy Moose PhD ’68 credits the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences for giving her the foundation to succeed—though perhaps not in the way you'd expect. October 6, 2020 Campus & Community Planning for Future Impact Peter Kyunghwan Kim ’91 and his wife, Sarah, have always wanted to give back to Harvard. The Office of Gift Planning helped them decide how. May 20, 2020 Philanthropy Planning for Retirement Moitri Chowdhury Savard ’93 plans for retirement through a Harvard deferred charitable gift annuity (DGA). For Savard, it’s a practical decision to support her family and another way to give back to an interest close to her heart: public service. May 20, 2020 Alumni Profiles Philanthropy Carrying the Flag for Harvard Bill '60 and Carole Markus established a bequest to the Faculty of Arts and Sciences early on in their marriage, which is going on 57½ years. They like knowing that their planned bequest, which is largely unrestricted, will complement gifts they’ve made for House Renewal and financial aid in honor of Bill’s reunions. August 24, 2019 Alumni Profiles Philanthropy Head and Heart for Harvard Ed Stolper ’74, PhD ’79 established a Harvard charitable remainder unitrust because he wants to make a lasting contribution for the good of Harvard. August 23, 2019 Alumni Profiles Philanthropy Personal Philanthropy Walking into Harvard’s Financial Aid Office changed her life, says Angela Sun ’96, JD ’01. March 12, 2019 Alumni Profiles Philanthropy Keeping Standards High at Harvard Peter Lewy ’60 has made a series of charitable gift annuities to ensure Harvard’s continued excellence. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Next page ›› Last page Last » Contact Planned Giving Email: ogp@harvard.edu Phone: 617-496-3205 or 1-800-VERITAS (ask for the Office of Gift Planning) Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College