Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month Pride Month UC Alumni Association » Get Involved » Summer Camps for Kids Set Navigation title in component Update Your Info College Networks A&S Alumni Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups African American Alumni Affiliate 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Summer Camp for Kids Children’s Summer Camps Make UC Campus a Popular Destination Many children of UC alumni can be found on campus during the summer engaging in a wide variety of activities. Here’s a partial list of what’s coming up in the summer of 2022. DAAP Day Camps DAAPcamps attract hundreds of students from all over the country to explore the disciplines at DAAP. Camp Leads are faculty and professionals in the individual industries of Fashion Design, Industrial Design, Shoe Design, Graphic Communication Design, Architecture and Interior Design, Fine Art disciplines, and Animation and Digital Film-Making. Studios offer a combination of hands-on work, visits with professionals, individual and team problem-solving and design initiatives and more. College of Engineering and Applied Science Summer Camps From learning to prototype and problem-solve to coding and programming, the College of Engineering and Applied Science offers unique summer camp experiences for everyone, especially elementary and high school students interested in pursuing careers in STEM. Early IT Summer Camp The Early IT two-week virtual summer day camp gives students a foundation in Information Technology, including cybersecurity, software development, game development and simulations, data and cloud technologies. Students will have the opportunity to experience hands-on learning of current technologies, work in groups to develop their own IT solutions, and learn from college professors and IT business leaders. REC Kids Summer Camp Kids, teens and even adults have the chance to experience the performing arts at CCM this summer through week-long day camps, multi-week residencies and elective classes, working with CCM’s world-class faculty and renowned guest artists, all at the state-of-the-art CCM Village. Bearcats Baseball Camps Bearcats Baseball Camps offer skills instruction, games and other baseball-related activities, directed by UC coaches and current players. Wes Miller Basketball Camp Taught by UC Men’s Basketball coaches and current/former Bearcats players, the Wes Miller Basketball Camp teaches young players (from rising K through high school) the basic fundamentals of the game in a safe and fun environment. Cincinnati Women’s Basketball Camps Aspiring basketball players can participate in the Kids Camp or the Team Camp, designed to build fundamentals on all aspects of the game. Luke Fickell Football Camps Young aspiring football players can benefit from the instruction of UC Football’s energetic coaching staff, learning fundamentals, strength and conditioning, and the basics of offense, defense and special teams. Molly Alvey Volleyball Camps Rising volleyball players will receive detailed technical instruction in all areas of the game. The camps are designed with multiple skills levels in mind. Bearcats Elite Soccer Training B.E.S.T. camps and clinics offer a range of soccer instruction based on the skill level and aspirations of the participants, with athletes grouped by age and ability in order to receive the optimal technical and tactical instruction. Cincinnati Women’s Lacrosse Camps Girls can take part in a summer youth camp for grades 3 through 7, or the elite camp for grades 8 through 12. Breakthrough Cincinnati Bearcats Academy is a multi-year mentoring program conducted in partnership with Aiken, Hughes and Taft high schools, pairing students with UC undergraduate mentors. Rising high school seniors can take advantage of a summer program component. Upward Bound UC Upward Bound contains both academic-year and six-week hybrid summer programs with a residential campus life experience including classroom instruction, tutoring, college readiness counseling, college tours and cultural experiences. There are Summer Bridge and Summer Pre-Bridge programs for high school students. Fluency Friday One-day workshops for students (4th through 12th grades) who stutter and their parents/caregivers. Programs are led by licensed speech-language pathologists with the assistance of graduate clinicians from UC. Medical Sciences Summer Institute The UC College of Medicine’s summer workshop serves high school sophomores and juniors interested in careers in medicine or other healthcare-related fields. Students will work in a state-of-the-art laboratory, form hypotheses, design experiments, analyze data and communicate their conclusions at a research symposium. University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top