Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month Pride Month UC Alumni Association » Inclusive Excellence » Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Set Navigation title in component Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month Pride Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month UC Alumni Association Celebrates Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month From the inventor of the Pentium computer chip to one of the world’s premier sculptors, to the innovative coroner who helped create one of the country’s most technologically advanced crime labs, the University of Cincinnati has a rich tradition of achievement by our Asian, Asian-American and Pacific-American alumni. For this reason, the UC Alumni Association proudly marks Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month — celebrating generations of UC excellence reflected in our past and promised in our future. APA Alumni Yogini (Kanthi) Biswas, CEAS ’02, is VP of Marketing and Chief Brand Officer for Brighthouse Financial, one of the largest providers annuities and life insurance in the U.S. Nine years after being named UC’s Homecoming Queen in 2002, Cindy Chiang-Halvorsen, CEAS ’04, and her future husband won Season 19 of The Amazing Race, using the $1 million top prize to start an education-based charity. A member of the UC Foundation’s Board of Trustees, Lourdes Harshe, BUS ’92, is a Tax Managing Director with Deloitte Tax’s Global Employer Services where she helps lead the firm’s workforce transformation efforts. UC assistant professor of nursing, transcultural nurse implementation scientist and curator of Asian American storytelling Minjin Kim, PhD seeks to lift Asian voices to help defeat discrimination. Bhavik Modi, BUS ’15, is co-founder and CEO of Chicago’s Azadi Brewing Company, an innovative Indian-centric brewery that affiliates its products with Indian cuisine. Elected mayor of Cincinnati in 2021, Aftab Pureval, LAW ’08, is the first Asian American mayor of a major Midwestern U.S. city. (Photo credit: John Minchillo/AP) Hamilton County coroner, certified neuroradiologist and entrepreneur Dr. Lakshmi Kode Sammarco, MD, MED ’88, helped create one of the country’s most technologically advanced crime labs. The only person to have performed standup comedy on all seven continents, Rajiv Satyal, CEAS ’00, has built a multifaceted career as a comedian, podcast host, blogger and speaker. The work of renowned sculptor Norikazu “Tom” Tsuchiya, A&S ’95, has immortalized a wide variety of figures, notably athletes, in displays ranging from universities and churches to ballparks and the Baseball Hall of Fame. The youngest-ever prizewinner in the Tchaikovsky International Competition, world-renowned violinist Alyssa Park, CCM ’96, is Concertmaster of the New West Symphony and member of the Lyris Quartet. A widely recognized IT visionary and expert in mobile telelphony and wireless broadband access, Leo Chan, BUS ’01, is Executive Director of the Midwest USA Chinese Chamber of Commerce. Vinod Dham, CEAS ’77, developed the original Pentium processor at Intel, unleashing a revolution in the computing field and the way the world operates. He became known in his industry as the “Father of the Pentium.” Nominate a Bearcat Nominate a Bearcat alumnus for a future heritage or awareness month alumni spotlight. Nominate University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top