Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Giving Harvard University Gift Policy Guide Menu Main menu Giving Overview Give Online Planned Giving Gifts That Pay You Income Lead Trusts Assets You Can Give Events Harvard Planned Gift Administration Resources Meet the Staff Contact Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Types of Bequests How to Make a Bequest Benefits of a Bequest Future Use Attorney & Advisor Info Gift Policy Guide Tax Information FAQ Giving Contacts Throughout its history, Harvard University has benefited from the generosity and foresight of philanthropists. The work of the institution—to expand and deepen knowledge, to advance teaching and learning, and to drive progress across many areas of human endeavor—would not be possible without the consistent commitment and thoughtful support of donors who have helped build and grow the University over centuries. Harvard’s Gift Policy Guide outlines the manner in which philanthropic gifts are considered, accepted, and administered within Harvard. Download the Harvard University Gift Policy Guide (PDF) Have Questions? For assistance, visit the Giving Contacts page or contact Alumni and Development Services at ads@harvard.edu or (617) 495-1750. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College