Skip to main content ncstate-alumni-wolf-web Alumni Association Menu Close About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Landscapes & Lighthouses of Coastal Maine facebook twitter linked in email About About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine NC State Magazine Merchandise Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Landscapes & Lighthouses of Coastal Maine October 8 to 14, 2022 Starting Price: $3,299 per person (with discount below), double occupancy, airfare included from Raleigh-Durham. Call for pricing from your hometown. Special Note: Make your final payment by check prior to the final payment due date to receive $400 per couple/$200 per person booking discount. Activity Level: Easy Travel type: Land Tour Partner: Premier World Discovery Brochure: Download PDF Reservations: To ask questions or make a reservation, call WolfTreks Travel Manager Kathy Hart at 919-515-0508 or send an email to hart@ncsu.edu. WolfTreks highly recommends the purchase of travel insurance. Our trusted partner, Meyer and Associates, provides travel insurance options to meet your needs and budget, including: • Trip cancellations or interruptions • Trip delays or missed connections • Medical expenses, including emergency medical evacuation • Cancel or interrupt for any reason • Pre-existing condition waivers Click below for additional information or call 866-679-7836. Learn More From the iconic lighthouses perched along sparkling bays to Portland’s cobblestone streets boasting award-winning restaurants, Maine offers unique landscapes and experiences for everyone. Begin your journey with an overnight in the Boston area followed by a comprehensive city tour highlighted by historic Fenway Park. The walking tour of America’s oldest ballpark will bring alive past glories and history. Following some free time at Faneuil Hall Marketplace, enjoy an afternoon ride along Maine’s beautiful coastline. Check in to your award-winning hotel for a five-night stay overlooking the Kennebunk River and a short walk to the resort town of Kennebunkport and Colony Beach. Day 3 brings us north to Portland and a Casco Bay Cruise to see lighthouses, forts, lobster boats and seals. Visit the Victoria Mansion, also known as the Morse Libby House, the nation’s premier showpiece of Victorian architecture. Enjoy some leisure time in Old Port Historic District before heading to Cape Elizabeth for a visit of the Portland Head Lighthouse and Museum, one of America’s oldest and most photographed lighthouses. The following day you explore Maine’s picturesque southern coast with its quaint seaside villages and historic mansions. In Kennebunkport, see the Wedding Cake House, an over-exuberant version of gingerbread Victorian architecture; visit the Seashore Trolley Museum; and take in the view from Walker’s Point, the longtime summer retreat of George H.W. Bush and family. Later board a working lobster boat to participate in an authentic, hands-on lobster haul. The day is topped off with an authentic lobster clambake. Enjoy a leisure day to explore on our own or take an optional excursion to Boothbay Harbor. Next head inland to explore the rugged beauty of New Hampshire’s White Mountains. Arrive in the quintessential New England village of North Conway and board the Conway Scenic Railroad for a nostalgic ride through the scenic Mt. Washington Valley countryside. Later a motorcoach ride along the Kancamagus Highway offers one of America’s most scenic drives with sweeping views of the White Mountains National Forest. Stop at a local Maple Sugar House, and end your holiday with a memorable Farewell Dinner back in Maine. Consider joining us on this unforgettable experience. Reserve your space today! Friends and Family Welcome! You don’t have to be an NC State graduate to travel with WolfTreks! Let’s Get Social For all the latest WolfTreks news, traveler photos and travel tips, join our Facebook group and follow us on Instagram. WolfTreks Mailing List Join our WolfTreks mailing list to receive trip brochures and email information. Alumni Association Home Campus Box 7503 NC State University Raleigh NC 27695-7503 919.515.3375 Campus Map About Membership Events Engagement News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.