Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Privacy Yale Online Alumni Community and YaleMail Privacy Policy Yale University is committed to preserving the privacy of alumni and other affiliates (such as post-doctoral fellows) of the university. The Yale Online Alumni Community has password-protected, secure areas and services that enable alumni and affiliates of the university to connect with each other. Such services include the Online Alumni Directory, the “YaleMail” Gmail service for alumni, and My Profile for updating and submitting contact and other information. Additional services offered in the future will also fall under this policy. You can read this policy here. Additional Privacy and Policy Information Yale Online Alumni Community Terms of Use Yale University Privacy Policy G Suite for Education Privacy Notice Confidentiality Policy for Alumni Affairs and Development Volunteers Alumni Affairs and Development Personal Information Disclosure Yale University Information Technology Appropriate Use Policy Additional Links Update Your Information Keep your contact information up to date so you don't miss out on events in your area or campus news of interest. You can update your contact information through the Online Alumni Community and manage your email preferences there as well. Log In Now Need Help? Do you need information on services such as the online community, Yale College Reunions, regional clubs, awards, and more? Visit the YAA Help Center! Help Center You May Also Be Interested In Features Congratulations graduates, and welcome to the Yale alumni community! Alumni Voices Letter from the Executive Director: Your Voice. Your Vote. Your Yale. News Angela Bassett, Garry Trudeau to serve as the Yale Day of Service Honorary Co-Chairs Features Yale Day of Service 2022: Transforming the world together Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page