Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Alumni Main Navigation Membership Events Student Outreach Awards & Scholarships About Us Newsletter Travel CLASS OF 2022 GRAD SPECIAL Graduating Titans, the Alumni Association would like to extend a one-time special discount of $57 for an alumni lifetime membership! Join today and receive this special welcome pack (pictured). This special price expires on June 30th, 2022. Regular pricing at the rate of $149 applies to all members who join after June 30th. Grad Special Alumni Lifetime Membership Become a lifetime member of the Alumni Association for a one-time rate of $149. Your membership purchase grants you lifetime access to unique privileges, resources and includes a 20% contribution to the Alumni Association scholarship fund. Join Today Member Benefits AESU YOUNG ALUMNI TRAVEL Embark on the Classic Europe Grad Trip, which brings together a group of 40-50 graduates annually to explore Europe together. Or travel to intriguing destinations with fellow Titan travelers who have also graduated within the last 10 years. Enjoy this member benefit through AESU and travel with fellow Titan explorers! AHI TRAVEL For more than 50 years AHI Travel has dedicated themselves to providing the very best service, travel experiences and value for their travelers. Alumni Association Members are welcome to book a trip of a lifetime with AHI Travel. View Trips . ALUMNI LIBRARY CARD To obtain your alumni library card, fill out this Titan Alumni Card form and email it to alumnimembership@fullerton.edu . Once the Alumni membership team confirms your membership they will let you know when you are cleared to pick up your alumni library card at the Pollak Library and begin checking out books! The Titan Alumni Card allows you to access all 23 CSU Libraries and receive check-out privileges at that campus, too. Remote online database access and interlibrary loans are not available to alumni at this time; online databases are available onsite only. AUTOMOBILE CLUB OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA For more than 100 years, the Automobile Club of Southern California (AAA) . has been helping its members on the side of the road. AAA’s legendary Roadside Assistance will cover you within the U.S. or Canada in any car, SUV or pickup truck, at any time, day or night, even if you are the passenger. You can save more than the cost of your membership every year by taking advantage of AAA Discounts for dining, shopping and family fun, with access to the full-service AAA Travel Agency and much more. Alumni Association members must present their membership card to an agent in order to confirm eligibility. The $20 new member initiation fee is waived for Alumni Association members. DELL Enjoy special pricing on Dell laptops, electronics and accessories through Dell's Alumni Association Member Purchase Program! Browse and start shopping today! REDPOINT TRAVEL INSURANCE Rest easy knowing your next travel adventure is protected. The CSUF Alumni Association has partnered with Redpoint Travel Insurance to ensure our alumni have the most comprehensive and flexible travel insurance protection against unexpected travel issues. GEICO Enjoy low rates, exceptional 24-hour customer service and high-quality auto insurance to over 15.5 million policyholders in the United States. In addition to car insurance, GEICO can help insure your motorcycle and the GEICO Insurance Agency can help you with homeowners, renters, condo, boat insurance, and more. For your free rate quote visit geico.com/alum/csuf , call (800) 368-2734, or visit a local GEICO office to find out how much you could save today. Be sure to mention your Cal State Fullerton Alumni Association affiliation to be eligible for the special discount on auto insurance. STUDENT RECREATION CENTER (SRC) Alumni Association members can become members of the SRC! Enjoy approximately 40 hours of drop-in fitness classes and specials rates for fee-based services such as personal training at the award-winning SRC! Student Recreation Center Membership pricing for Alumni Association Members: Annual: $300 Per academic semester: $120 Monthly: $25 TITAN SHOPS Receive a one–time 20% discount on CSUF emblematic merchandise. Coupon valid in-store only and must be presented at time of purchase. Visit the Titan Shops website . POST-GRADUATION CAREER SERVICES Titan grads have full access to all CSUF Career Center resources for up to one year after graduation. Recent grads, take full advantage of all Career Center resources, including in-person and one-on-one resources. Alumni Association members have lifetime access to online Career Center resources. MERCER-HIGH QUALITY INSURANCE PLANS Take advantage of special rates and discounts for life and health insurance through Mercer Consumer, a service of Mercer Health & Benefits Administration LLC, and well-known providers. This means you can secure essential protection worry-free. INVITATIONS TO ALUMNI ACTIVITIES Receive invitations to special Alumni Association events like Homecoming, Night of the Pachyderm Baseball Tailgate, Dinner with 12 Titans, and regional outings. FREE PARKING Come back to campus to attend an event, use the library, or request your transcripts. Members receive three on-campus parking vouchers through the ParkMobile app, each redeemable for one parking session. Contact alumnimembership@fullerton.edu to receive yours! INTRAMURAL SPORTS Participate in Titan Recreation Intramural Sports . Leagues and tournaments are available in a wide variety of indoor and outdoor sports year-round. Only Alumni Association members, who have purchased an Alumni Membership with the Student Recreation Center (SRC), may register for a team. TITANS ATHLETICS Take advantage of general admission to buy one, get one free ticket for regular-season home games. Must show your Alumni Association membership card and photo I.D. at the Titans Athletic Box Office on game day to purchase your tickets, maximum of 8 tickets. Offer good for general admission tickets only. Not valid for Homecoming and the Judi Garman Classic Tournament . EXTENSION AND INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS Receive a $50 discount on one non-credit continuing education course offered through Extension and International Programs . This offer applies to most non-credit courses and to those with a fee of $125 or more; one course per membership. CENTER FOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP Save 15% on consulting services from the College of Business and Economics Center for Entrepreneurship . A student team will provide detailed analysis of your business, thorough research and a useful project report tailored to individual client needs. Request your appointment today! CSUF PERFORMING ARTS Receive the “Titan discount” rate on advance purchase tickets. Must purchase at the Clayes Performing Arts Center Box Office or over the phone. This site is maintained by CSUF Alumni. Last Published 5/10/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact alumniengagement@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.1.3 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.