Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu 2020 Volunteer Immersion Month Session Recordings Featured events from the month-long virtual celebration of Brown’s dedicated volunteer community. Breadcrumb Home Events Whether you missed a live session or just want to refer back for some key takeaways, this month’s featured events are full of valuable additions to your volunteer skillset, ways to connect in the virtual landscape, and timely updates from Brown faculty, staff, and alumni experts. See the full Volunteer Immersion Month schedule. Unwavering Commitment to Excellence: A State of the University Address and Conversation During these unprecedented times, the University continues to be steadfast in its focus on fulfilling Brown’s mission of education, scholarship, and research in the service of society. President Christina H. Paxson shares her insights and reflects on the state of Brown University, as well as her optimism for the future and priorities for the year ahead. Includes Q&A session with Provost Richard M. Locke, Dean of the College Rashid Zia ’01, and Vice President for Institutional Equity and Diversity Shontay Delalue. (Thursday, October 1, 2020) https://www.youtube.com/embed/7t80f6Fga9Q Fostering Community and Staying Connected in a Virtual World Over the last several months, we have found ourselves needing to adapt our communications in order to build community in a virtual space rather than an in-person one. Join University and volunteer leaders to learn about best practices for communications that keep your community members connected in remote times and to find out more about Brown’s digital resources. Speakers include Joukowsky Family University Librarian Joseph S. Meisel, Vice President for Communications Cass Cliatt, Brown Club of Washington, D.C Vice President Emily S. Dietsch ’06, Brown Club of Miami Secretary Kimberly Arredondo ’11, and Vice President for Alumni Relations Andy Shaindlin ’86. (Tuesday, October 6, 2020) https://www.youtube.com/embed/cBCHJKkhAY0 Brown Alumni Changemakers: Building Community Through Alumni Stories of Impact and Innovation During this time of crisis and uncertainty in the world, community connection and hope are essential for humanity’s well-being. As University volunteers, you have the power to strengthen these bonds and to spread hope by spotlighting Brown alumni changemakers: those who are fulfilling Brown’s mission by doing the extraordinary to make this world a better place. Learn about this new initiative and hear from Co-Vice President of Communications for the Class of 2006 Sarah Gomel ’06, Co-President of the Brown Club of Greater San Francisco Lisa Ryers ’90 and Vice Communications Chair for the Brown Club of Washington, D.C., Sean Siperstein ’05, who have organized great programs and communications recognizing the positive impact of alumni in their communities. (Thursday, October 8, 2020) https://www.youtube.com/embed/1rsP-fTDhz8 BrownConnect Summer Institute: Supporting Students in a Remote Landscape This summer, BrownConnect launched the BrownConnect Summer Institute (BCSI) to provide students with a meaningful, immersive, and educational experience, allowing them to engage with and learn from a diverse group of Brown alumni, parents, faculty, and staff. CareerLAB Director Matt Donato, along with recent BCSI alumni and student participants, discusses the formation and success of the Summer Institute. Learn how your leadership and projects might inspire student-alumni engagement in this virtual world and beyond. (Tuesday, October 13) https://www.youtube.com/embed/yraYiPAFjDg Research Matters: How Brown Graduate Students Advance the Study of Things that Matter Research Matters is an annual event hosted by the Graduate School featuring short TED-style talks by graduate students and other scholars from the Brown community on “Why my research matters.” During this showcase moderated by Vanessa L. Ryan, co-deputy dean of the Graduate School, exceptional graduate students share the passion that inspires their research. Hear from Ph.D. students: Shekinah Fashaw, health services, “My Grandmother Prefers Her Home, But Does Her Health?” Anastasia Tsylina Williams, Slavic studies, “Language Teaching Research: Reading in Russian" Matteo Di Luca, engineering, “Shaping the Next Generation of Aerial Robots” D'Ondre Swails, Africana studies, “Racism: An American Fairy Tale” Ahona Palchoudhuri, anthropology and music, “The Everyday Life of Climate and a Musical Request for Rain” (Thursday, October 15) https://www.youtube.com/embed/G3gNWlWBQcA Networking in a Virtual World In today's world, networking is key—whether you are ready to make a career move, trying to find a mentor who shares your interests and background, or moving to a new city. Networking can be overwhelming even in the best of circumstances, and the current virtual landscape poses a new set of challenges. In this session, you'll learn tips and strategies for successfully expanding your network and leveraging your connections...even in a socially distant environment. https://www.youtube.com/embed/WTGojvzGzvQ Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search 2020 Volunteer Immersion Month Session Recordings Open details for 2020 Volunteer Immersion Month Session Recordings Bookmark this Page