Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools College Alumni Welcome College alumni and undergraduates! We hope you will explore the many ways that you can connect with the Harvard community and support Harvard’s research and teaching mission. Learn more below. Reunion Information Make a Gift Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Register Today for 2022 Reunions! Classes of 2’s and 7’s, we are delighted to welcome you back to campus for the 2022 Reunions this June! Registration is in full swing, and many of your classmates have already registered. We hope you, too, join us as we celebrate the resiliency and vibrancy of our community with all the well-loved traditions of this storied institution. Register Today Reunion FAQs Harvard is a lifelong journey with countless avenues to explore. Through the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA), there are so many ways for College alumni and students to connect with the Harvard community and grow networks beyond Cambridge. The HAA is the official association for the more than 400,000 Harvard alumni around the world. College alumni and students already have a membership just by attending Harvard. College alumni are invited to learn more about the ways in which the HAA in here for them. Whether you are looking to build or expand your Harvard community, reconnect with classmates, mentor students, engage in lifelong learning, or stay informed on Harvard news—the HAA is here to keep you connected to all things Harvard. Current students can explore ways to get involved and connect with Harvard's diverse alumni community. You can also volunteer with the HAA and the Harvard College Fund through the Senior Class Committee. Help support Harvard's legacy of innovative teaching, research, and discovery by volunteering with your class's fundraising committee or by making your annual gift today. Follow Harvard College Alumni on Facebook Follow Harvard College Alumni on Instagram Alumni Profiles June 1, 2022 Alumni Profiles Campus & Community Community by Design The incoming president of the Harvard Alumni Association, Allyson Mendenhall AB '90, MLA '99 is committed to creating inclusive alumni experiences. February 10, 2022 Alumni Profiles Transforming Opportunities Deacon Turner ’91 shares how his journey out of poverty to the Yard inspires him to do what he can for students like him to thrive November 29, 2021 Alumni Profiles Winning from the bench Following a childhood of frequenting Camden Yards, gymnasiums, and athletic fields, Eve Rosenbaum ’12 found herself on the bench at Harvard. And it made all the difference. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College