Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Programs & Events Featured Programs The Harvard Alumni Association hosts some if its most popular events on an annual basis. Learn more about those featured events below. View All Events Menu Main menu All Events Featured Programs Global Networking Night Welcome to Your City Commencement Harvard vs. Yale SIG Showcase Unity Webinars Online Learning Get ready to mark your calendar! Whether you’re looking for opportunities to build your Harvard network, learn something new, gather as a community, or show off your Crimson pride, the HAA has you covered. From our annual Global Networking Night and Welcome to Your City events hosted by Harvard Clubs and Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) Shared Interest Groups (SIGs), to Harvard Alumni Day and the Game, there’s no shortage of opportunities to engage with your worldwide Harvard community throughout the year. This page features popular alumni events that happen annually and are sponsored by Harvard University, the HAA, Harvard Clubs, or HAA SIGs. Harvard Clubs and HAA SIGs are alumni-governed and independently financed. Check out some of the featured events and programs we’re all looking forward to. HARVARD ALUMNI ASSOCIATION PRESENTS: Harvard Alumni Day Harvard alumni are invited to join the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) on Friday, June 3, 2022, for Harvard Alumni Day, a University-wide, global event honoring alumni impact, citizenship, and community. This celebration will be held on Harvard’s campus and simultaneously live streamed for those who cannot attend in person. Learn More Register Now Welcome to Your City Welcome to Your City took place on Thursday, October 21, 2021. Check back in the fall of 2022 to explore and expand your Harvard community and to welcome members of the Class of 2021 to their new cities! View the 2021 Event Directory The Game Each year, Harvard and Yale vie for bragging rights in a football rivalry dating back to 1875. As the second-oldest rivalry in college football, the Harvard-Yale game is more than just a football game. It’s The Game. View Previous Event Global Networking Night Each year, GNN allows alumni to connect with each other through location-based events in their area and through professional interest-based events. View the 2022 Directory Harvard Alumni Association Presents: Unity Weekend: Celebrating Harvard Alumni of Color Open to all in the Harvard community, Unity Weekend, a three-day virtual conference, served as a forum for diverse communities to come together for candid conversations on complex issues at the intersection of identity, inclusion, and impact. Learn More Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College