Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Alumni Association Toggle navigation Site Menu Membership Join Today Renew Your Membership Membership Overview Why Become a Member? Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks Alumni Directory My oneFSU Dashboard Students Student Alumni Association Join SAA SAA Membership Perks My oneFSU Dashboard Honors Alumni Ambassadors Award Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Legacy Scholarship Grads Made Good The Inspire Award Community Alumni Networks Alumni Career Services Events Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Alumni Travel Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Webinar Resources Virtual Alumni Resources Support Join, Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Give to the Legacy Scholarship Give to the FSU Alumni Association Give to the FSU Alumni Association Endowment Give to FSU Academic Programs Purchase a Westcott Plaza Brick Support the Alumni Ambassadors Fund About About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Annual Highlights Alumni Center & Events Employment Frequently Asked Questions Financial Information Map and Directions Sponsorship Opportunities FSU Alumni Center Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast is a weekly show dedicated to reconnecting alumni with the FSU campus through news, opportunities to get involved, features on alumni successes, and more. New episodes are released every other Tuesday. Listen to the Episodes Sponsorship Opportunities Who do you want to hear from on the podcast? Click here to let us know! Season Two: Ep. 209 | Today on Echoes, we welcome Shannon Estenoz (B.S. '94). Shannon is a fifth-generation native of Key West, Florida, and holds degrees in International Affairs and Civil Engineering from Florida State University. She has held roles with the World Wildlife Fund and National Parks Conservation Association, and is currently the Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife Parks for the U.S. Department of the Interior. Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast is a weekly show dedicated to reconnecting alumni with the FSU campus through news, opportunities to get involved, features on alumni successes, and more. New episodes are released every other Tuesday. Ep. 208 | On today's episode, we meet with Jorge Zamanillo. With a Bachelor's in Anthropology from Florida State University and a Master's in Museum Studies from the University of Leicester in the United Kingdom, Jorge has quickly risen to prominence in his field of study. Tune in to hear about Jorge's journey from FSU college student to Founding Director of Washington, DC's New Smithsonian Museum, The National Museum of the American Latino. Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast is a weekly show dedicated to reconnecting alumni with the FSU campus through news, opportunities to get involved, features on alumni successes, and more. New episodes are released every other Tuesday. Ep. 207 | On today's episode, we meet with JD Doughney. With a Bachelor's in Political Science and a Master's in Integrated Marketing Communication, JD uses his education as a foundation for his work as the Global Director at Meta. New episodes are released every other Tuesday. Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast is a weekly show dedicated to reconnecting alumni with the FSU campus through news, opportunities to get involved, features on alumni successes, and more. New episodes are released every other Tuesday. Ep. 206 | On today's episode, we meet with Jimmy Patronis, Florida's Chief Financial Officer. Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast is a weekly show dedicated to reconnecting alumni with the FSU campus through news, opportunities to get involved, features on alumni successes, and more. New episodes are released every other Tuesday. Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast is a weekly show dedicated to reconnecting alumni with the FSU campus through news, opportunities to get involved, features on alumni successes, and more. New episodes are released every other Tuesday. Ep. 205 | Today's weather forecast shows nothing but clear skies and sunshine because Janice Huff (B.S. '82) is this week's guest. On today's episode, Janice shares how her time at Florida State led her to become one of the nation's most recognized and trusted weather forecasters. Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast is a weekly show dedicated to reconnecting alumni with the FSU campus through news, opportunities to get involved, features on alumni successes, and more. New episodes are released every other Tuesday. Ep. 204 | Chad Matthews (B.S. '98, M.S. '03) | The 75th Anniversary of the Florida State University Flying High Circus is right around the corner and we wanted the inside scoop on this amazing FSU tradition. On today's episode, we sit down with Chad Matthews (B.S. '98, M.S. '03), Director of the Florida State University Circus. Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast is a weekly show dedicated to reconnecting alumni with the FSU campus through news, opportunities to get involved, features on alumni successes, and more. New episodes are released every other Tuesday. Ep. 203 | John Pak | This episode, we meet with John Pak, student athlete turned 2021 First-Team All-American Golfer. This episode includes bonus content and an exclusive look at John's tips, trick and favorites on the course. Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast is a weekly show dedicated to reconnecting alumni with the FSU campus through news, opportunities to get involved, features on alumni successes, and more. New episodes are released every other Tuesday. Ep. 202 | Ben Pautsch (B.S. '91) | This episode, we meet with Ben Pautsch (B.S. '91), Owner of Lucky Goat Coffee. After 15 years’ experience in coffee distribution, this FSU alumni moved back to the Capital City to start what would grow into the Tallahassee staple we know today. Since 2010, it’s been his job and his hobby: seeing people learn and grow within the dynamic coffee industry. Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast is a weekly show dedicated to reconnecting alumni with the FSU campus through news, opportunities to get involved, features on alumni successes, and more. New episodes are released every other Tuesday. Ep. 201 | Brooke Wyckoff (B.S. '01) | In our first episode of Season Two, we meet with Brooke Wyckoff (B.S. '01), Associate Head Coach of Florida State University's Women's Basketball team. Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast is a weekly show dedicated to reconnecting alumni with the FSU campus through news, opportunities to get involved, features on alumni successes, and more. New episodes are released every other Tuesday. Past Seasons: Season 1 Ep. 110 | Jacey Hanley | Today, you'll hear our interview with Jacey Hanley, Student Alumni Association President, and for our sounds of campus segment, we recall excerpts from President John Thrasher's Class of 2021 Commencement address during the weekend of April 17th. Ep. 109 | Dave Irvin | Today, you'll hear our interview with Dave Irvin, AVP of facilities at FSU. When you think about how much campus may have changed each time you come back to visit, you may not realize that these changes all fall under the university's master facilities plan, which Dave Irvin oversees. You'll hear a progress update on the Student Union, as well as a sneak peek into the process of campus growth. For our sounds of campus segment, we'll be right in the middle of Homecoming Live, held Friday night at Doak Campbell Stadium. Ep. 108 | Joe O'Shea (B.A. '08) | FSU is a top 20 university in the US, and student retention and graduation rates are among the highest in the nation. Today, we talk with Joe O'Shea (B.A. '08), Dean of Undergraduate Studies and FSU Rhodes Scholar, to learn about the programs, relationships, and teams that bring that vision of student success to life. We'll also hear from President Thrasher following FSU Day at the Capitol on March 31, and jog through the FSU campus on the Legacy Walk. Ep. 107 | Lisa Jackson (B.S. '13, M.S. '15) | For some FSU students, starting college looks a little different - they arrive sometimes with no more belongings than what can fit in a garbage bag. Our guest this week, Lisa Jackson (B.S. '14, M.S. '15), manages the CARE and Unconquered Scholars programs to support these students, who often come from the foster care system, homelessness, or relative care, through academic, financial, and social support services. In our interview, you'll see how you can support CARE and Unconquered Scholars, too. Also on today’s show, we preview upcoming Spring Homecoming activities, hear an update from FSU news on a new partnership for the FSU Mag Lab, and preview the upcoming TEDxFSU event on April 7. Ep. 106 | Mark Zeigler (M.S. '89) | We spend some quality time with professor Mark Zeigler (M.S. '89) of the FSU College of Communication & Information. A fixture at FSU for decades of Seminole alumni, Professor Zeigler's research focuses on communication and grief counseling, and students know him best for his approach to teaching and passion for FSU athletics. Also on today’s show, we share information on upcoming Spring Homecoming activities, hear an update from FSU news on Match Day for the College of Medicine, and show you a simple way to support students in need. Ep. 105 | 2021 Inspire Award Honorees | We present an excerpt from the 5th Annual Inspire Awards for FSU Women of Distinction, held March 11, 2021. This year, four alumnae were recognized for breaking the glass ceiling in their professions, and shared their experiences in a panel discussion moderated by FSU Student Alumni Association president Jacey Hanley. Also on today’s show, we share information on Spring 2021 Homecoming, hear an update on successes of the FSU Dance Marathon and Great Give and take a walk by the construction of the new student union. Ep. 104 | Clay Ingram (B.S. '00) | We reconnect with Clay Ingram (B.S. '00), chief legislative affairs officer for Florida State University, to discuss his role in the state legislature, his experience in government and his memories as a teammate with host Keith Cottrell on the 1999 NCAA Division I Football National Championship team. Also on the show, we share information on the fifth presentation of the Inspire Awards, hear an update from FSU news and take a seat on the floor to listen to the Seminoles men’s basketball team warm up for their game this past weekend. Ep. 103 | Andy Jhanji | We sit down with Andy Jhanji, interim vice president of advancement and executive vice president of the FSU Foundation.Also in this episode: upcoming events, a walk by batting practice at the baseball and softball practice facilities and updates on FSU's efforts to provide COVID-19 vaccinations. Ep. 102 | Dan Berger (B.S. '89) | We meet with Dan Berger (B.S. '89), chair of the FSU Alumni Association National Board of Directors and a national leadership author and speaker. Ep. 101 | Eva Killings | In our first episode, we meet with Eva Killings, 45-year employee of Seminole Dining and a friend to thousands of alumni. OFFICIAL PARTNERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Their generous support allows the FSU Alumni Association to provide programs, services and events to you. MEMBERS Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Member Perks Reward Zone Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks STUDENTS Student Alumni Association Join SAA Benefits of SAA Membership Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks HONORS Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award COMMUNITY Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Events Football HQ Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Travel Programs ABOUT US About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Sponsorship Opportunities ALUMNI CENTER Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions FSU Alumni Association 1030 W. Tennessee St. Tallahassee, FL 32304 Email Us (850) 644-2761 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright Close