Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Athletics Annual Fund How to make an immediate impact for Brown’s student-athletes. Breadcrumb Home Giving Brown Annual Fund Sub Navigation In This Section The Brown Fund Brown Medical Annual Fund School of Engineering Annual Fund School of Public Health Annual Fund Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund BrownConnect Fund IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Campus Sustainability Fund Athletics Annual Fund Reunion & Class Giving Ever True Sustainers Volunteer Appreciation Month Phone Wallpapers Brown student-athletes stand out for their steadfast commitment to becoming leaders and mentors. It is critical that every player and every team have access to the tools necessary to help our student-athletes perform at the highest level in competition, the classroom, and the community. Immediate-use funds are essential to strengthening Brown's success both in the Ivy League and on a national level. Comprised of our varsity team annual funds* and the Athletic Director's Excellence Fund, the Brown University Sports Foundation Athletics Annual Fund provides the bedrock for fostering an enriching experience for all of our Brown student-athletes. Give to the Athletics Annual Fund Support Brown student-athletics by giving today. MAKE A GIFT The Athletics Annual Fund supports: Travel opportunities for our teams to compete away from College Hill. Equipment and technology to enhance practice and game conditions. Recruiting funds for coaches to scout and attract well-rounded future Bears. Resources for team initiatives both on and off-the-field, enhancing the student-athlete experience. Recognizing your support Gifts to the Athletics Annual Fund are also included in the Brown Annual Fund. Athletics Annual Fund donors are eligible for membership in the Brown Annual Fund’s recognition societies: the Carrie Tower Society (recognizing leadership-level giving) and the 1764 Society (recognizing at least three consecutive years of giving). Donors to the Athletics Annual Fund are also eligible to become part of our Loyal Bears program, which recognizes alumni, parents, and friends who have given any amount to any area of Brown Athletics through the Sports Foundation for two or more consecutive fiscal years. *The BUSF Athletics Annual Fund consists of the Athletic Director's Excellence Fund and designations for each Brown varsity sport. Varsity teams that are a part of the Athletics Annual Fund have sport-specific fundraising goals to support program operations. Want to learn more about the Athletics Annual Fund? Contact us at sports_foundation@brown.edu. Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Athletics Annual Fund Open details for Athletics Annual Fund Bookmark this Page