Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Annual Giving Image Unrestricted gifts from undergraduate and graduate alumni, parents, and friends help provide the “margin of excellence” that makes a Princeton education second to none. Annual Giving sustains and enhances the University’s distinctive academic programs and brings together Princetonians of all generations. Give Now WATCH: Imagining livable futures Allison Carruth maps imaginative new blueprints for the future of the planet Allison Carruth arrived at Princeton following a cross-country drive to launch the Environmental Art + Media Lab, an innovative interdisciplinary center that conducts applied research and develops collaborative projects at the nexus of imagination and science. Annual Giving Impact Report 2020-21 The impact of Annual Giving is visible everywhere at Princeton, and last year’s campaign helped provide the “margin of excellence” that makes transformative student experiences possible. Read the 2020-21 Report Forward Together with Annual Giving Each of us has our own Princeton story, and there are many inspiring reasons for supporting Princeton through Annual Giving. Whether you give because you are funding your experience forward, want to support financial aid and faculty recruitment, know that each generation stands on the shoulders of the one before ... or because of a reason completely unique to you ... through Annual Giving, all Princetonians move Forward Together. Each of us has our own Princeton story, and there are many inspiring reasons for supporting Princeton through Annual Giving. Whether you give because you are funding your experience forward, want to support financial aid and faculty recruitment, know that each generation stands on the shoulders of the one before ... or because of a reason completely unique to you ... through Annual Giving, all Princetonians move Forward Together. Because Princeton remains part of my life. A path to service Because Princeton was there for me. Because this is home. Princeton bonds last a lifetime. Princeton transforms lives. Princeton opens doors to opportunity. For future generations So others have their own Princeton experience. In the spirit of service It changed my life. Because others made it possible for me. So I can pay it forward. Because I am grateful. For future leaders For transformative experiences In Tiger Spirit Toward opportunity and success To say thank you Because it made me who I am. It’s the secret sauce of Annual Giving: the dedication and commitment of Princeton alumni volunteers. They rally classmates and keep the Tiger spirit burning bright. Meet Your AG Chairs Annual Giving Annual Giving applauds volunteer achievements Annual Giving honored volunteer leaders for their achievements in the 2020-21 campaign during a series of online celebrations in February. Watch the Video Annual Giving Stories Explore stories and videos about the impact of your Annual Giving support, on campus and beyond. The spirit of service drives Annual Giving campaign Helm Award-winner Laurence Latimer *01 raises his hand for Annual Giving Through Annual Giving, alumni move forward together to build a stronger Princeton Princeton bonfire ‘reignites’ spirit of campus and community Thanks to Annual Giving, tradition meets today in iconic classroom Read More Annual Giving Stories Over nearly three centuries, Princeton alumni have helped build the future and open the gates for the next generation of leaders. New challenges await us, and the path to a brighter tomorrow points forward together. Make A Gift Make a Gift Annual Giving Volunteer Resources View Volunteer Resources Annual Giving Legacy Annual Giving Legacy Program Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram