Skip to main content View sitemap About Contact Update Your Information Give Alumni Resources Search form Search searchSearch Engage 50th Anniversary Celebrations Coeducation at 50 50 for 50 Storytelling Project Dartmouth on Location Events Future of Work Alumni Travel Homecoming Reunions Dartmouth 250 Connect Career Resources Contact Alumni Relations Find Alumni Find a Club Find a Group Find Your Class Recent Graduates Students Volunteer Resources Learn Alumni News Alumni Travel Dartmouth on Location Dartmouth on Location: Kids DartmouthX Faculty Presentations Career Hubs Good Reads TED Talks Podcasts Serve Admissions Ambassadors Alumni Council Association of Alumni Dartmouth Serves Recognition Volunteer Resources You are here Home About Header Image Our Mission Dartmouth Alumni Relations provides meaningful engagement opportunities for all Dartmouth Alumni to be involved with the institution and connected to each other. About Dartmouth Alumni Dartmouth graduates maintain an especially robust relationship with their alma mater. Alumni devote an extraordinary amount of time and talent to the institution, and Dartmouth’s relationship with its alumni is highly regarded in the world of higher education. Today, nearly 250 years after the founding of Dartmouth, alumni remain as engaged and connected to the College as ever. More than 4,000 alumni come “home” for Reunions every June, and thousands return to share in the warmth and camaraderie of Dartmouth Night and Homecoming, held every fall since 1895. Across the globe, alumni also network and maintain their connections with the College through their classes—73 of them—and through nearly 100 geographical clubs and affiliated and shared interest groups. Volunteer leaders serve an especially important role at Dartmouth through organizations such as the Alumni Council and the Association of Alumni. Alumni interview prospective students; help solicit gifts for the Dartmouth College Fund; provide career advice and mentor young professionals; and cheer on the Big Green athletic teams. Many alumni also take advantage of our global educational programming through Dartmouth on Location and the Dartmouth Alumni Travel program. We hope this website provides a glimpse of the many ways you can stay engaged with Dartmouth. If your question isn’t answered here, please contact our staff. Alumni by the Numbers Dartmouth Alumni: 83,787 Undergraduate: 62,694 Tuck School of Business: 10,718 The Frank J. Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies: 7,228 Geisel School of Medicine: 6,024 Thayer School of Engineering: 4,673 Note: Some alumni have dual degrees, i.e. an undergraduate and a Tuck degree, so the number of degrees from each institution does not equal the total number. These numbers were modified on October 2017. Dartmouth at a glance Dartmouth College News Honoring Their Service and Sacrifice Geisel School of Medicine Celebrates the Class of 2022 John Cho '22 Explores Identity in Politics Dartmouth Aires Celebrate 75th Anniversary Kudos: Mock Trial Society Makes the Case View all Dartmouth College News Socialize Dartmouth Alumni Engage Connect Learn Serve About Contact Update Your Information Give Alumni Resources Facebook Flickr Instagram Linkedin Big Green Social Twitter Alumni Directory Career Network Dartmouth College Geisel Alumni Guarini Alumni Thayer Alumni Tuck Alumni Dartmouth College Giving to Dartmouth Advancement Division Contact Us Dartmouth Compliance and ethics hotline © Copyright 2018 Trustees of Dartmouth College. All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy