Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Clemson Corps You are here: Home1 / Get Involved2 / Affinity Groups3 / Clemson Corps Perpetuating Clemson University’s ROTC Programs and Rich Military Heritage Since Clemson began classes in 1893, the value of a solid military force has been a major part of its education. It has been said that Clemson supplied more army officers for World War II than any other institution except West Point and Texas A & M. Clemson once had the largest infantry ROTC unit in the country. When we visit the Clemson Military Heritage Plaza, we see the array of ribbons and honors, the footprints of brave service men, and the inscriptions from a variety of classes. When we read the Clemson Scroll of Honor, we see listed the Clemson alumni who have given their lives in service to their country from the Spanish American War through current operations. All of this gives us a glimpse of the University’s tradition of service. A Long Standing Tradition Today, Clemson Army and Air Force ROTC cadets carry on the rich tradition of the historic Corps of Cadets. These talented young men and women will serve our great nation in every corner of the globe as the future leaders of our Armed Forces. Through their patriotic duty, the distinguished and selfless service of the Clemson Corps of Cadets will be kept alive.This practice , however may not always be the case. For example, post Gulf War ROTC enrollment declined dramatically. Programs in competition with our ROTC departments are offering significant financial incentives to attract scholarship cadets. The Clemson Alumni Association has responded to the challenge with the formation of THE CLEMSON CORPS. The Clemson Corps is a constituency group dedicated to continuing Clemson’s military heritage and developing other opportunities to commemorate the military history of Clemson University. In addition, it aims to support Clemson University’s Army and Air Force ROTC programs through annual scholarship support and endowment. We can think of no better calling than to bring to Clemson outstanding young men and women who will be the military leaders of tomorrow. Support Clemson Through a Gift to The Clemson Corps Today, we support Clemson’s military legacy by helping to ensure that resources will forever be available to assist in the education of our country’s future military leaders and maintain Clemson’s military traditions. Your support is critical. Clemson’s military legacy is a key part of the University’s identity, and your gift will have a significant impact on the lives of many cadets. Make Your Gift Now Join us on Facebook. Affinity Groups Chinese Alumni Council Clemson Black Alumni Council Clemson Corps Construction Science Management Hispanic and Latinx Alumni Council International Clemson Alumni Representatives MBA Alumni Society Student Alumni Association Young Alumni Council Clemson Clubs Volunteer Opportunities Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info