Skip to main content View sitemap About Contact Update Your Information Give Alumni Resources Search form Search searchSearch Engage 50th Anniversary Celebrations Coeducation at 50 50 for 50 Storytelling Project Dartmouth on Location Events Future of Work Alumni Travel Homecoming Reunions Dartmouth 250 Connect Career Resources Contact Alumni Relations Find Alumni Find a Club Find a Group Find Your Class Recent Graduates Students Volunteer Resources Learn Alumni News Alumni Travel Dartmouth on Location Dartmouth on Location: Kids DartmouthX Faculty Presentations Career Hubs Good Reads TED Talks Podcasts Serve Admissions Ambassadors Alumni Council Association of Alumni Dartmouth Serves Recognition Volunteer Resources You are here Home Connect Header Image Lone Pines are Never Lonely Dartmouth alumni are one of the College's greatest strengths. Wherever you live, whatever stage you are at in life, and however long it's been since you visited Hanover, the Dartmouth alumni network is here for you. Connect to 79,500 Dartmouth Alumni Find alumni through the Alumni Directory or tap into the strength of the Dartmouth Career Network. Connect with Your Class We know that Class bonds are strong at Dartmouth. There are many ways to keep in touch with your classmates, or volunteer as part of your class's leadership team. Connect with Alumni Near You Dartmouth alumni live 'round the girdled earth and connect with one another through 80 regionally based clubs. Connect with Alumni Like You Through our Affiliated Groups, Dartmouth supports personal-identity groups based on ethnicity and sexual orientation. Connect with Alumni Who Share Your Interests Come together with alumni with common interests, such as industry, profession, and military service through a Shared Interest Group. Connect with Women Through Women of Dartmouth, alumnae can connect and engage through programming and networking opportunities that are specifically geared toward women. Connect with Young Alumni If you graduated within the last decade, Young Alumni of Dartmouth Activities (YADA) will be a great step into the alumni community and a way to keep up with other young alumni. View a complete list of Alumni Clubs, Regional Communities, and Affiliated/Shared Interests Groups with contact information here. Menu Career Resources Contact Alumni Relations Find Alumni Find a Club Find a Group Find Your Class Recent Graduates Students Volunteer Resources Dartmouth College News Honoring Their Service and Sacrifice Geisel School of Medicine Celebrates the Class of 2022 John Cho '22 Explores Identity in Politics Dartmouth Aires Celebrate 75th Anniversary Kudos: Mock Trial Society Makes the Case View all Dartmouth College News Socialize Dartmouth Alumni Engage Connect Learn Serve About Contact Update Your Information Give Alumni Resources Facebook Flickr Instagram Linkedin Big Green Social Twitter Alumni Directory Career Network Dartmouth College Geisel Alumni Guarini Alumni Thayer Alumni Tuck Alumni Dartmouth College Giving to Dartmouth Advancement Division Contact Us Dartmouth Compliance and ethics hotline © Copyright 2018 Trustees of Dartmouth College. All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy