Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Alumni Association Toggle navigation Site Menu Membership Join Today Renew Your Membership Membership Overview Why Become a Member? Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks Alumni Directory My oneFSU Dashboard Students Student Alumni Association Join SAA SAA Membership Perks My oneFSU Dashboard Honors Alumni Ambassadors Award Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Legacy Scholarship Grads Made Good The Inspire Award Community Alumni Networks Alumni Career Services Events Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Alumni Travel Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Webinar Resources Virtual Alumni Resources Support Join, Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Give to the Legacy Scholarship Give to the FSU Alumni Association Give to the FSU Alumni Association Endowment Give to FSU Academic Programs Purchase a Westcott Plaza Brick Support the Alumni Ambassadors Fund About About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Annual Highlights Alumni Center & Events Employment Frequently Asked Questions Financial Information Map and Directions Sponsorship Opportunities FSU Alumni Center Travel the world with fellow alumni Travel the World with the FSU Alumni Association Explore the world with fellow Noles. The Florida State University Alumni Association invites you to experience culturally rich travel destinations hand-selected with FSU alumni and friends in mind. Our highly-respected travel partners take care of our tour planning and logistics so all you have to plan on is enjoying your trip. We have selected world-class guided tours for our travel program. Each remarkable itinerary offers an opportunity to visit iconic destinations, sample authentic cuisine and truly experience the local culture. We hope you will join us. Travel Resources Passports and Visas Google Translate Currency Converter US State Department Travel Information Travel Destinations General Young Alumni Multi-Generational Insurance COVID-19 Discover Southeast Alaska July 1 — July 8, 2022 Join us for a summertime expedition through some of nature’s more secluded landscapes as we discover the remote inner reaches of Alaska’s Inside Passage aboard the 76-guest Chichagof Dream. Enjoy the agility and flexibility of small-ship travel, up-close encounters with wildlife, stunning scenery, and cultural experiences. View Details South Pacific Wonders September 21 — October 5, 2022 View the wonders of the South Pacific as we see where the original colonists first settled during a city tour of Sydney! We’ll learn of Australia’s ancient traditions at the Rainforestation Nature Park and visit the Willowbank Wildlife Reserve where you'll get the chance to view New Zealand’s “Big 5” - the Kiwi, the Kea, the Tuatara, the Kaka, and the Takahe - up close and personal. Sign Up Form View Details Civil Rights—A Journey to Freedom November 5 — November 9, 2022 Join us for an intimate and essential opportunity to explore the Deep South with an informative program that highlights America’s civil rights movement in Alabama.Taking a deeper dive beyond the civil rights “highlight” reel, each day offers exclusive, authentic experiences for in-depth knowledge, engaged conversations, and deep listening. View Details Iceland’s Magical Northern Lights November 1 — November 7, 2022 With your fellow Noles, search for nature's dazzling display on a northern lights cruise in Reykjavík. Then venture out into the countryside outside of Vík for three nights in search of more aurora borealis sightings and get to see Jökulsárlón Glacial Lagoon, filled with floating icebergs. Sign Up Form View Details Ciao Italy September 3 - 11, 2022 Explore Florence, birthplace of the Renaissance and a city packed with extraordinary art and architecture. Then discover the Italian Riviera with its breathtaking coastal scenery and hike along paths through charming fishing villages of Cinque Terre, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Finally, dip into the magic of Italy’s Tuscan countryside with its rolling hills of olive groves and vineyards crowned by castles and ancient abbeys. Enjoy la dolce vita! View Details New Year’s Eve in Berlin December 28, 2022 - January 2, 2023 Berlin, capital of Germany and urban hub since the 13th-century, has emerged as a hip, youthful, and energetic metropolis. It’s a place with a rich and tumultuous history that evolved into the most vibrant and exciting city in Europe. So it shouldn’t come as a surprise that it’s also one of the best places to spend New Year’s Eve. But don’t take our word for it – join us and find out yourself! View Details Enchanted - A Fairytale Journey July 29 - August 6, 2022 Who didn't go to sleep dreaming about fearless fairytale characters, setting out on magical adventures in search of true love, to rescue a princess or to slay a dragon? The stories of the Grimm Brothers, Hans Christian Andersen and Gabrielle-Suzanne Barbot de Villeneuve inspired Disney to create Sleeping Beauty, the Little Mermaid and Beauty and the Beast - just to name a few – and real locations around Europe inspired the settings for those films. Let us take you on a fairy-tale journey that visits those places and landscapes. A journey that reveals the history of Neuschwanstein and Chillon Castles, tells the stories of the charming town of Colmar, discovers the romantic Loire Valley and explores Paris, the city of lights. You don’t need a magic wand to be enchanted! View Details Protect Your Trip: Consider Travel Insurance Learn More and Enroll Online: FSU.MeyerAndAssoc.com/travel-insurance *If not traveling with the Association, purchase must be made within 15 or 21 days of the date of trip deposit Key Features: Trip cancellations or interruptions Trip delays or missed connections Medical expenses, including emergency medical evacuation Delayed, lost, or stolen baggage Accidental death and dismemberment Cancel for work reasons Cancel or interrupt for any reason Preexisting condition waiver Additional options and upgrades are available Available to all travelers, alumni and non-alumni Contact: Meyer and Associates 866.679.7836 • 973.635.0567 Hello@MeyerAndAssoc.com Monday–Friday 8:30AM to 6:00PM ET Have questions about how our travel partners are handling travel during the COVID-19 pandemic? Just click the link below for each company to be directed to their policies. Orbridge 866.639.0079 orbridge.com View Details Collette Travel 888.581.8942 gocollette.com View Details AESU 800.638.7640 aesu.com View Details Have any questions? Contact us at 850.644.2761 or travel@alumni.fsu.edu. Brooke Robinson Assistant Director of Membership & Marketing OFFICIAL PARTNERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Their generous support allows the FSU Alumni Association to provide programs, services and events to you. MEMBERS Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Member Perks Reward Zone Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks STUDENTS Student Alumni Association Join SAA Benefits of SAA Membership Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks HONORS Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award COMMUNITY Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Events Football HQ Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Travel Programs ABOUT US About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Sponsorship Opportunities ALUMNI CENTER Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions FSU Alumni Association 1030 W. Tennessee St. Tallahassee, FL 32304 Email Us (850) 644-2761 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright Close