Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Clemson Alumni Virtual Engagement Opportunities You are here: Home1 / Events2 / Clemson Alumni Virtual Engagement Opportunities Now more than ever, it is important that the Clemson Family stay connected as a community. Though we are not able to gather in person, we recognize how powerful it can be for us to come together virtually to support and learn from each other. Here are some opportunities for you to engage with the Clemson Family: Upcoming Online Events #SolidOrangeWFHFriday Friday ⎮ All day Join the Clemson Family on Fridays as we wear our Clemson Orange and share photos on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter using the hashtag #SolidOrangeWFHFriday. Be sure to tag the Clemson Alumni Association when posting photos of you working from home. Online Mentorship Opportunities Make a difference in the life of another Tiger through TigerLink, a mentorship program designed to connect Tigers for a successful future. Mentor a current student, other alums or be mentored yourself and take the next move to advance your career. Learn more at https://tigerlink.clemson.edu/. Online Job Search Clemson University alumni who have been out of school 1-year or longer have access to an array of career resources through the Clemson Alumni Association. We begin working with you 1-year post-graduation and we continue—indefinitely. We offer training via phone and in-person consults on the tools and resources we provide for you at no charge, and we host multi-school alumni career fairs. Access to Millions of Jobs; NACELINK Network, CareerShift, Alumni CareerLink (Job Board) Phone and In-person Consults (as time permits) Multi-School Alumni Career Fairs Resume Resources (resume critiques when time permits)Register Now for Clemson Alumni Career Services Fitness and Wellness with Clemson Campus Rec Daily ⎮ Times vary for virtual classes Clemson Campus Rec is hosting a daily Fitness and Wellness workout routine as well as the opportunity to participate in live, virtual classes. Check out their daily opportunities at https://www.facebook.com/ClemsonCampusRec/. Be on the Lookout – More to Come Clemson Alumni Round Tables Join Clemson Alumni volunteers as they share the benefits of joining a Clemson Club, Young Alumni Group or Affinity Group and why it is important to volunteer for leadership roles. Clemson Family Read Aloud Various members of the Clemson Family will be offering read-along videos of some of your favorite children’s books to share with Tiger Cubs. Details to come. Creative Cooking Clemson Alumni will offer cooking tips and ideas for creative meal planning. Tours and Talks Join Clemson Alumni for a behind-the-scenes look at some of Clemson’s newest facilities. Greetings from the College Join Clemson Alumni for a one-on-one discussion with representatives of Clemson’s colleges to find out what they are doing during this time to keep students engaged and what they see ahead for the future of the college. LIVE NOW: Virtual Prowl & Growl Daily ⎮ All day Join the Clemson Alumni Association, the Clemson Forever Fund Office and IPTAY for a Virtual Prowl & Growl. Although we were not able to host the 2020 tour in-person, we are excited to bring the athletics update to you in your home! Watch now! Salute to Essential Workers Daily ⎮ All day Clemson alumni Healthcare and Essential workers around the world are encouraged to send us photos of themselves working the front lines. If you are an essential worker or know someone who is, ask them to share their story with us here. Additional Online Resources Clemson Zoom Background Photos Download your favorite Clemson campus photo and share your Clemson spirit on your Zoom calls. Click here to download. Family Activities Follow Clemson Alumni on social media to participate in various family activities. Facebook ⎮ Instagram ⎮ Twitter Do you have a suggestion for a virtual engagement opportunity? Follow us on our social media accounts to access all of our virtual content daily. Previous Virtual Content Facebook Live Q&A with Kevin Johnson ’01 Previously Aired on March 26, 2020 Are you a fan of the Netflix series Ozark? Clemson Alumni hosted a Facebook Live Q&A with Clemson alumnus & Ozark actor Kevin Johnson ’07 (Sam Dermody). Click here to watch his Q&A session offering a sneak peek into Season 3 & Kevin’s Clemson experience. Click here to watch now. Facebook Live Q&A with Principal Brad Moore ’01 Tuesday, March 31 ⎮ 6:00pm EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association on our Facebook page for a Live Q&A with Powdersville Elementary School Principal and alumnus, Brad Moore ’01. Mr. Moore will provide insight into balancing work like and homeschool life along with resources that can help your family navigate this new lifestyle. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Dr. Milt Lowder ’94 Thursday, April 2 ⎮ 6:00pm EST Questions on Quarantine: Managing your Mindset. Join the Clemson Alumni Association and Psychologist, Dr. Milt Lowder, as he discusses the reality of the impact on mental health created by the uncertainties of a pandemic. He will discuss ways to cope with anxiety, depression, panic, to name just a few. Dr. Lowder will discuss activities that will positively impact a person’s mental health during the COVID-19 pandemic as well as with other life events that can create these same types of issues. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Tony Villani ’96 Tuesday, April 7 ⎮ Noon EST Physical Fitness in a Quarantine World Join the Clemson Alumni Association and fitness instructor, Tony Villani, as he shares his journey in the fitness world as the trainer for various professional athletes preparing for the NFL combine, including Clemson athletes. He will discuss ways to put together personal training regiments without the need for gym equipment and how to stay fit while working from home. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Will Henderson Tuesday, April 14 ⎮ Noon EST Social Media’s Place in a Pandemic World and Beyond Join the Clemson Alumni Association and Clemson University’s Associate Director of the Social Media Listening Center, Will Henderson, as he shares how social media is being used during this time, evaluating the purpose that social media has and how it should be used. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Tim Bourret Thursday, April 16 ⎮ 6:00 pm EST Clemson Highlights from a Hall of Famer Join the Clemson Alumni Association and Retired Clemson Athletic’s Sports and Information Director, Tim Bourret, also known as “Clemson Google,” as he shares some Clemson Athletics stats and history. Join us on Facebook for this event. Storytime Read Aloud with Destiny Thomas Wednesday, April 22 ⎮ 7:30pm EST Join Clemson Women’s Basketball Player, Destiny Thomas, for a Read Aloud Storytime! With the permission of Random House Books for Young Readers and with approval by Clemson Compliance, the Clemson Alumni Association is excited to offer a read slound storytime for families to enjoy in the evening before bedtime. Join Destiny as she reads “Oh, the Places You’ll Go” by Dr. Seuss. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Bob Polomski Thursday, April 23 ⎮ 6:00 pm EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association and Clemson Extension Associate, Bob Polomski, discussing gardening tips and techniques to plant the perfect summer garden! Join us on Facebook for this event. Dancing with DJ Sha on Facebook Live! Friday, April 24 ⎮ 9:00pm EST Join Clemson’s very own DJ Sha for a Virtual Dance Party You have seen him during football games in the stadium, in Littlejohn for basketball games and at our post-season events! Now you can enjoy DJ Sha in your own living room. Join the Clemson Alumni Association and DJ Sha for this family-friendly dance session via Facebook Live. During the session, he will be taking songs requests and offering “Party Wit DJ Sha” tshirt giveaways! Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Dr. Ted Swann ’97 Tuesday, April 28 ⎮ Noon EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association on our Facebook page for a Live Q&A with Dr. Ted Swann ’97 as he discusses the Coronavirus Unfiltered – thoughts from an independent physician – The Good, The Bad and The Uncertain. Join us on Facebook for this event. Storytime Read Aloud with Carson Spiers Wednesday, April 29 ⎮ 7:30pm EST Join Clemson Baseball player, Carson Spiers, for a Read Aloud Storytime! With the permission of Viking Books for Young Readers and with approval by Clemson Compliance, the Clemson Alumni Association is excited to offer a read aloud storytime for families to enjoy in the evening before bedtime. Join Carson as he reads “The Story of Ferdinand” by Munro Leaf. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with VP Brian O’Rourke Tuesday, May 5 ⎮ Noon, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association and Clemson University’s Vice President of Development and Alumni Relations, Brian O’Rourke ’83, M’85, as he shares the importance of #GivingTuesday and how it will impact Clemson students. Join us on Facebook for this event. Storytime Read Aloud with Rebekah Smith Wednesday, May 6 ⎮ 7:30 pm EST Join Rebekah Smith of Clemson Women’s Track & Field for Read Aloud Storytime! With the permission of Harper Collins and with approval by Clemson Compliance, the Clemson Alumni Association is excited to offer a read-aloud storytime for families to enjoy in the evening before bedtime. Join Rebekah as she reads “Where the Wild Things Are” by Maurice Sendak. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Professor Scott Baier Thursday, May 7 ⎮ 6:00 pm EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association on our Facebook page for a Live Q&A with Professor Scott Baier as he discusses the economic impacts of Coronavirus and where we go from here. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with NASCAR’s Alex Weaver ’16 Thursday, May 14 ⎮ 6:00 pm EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association and NASCAR Reporter, Alex Weaver ’16, discussing the return of sports after the COVID-19 quarantine. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Jonathan Gundana ’21 Tuesday, May 19 ⎮ Noon, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association as we host a Facebook Live Q&A session with Clemson Undergraduate Student Government President, Jonathan Gundana ’21, as he shares his personal Clemson student Journey and how students are dealing with the current pandemic. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Daniel Rodriguez ’14 Thursday, May 21 ⎮ 6:00 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association as we host a Facebook Live Q&A session with Army Veteran, Purple Heart Recipient, Clemson football alumnus and author, Daniel Rodriguez ’14, as he shares his personal Clemson Journey and what he has accomplished since graduation. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live End of the School Year Dance Party with DJ Sha Friday, May 22 ⎮ 8:00 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association and DJ Sha as we celebrate the end of the school year with a Clemson Family Dance Party! The party starts at 8:00 pm EST and will include trivia, t0shirt giveaways and a few special guests will be able to feature their own dance moves live for the Clemson Family to enjoy. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Clemson Young Alumni Council Tuesday, May 26 ⎮ Noon, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association and Clemson Young Alumni Council’s current board president, Katie Turner ’11, president-elect J.K. McKenzie ’11 and the Clemson Alumni Association’s Engagement Director Aly Friend for a discussion about the future of Clemson Young Alumni Council and how to get involved. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Ray Ray McElrathbey Thursday, May 28 ⎮ 6:00 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association and Ray Ray McElrathbey as he walks us through his journey of becoming a Clemson student and football player and soon after facing the decision of adopting his younger brother. Ray Ray will share with us how his life was changed and how it became the storyline for a Disney movie. Join us on Facebook for this event. A Clemson Family Online Interactive Painting Class Tuesday, June 2 ⎮ 6:00 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association and Uptown Art Clemson for a virtual instructional painting class via Zoom. Paint the Eye of the Tiger why enjoying the company of other members of the Clemson Family. You can choose to purchase your own art supplies or register to pick up a pre-packaged kit at Uptown Art in Clemson. You will be sent the Zoom link for the class right before the class time. You must register to attend the class. This is a paid event. Purchased Kit includes: paint, brushes, a PRE SKETCHED 12×21″ canvas, and a pallet – ($28) Click to Register If you purchase your own supplies you’ll need: 12×24 canvas, paints and brushes, cup of water and paper towel. (Paint colors: Red, White, Blue, Orange, Yellow and Black) – ($18) Click to Register Facebook Live Q&A with VP Brian O’Rourke – Calling All Tigers Wednesday, June 3 ⎮ 9:00 am, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association and Clemson University’s Vice President of Development and Alumni Relations, Brian O’Rourke ’83, M’85, as he shares the importance of the Calling All Tigers initiative and how it will impact Clemson’s future. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Laura Jordan ’13 Thursday, June 11 ⎮ 6:00 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association and South Carolina Department of Agriculture’s Laura Jordan ’13 discussing the impact of COVID-19 on the agriculture industry. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with VP and Dean of Students, Dr. Chris Miller Thursday, June 18 ⎮ 6:00 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association and Clemson University’s Interim Vice President and Dean of Students, Dr. Chris Miller, discussing Clemson Student Affairs: Enriching the Student Experience. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Kendra Stewart-Tillman PhD Tuesday, June 23 ⎮ Noon, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association and Kendra Stewart-Tillman PhD, Executive Director of the Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center, Division of Inclusion and Equity, for a Q&A discussion on Critical Conversation: Inclusion, Equity, Equality, Clemson, and our World. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A and Special Acoustic Performance with Country Music Star, Lee Brice Friday, June 26 ⎮ 8 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association for a Facebook Live Q&A and a special acoustic performance with country music star and former Clemson football player, Lee Brice. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Brett Wright Tuesday, June 30 ⎮ Noon, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association and Brett Wright of the Tigers United University Consortium discussing the Tigers for Tigers Conservation Initiative. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A and Special Concert with Country Music Star, Cody Webb ’11 Tuesday, June 30 ⎮ 6 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association for a Facebook Live Q&A and a special concert performance with country music star and alumnus, Cody Webb ’11. Join us on Facebook for this event. Storytime Read Aloud with Elise Sum Wednesday, July 1 ⎮ 7:30 pm EST Join Elise Sum of Clemson Women’s Rowing for Read Aloud Storytime! With the permission of Random House Books for Young Readers and with approval by Clemson Compliance, the Clemson Alumni Association is excited to offer a read-aloud storytime for families to enjoy in the evening before bedtime. Join Elise as she reads “And to Think I Saw it on Mulberry Street” by Dr. Seuss. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Frank Rainwater, ‘83 Thursday, July 9 ⎮ 6:00 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association for a Q&A session with Frank Rainwater, ‘83, the Executive Director of the South Carolina Revenue and Fiscal Affairs office. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Sharon Nagy and Kyle Anderson Thursday, July 23 ⎮ 6:00 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association for a Q&A session with Sharon Nagy Associate Provost for Global Engagement and Kyle Anderson Sr. Director of Global Engagement. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Mike Money Tuesday, July 28 ⎮ Noon, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association for a Q&A session with Mike Money, Assistant AD/Marketing & Game Management, discussing the planning, execution and the finite details of a game day in Memorial Stadium. Join us on Facebook for this event. Storytime Read Aloud with Geroge Marks Wednesday, July 29 ⎮ 7:30 pm EST Join George Marks of Clemson Men’s Soccer for Read Aloud Storytime! With the permission of Harper Collins and with approval by Clemson Compliance, the Clemson Alumni Association is excited to offer a read-aloud storytime for families to enjoy in the evening before bedtime. Join George as he reads “The Giving Tree” by Shel Silverstein. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Brennan Beck ’21 Tuesday, August 11 ⎮ Noon, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association for a Q&A session with Brennan Beck, Director of Military and Veteran Engagement, discussing the importance of creating a Veteran inclusive Campus. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Dr. Amy Pope Tuesday, August 18 ⎮ 6:00 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association for a Q&A session with Dr. Amy Pope, Clemson Senior Lecturer of Physics and Astronomy, discussing the interesting connection between physics and astronomy, and sports. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Jimmy Mullinax, U.S. Army Lt. Col. Retired Tuesday, August 25 ⎮ Noon, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association for a Q&A session with retired U.S. Army Lieutenant Colonel Jimmy Mullinax discussing Clemson University’s military heritage and the effort to keep it alive and strong. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Don Munson HA’20 Tuesday, September 8 ⎮ Noon, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association as we host a Facebook Live Q&A session with the Voice Behind the Victories, Clemson Athletics Director of Broadcasting and 2020 Honorary Alumnus, Don Munson. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Erica Walters ’99 Thursday, Oct. 1⎮ 12:00 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association as we host a Facebook Live Q&A session with ClemsonLife Program Manager Erica Walters ’99. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Neil Burton M ’91, PhD ’00 and Deborah Cremer ’10 Thursday, Oct. 8⎮ 12:00 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association as we host a Facebook Live Q&A session with Executive Director, Center for Career and Professional Development, Neil Burton M ’91, PhD ’00 and Director of Alumni Career Services and Special Initiatives, Deborah Cremer ’10 Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Dr. Corey Kalbaugh ’00 Tuesday, Oct. 13⎮ 6:00 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association as we host a Facebook Live Q&A session with Dr. Corey Kalbaugh ’00, M’03 discussing Epidemiology in a COVID-19 World and Beyond. Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Jamey Rootes ’89 Thursday, Oct. 22⎮ Noon, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association as we host a Facebook Live Q&A session with Jamey Rootes ’89, President of the Houston Texans, discussing Tigers…and Texans! Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Carl Sobocinski ’90 Thursday, Oct. 29⎮ Noon, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association as we host a Facebook Live Q&A session with Carl Sobocinski ’90, founder and president of Table 301 Restaurant Group, discussing Restaurants, Pandemic, and Recognition! Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with presidential candidate, Dr. Jo Jorgensen ’02 Thursday, Nov. 12⎮ Noon, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association as we host a Facebook Live Q&A session with presidential candidate and Clemson senior lecturer, Dr. Jo Jorgensen PhD ’02, POTUS: A Post-Election Conversation! Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Kathy Hobgood Thursday, Nov. 19⎮ Noon, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association as we host a Facebook Live Q&A session with Kathy Hobgood, Clemson AVP Student Auxiliary Services, discussing Clemson housing and Dining: The past, the present, the future…and in COVID! Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Davis Babb Thursday, Dec. 3⎮ Noon, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association as we host a Facebook Live Q&A session with Davis Babb, Chief Executive Officer of IPTAY, discussing IPTAY: History, Impact and COVID! Join us on Facebook for this event. Facebook Live Q&A with Julio Hernandez Thursday, Dec. 17⎮ 12:00 pm, EST Join the Clemson Alumni Association as we host a Facebook Live Q&A session with Julio Hernandez, Assistant VP for Inclusive Excellence/Executive Director for Hispanic Outreach discussing Enriching, Enhancing and Embracing the Hispanic/Latinx Clemson Experience. Join us on Facebook for this event. View All Upcoming Events Find a Club in your Area Virtual Engagement Opportunities Event Photography Reconnect to Clemson Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info