Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu All News Sub Navigation In This Section News & Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories 268 Results based on your selections. Alumni & Friends Combating anti-Black racism through education, conversation, and scholarship aid September 29, 2020 As part of the BrownTogether campaign, the University community is supporting a range of diversity and inclusion initiatives that further Brown's long-standing leadership in confronting widespread racial injustice. Read Article Open details for Combating anti-Black racism through education, conversation, and scholarship aid News from Brown ‘Race &’ series investigates origins, history and effects of racism in America September 15, 2020 The monthly panel discussion series, happening throughout the 2020-21 academic year, will confront and examine the role that racism plays in American public health, democracy, punishment and more. Read Article Open details for ‘Race &amp;’ series investigates origins, history and effects of racism in America News from Brown Brown named among world’s top universities in national, international rankings September 14, 2020 The University was ranked No. 14 in U.S. News and World Report and earned high marks in a range of higher education rankings focused on academic experience, undergraduate research, return on investment and more. Read Article Open details for Brown named among world’s top universities in national, international rankings Alumni & Friends Ana M. Bermúdez ’86, P’22 on social justice in the criminal justice system September 11, 2020 This episode of the Women’s Voices Amplified podcast features a conversation with New York City Department of Probation Commissioner Ana M. Bermúdez ’86, P’22 on the essential link between criminal justice and social justice, how her experience at Brown shaped her, and the importance of using our voices. Read Article Open details for Ana M. Bermúdez ’86, P’22 on social justice in the criminal justice system News from Brown Letter from Brown’s senior leaders: Update on actions to address racial injustice September 1, 2020 Read Article Open details for Letter from Brown’s senior leaders: Update on actions to address racial injustice News from Brown Brown University fully funds $10M endowment to support Providence public schools July 29, 2020 The University will permanently endow the Fund for the Education of the Children of Providence, which will provide financial support for the city’s Pre-K-12 students through a range of educational initiatives. Read Article Open details for Brown University fully funds $10M endowment to support Providence public schools News from Brown Computational brain science center at Brown to catalyze research, train students and scholars July 24, 2020 The Center for Computational Brain Science at Brown’s Carney Institute for Brain Science will harness the University’s expertise in computation, cognition and systems neuroscience toward new brain health solutions. Read Article Open details for Computational brain science center at Brown to catalyze research, train students and scholars News from Brown Brown student startup seeks to revolutionize crop disease prevention July 23, 2020 Cloud Agronomics — a student and alumni venture launched with support from the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship — uses hyperspectral imaging to detect crop-borne diseases that destabilize food supplies and cost farmers billions. Read Article Open details for Brown student startup seeks to revolutionize crop disease prevention News from Brown Virtual summer institute connects Brown undergraduates with vast network of alumni and parent mentors July 15, 2020 Through the BrownConnect Summer Institute, University alumni and parents provide professional experiences and mentorship to current students and newly minted graduates interested in a wide range of fields. Read Article Open details for Virtual summer institute connects Brown undergraduates with vast network of alumni and parent mentors Alumni & Friends Alumni, Parents, and Friends Establish the Mahmoud Darwish Professorship in Palestinian Studies July 14, 2020 In late May 2020, Brown's Center for Middle East Studies announced the establishment of the inaugural endowed professorship in Palestinian Studies. Read Article Open details for Alumni, Parents, and Friends Establish the Mahmoud Darwish Professorship in Palestinian Studies News from Brown At $23.7 million, largest NSF grant in university history to renew Brown’s math institute July 13, 2020 The largest single National Science Foundation grant in Brown’s history will fund ICERM, Brown’s national mathematics institute, for the next five years. Read Article Open details for At $23.7 million, largest NSF grant in university history to renew Brown’s math institute News from Brown Graduate students, recent Brown alumni earn 36 Fulbright scholarships July 1, 2020 With COVID-19 complicating international travel, this year’s student Fulbright winners will begin their teaching and research assignments across the globe at the start of 2021. Read Article Open details for Graduate students, recent Brown alumni earn 36 Fulbright scholarships Alumni & Friends Because of Brown June 23, 2020 For Scott Westerfield ’79 and Ed Miskevich ’79, Brown wasn't just where it all began: it’s where it was all made possible. Read Article Open details for Because of Brown Alumni & Friends Asking the right questions // Deb Mills-Scofield ’82 on mentorship June 18, 2020 After years serving as a resource for Brown students, Deb Mills-Scofield ’82 shares her views on why mentoring is both important and mutually beneficial, how alumni can help students and new graduates, and the common traits she finds in Brunonians. Read Article Open details for Asking the right questions // Deb Mills-Scofield ’82 on mentorship Alumni & Friends Researchers at Brown: Prepared to Pivot in a Crisis June 17, 2020 Physicians and scientists at Brown University and the Warren Alpert Medical School play a vital role in Rhode Island's pandemic response. Read Article Open details for Researchers at Brown: Prepared to Pivot in a Crisis Alumni & Friends How you can help Brown students in this emergency — and beyond May 29, 2020 Amidst the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), alumni and friends have stepped forward to meet our students' immediate needs. But we know that economic hardships will continue to increase in the months to come. Here's how you can help. Read Article Open details for How you can help Brown students in this emergency — and beyond Alumni & Friends Resilience, generosity and action emerge from COVID-19 May 28, 2020 From celebrating Match Day virtually to jumping in to serve during a global health crisis, how students and the wider Brown medical community are responding to the pandemic. Read Article Open details for Resilience, generosity and action emerge from COVID-19 News from Brown New initiative to reshape, improve competitiveness in Brown varsity and club athletics May 28, 2020 The Excellence in Brown Athletics Initiative will revise the University’s roster of varsity sports teams, invest in club sports and enhance recruitment, squad sizes, coaching, training and facilities. Read Article Open details for New initiative to reshape, improve competitiveness in Brown varsity and club athletics Alumni & Friends Handling With Care: Alumnus guides families through pediatric cancer May 27, 2020 Pediatric neuro-oncologist Stephen Gilheeney ’95 MMSc’97 MD’99 works with children and families affected by brain and spinal cord tumors. Although COVID-19 has changed the way he practices, he credits his experience at Brown—both as an undergraduate and in the Warren Alpert Medical School—with helping him become an exceptional physician. Read Article Open details for Handling With Care: Alumnus guides families through pediatric cancer Alumni & Friends Brown’s faculty puts its expertise to work May 21, 2020 Several faculty members across disciplines have shifted their research and community engagement efforts to focus specifically on COVID-19. Through their expertise and collaboration, they're providing a guide for addressing both the immediate and future effects of this global health and economic crisis. Read Article Open details for Brown’s faculty puts its expertise to work Alumni & Friends How Brunonians are pitching in during the pandemic May 20, 2020 As the world grapples with COVID-19, Brown alumni, students, and faculty are doing what they do best: making a difference. Read Article Open details for How Brunonians are pitching in during the pandemic News from Brown Both virtually and on-site, topping-off ceremony celebrates future health and wellness center at Brown May 11, 2020 The under-construction center and residence hall on Brook Street in Providence remains on track to bring the University’s health and wellness programs under one roof as early as Spring 2021. Read Article Open details for Both virtually and on-site, topping-off ceremony celebrates future health and wellness center at Brown Alumni & Friends Understanding the origins of age-related disease May 1, 2020 By 2040, approximately one in five people in the U.S. will be 65 years old or older. As Americans are increasingly dealing with age-related diseases such as diabetes, heart disease, stroke, and Alzheimer’s, Brown researchers are trying to understand why aging occurs in an attempt to meet the country’s growing health care needs. Read Article Open details for Understanding the origins of age-related disease Alumni & Friends Living longer. Living better. May 1, 2020 Can we live longer without major health challenges? Based on the research happening at Brown’s Center on the Biology of Aging, the prognosis is good. Read Article Open details for Living longer. Living better. Alumni & Friends Your guide to Brown’s online offerings for alumni and friends April 13, 2020 At home because of the coronavirus? Learn more about the many ways Brown alumni can virtually connect, learn, and even seek inner peace. Read Article Open details for Your guide to Brown’s online offerings for alumni and friends Alumni & Friends Opening doors for physicians of the future March 10, 2020 By recruiting and supporting more aspiring physicians from underrepresented groups, like Krissia Rivera Perla ’15 MD’21, the Warren Alpert Medical School is increasing diversity at Brown and shaping the future of effective patient care. Read Article Open details for Opening doors for physicians of the future Alumni & Friends Open Curriculum: “I was given the power to nurture my own learning” March 5, 2020 Nadirah Moreland ’94 shares the “magic of Brown” with the next generation of learners. Read Article Open details for Open Curriculum: “I was given the power to nurture my own learning” Alumni & Friends Dr. Teena Shetty ’95 MD’00 on concussions and compassionate care February 28, 2020 In this episode of Women’s Voices Amplified, neurologist Teena Shetty ’95 MD’00 shares her thoughts on the human element in medicine, the importance of female mentorship, and how Brown helped shape her worldview. Read Article Open details for Dr. Teena Shetty ’95 MD’00 on concussions and compassionate care News from Brown Accomplished physician, public health scholar named School of Public Health dean at Brown February 26, 2020 Dr. Ashish K. Jha, faculty director of the Harvard Global Health Institute, will work to advance academic excellence and provide strategic direction for the school, effective Sept. 1, 2020. Read Article Open details for Accomplished physician, public health scholar named School of Public Health dean at Brown News from Brown Brown plans new 375-bed residence hall on College Hill campus February 18, 2020 As envisioned, a new two-building, 130,000-square-foot residence hall will strengthen the residential experience for third- and fourth-year students and reduce the demand for off-campus rentals. Read Article Open details for Brown plans new 375-bed residence hall on College Hill campus Alumni & Friends Open Curriculum: “Challenging students to take risks” January 24, 2020 Physician and educator Rex Chiu ’89 MD’94 reflects on the ways a Brown education fosters a spirit of exploration and collaboration that stays with alumni long after graduation. Read Article Open details for Open Curriculum: “Challenging students to take risks” Alumni & Friends Starships and String Theory: Chasing the big questions at Brown December 18, 2019 Physics professor Sylvester "Jim" Gates charts his path from sci-fi fan to theorist, teacher, and collaborator, and reveals how he's using a centuries-old language to uncover new possibilities. Read Article Open details for Starships and String Theory: Chasing the big questions at Brown Alumni & Friends The making of a public health professional December 12, 2019 Growing up in a low-income area, Francisco Marquez MPH’20 saw firsthand the effects of health care inequity. Thanks to a fellowship, he's able to fully focus on research and community work to improve health outcomes for disadvantaged communities. Read Article Open details for The making of a public health professional Alumni & Friends In service to those who serve December 6, 2019 How one small community is making a big impact in the lives of Brown’s military-affiliated students. Read Article Open details for In service to those who serve Alumni & Friends Vision takes form: A sneak peek at Brown’s future arts hub November 22, 2019 The University unveils design renderings for its new Performing Arts Center. Read Article Open details for Vision takes form: A sneak peek at Brown’s future arts hub Alumni & Friends Open Curriculum: "Becoming a more thoughtful leader" November 22, 2019 American Studies concentrator turned entrepreneur Michelle Frea ’14 shares her thoughts on the beauty of a Brown education and its inherent lessons in leadership, discipline, and responsibility. Read Article Open details for Open Curriculum: &quot;Becoming a more thoughtful leader&quot; Alumni & Friends Open Curriculum: “We craved greater authenticity” November 21, 2019 The 1960s was marked by pivotal moments in Brown’s history: from Vietnam War protests to an emerging idea that would come to be called the “New Curriculum.” While back on College Hill for his 50th Reunion, Richard Crocker ’69, P’02 AM’18 reflected on the roots of the Open Curriculum and its impact on the University, higher education and beyond. Read Article Open details for Open Curriculum: “We craved greater authenticity” Alumni & Friends Brain Power: Boosting Alzheimer’s research at Brown November 19, 2019 Recent hires, game-changing grants, and collaboration are helping to position Brown’s Carney Institute for Brain Science as a global leader in Alzheimer’s research and treatment. Read Article Open details for Brain Power: Boosting Alzheimer’s research at Brown Alumni & Friends Meg Wolitzer ’81 on the importance of fiction November 18, 2019 This latest episode of Brown Blasts: Women's Voices Amplified features a conversation with New York Times bestselling author Meg Wolitzer that ranges from falling under the spell of a book, to why listening matters, and what she learned from working with Nora Ephron. Read Article Open details for Meg Wolitzer ’81 on the importance of fiction Alumni & Friends This is how you do it: Classes of the 90s host multi-city event November 15, 2019 It was a single idea—and a singularly committed community of volunteers—that drew hundreds of alumni out to hit "rewind" and reunite in cities around the world. Read Article Open details for This is how you do it: Classes of the 90s host multi-city event Alumni & Friends The rise of digital health November 12, 2019 As a practicing emergency physician, Dr. Megan Ranney MPH’10 RES’08 believes that the emergency department is where you can change a patient’s health care trajectory. And technology is her tool of choice. Read Article Open details for The rise of digital health Alumni & Friends Marine Corps veteran makes the switch from avionics to academics November 11, 2019 After a life-changing NICU experience, new mom and aviation tech Tiara Young ’23 set her sights on a career in neonatology. Now she has found her new path—and a supportive veteran network—at Brown. Read Article Open details for Marine Corps veteran makes the switch from avionics to academics News from Brown Brown to double number of U.S. military veterans enrolled as undergrads by 2024 November 11, 2019 At Brown’s annual Veterans Day ceremony, President Christina H. Paxson announced plans for increased financial aid for student veterans, need-blind and test-optional admission policies and new partnerships to increase the number of veterans at Brown. Read Article Open details for Brown to double number of U.S. military veterans enrolled as undergrads by 2024 Alumni & Friends Stranger Things: Brown Edition October 31, 2019 Some of Brown's traditions and lore are stranger than others. Read Article Open details for Stranger Things: Brown Edition News from Brown Brown celebrates Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship’s dedicated new home October 28, 2019 Celebration recognizes the impact already being made in the collaborative, configurable space home to the Nelson Center, recently recognized as one of the globe’s outstanding emerging entrepreneurship centers. Read Article Open details for Brown celebrates Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship’s dedicated new home Alumni & Friends Open Curriculum // Defining the Brown Experience for 50 Years October 22, 2019 Today, the Open Curriculum is the foundation of a Brown education. But when it was initially adopted in 1969, it was a radical approach to teaching and learning. It was innovative. It was student-centered. It was redefining higher education. Read Article Open details for Open Curriculum // Defining the Brown Experience for 50 Years Alumni & Friends Lois Lowry ’58 on the power of noticing October 17, 2019 This latest episode of Brown Blasts: Women's Voices Amplified features an interview with the award-winning author of more than 40 books, including The Giver, about her creative process, her advice for writers, her new book, and more. Read Article Open details for Lois Lowry ’58 on the power of noticing Alumni & Friends Following a code September 27, 2019 By coming to Brown to embrace new challenges — like combining computer science with humanities studies through the Open Curriculum — Turkish student Melis Gökalp ’21 is on a path to improve the lives of those in her home country. Read Article Open details for Following a code News from Brown With 12.4% return, Brown endowment grows to record $4.2 billion September 27, 2019 The endowment’s strong performance was broad-based across the portfolio and bolstered by protecting capital during stock market declines. Read Article Open details for With 12.4% return, Brown endowment grows to record $4.2 billion Alumni & Friends Gifted a new life through education September 16, 2019 Amra Sabic-El-Rayess ’00 grew up amidst the violence of the Bosnian War. Here, she talks about that harrowing time, the impact a Brown scholarship made in her life, and the difference she plans to make in the lives of future students who have experienced violence. Read Article Open details for Gifted a new life through education Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page