Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Medical Annual Fund Donor Recognition How we recognize the loyalty and leadership of our Annual Fund supporters. Breadcrumb Home Giving Donor Recognition Sub Navigation In This Section Brown Annual Fund Recognition Societies Brown Family Fellows Medical Annual Fund Donor Recognition Planned Giving Donor Recognition Sports Foundation Donor Recognition What we're able to accomplish at The Warren Alpert Medical School would not be possible without our most dedicated supporters. From scholarship aid to student research to curriculum development, their gifts to the Annual Fund support the bedrock of the School. And we think that's something worth celebrating. Partner in Distinction By making a sustaining, leadership commitment to the Medical Annual Fund of $75,000 or more (payable over as many as five years), a donor is recognized as a Partner in Distinction. It's a meaningful way to participate in the BrownTogether campaign while having an impact on today’s students. A Partner in Distinction is recognized with: Permanent recognition on a plaque in The Warren Alpert Medical School building. Membership in the Dean’s Circle. An annual report on students benefiting from your gift. Personalized access to regional, virtual and on-campus lectures and events. Engagement with Brown leadership. Invitations to donor recognition events and a listing in the Honor Roll of Donors. Recognition as an Annual Fund Leader through the Carrie Tower Society. The Dean's Circle Dean’s Circle members—those who give $5,000 or more annually—are the foundation of our success. Their support accounts for more than 65% of our yearly fundraising total. Members of The Dean's Circle are recognized with: Invitations to Dean’s Circle recognition events throughout the year. Personalized access to regional, virtual and on-campus lectures and events. Opportunities to connect with Brown leaders and the students who benefit from their support. A listing in the Honor Roll of Donors. Ultimately, your support means opportunities for students to make a mark on their communities and the patients they will serve. It is an incredible show of support for our future physicians and the Brown community as a whole. Dean Jack A. Elias, MD Senior Vice President for Health Affairs and Dean of Medicine and Biological Sciences For information about donor recognition, please contact: Cailie Burns Associate Dean for Biomedical Advancement +1 (401) 863-1635 cailie_burns@brown.edu 2019-20 Honor Roll We owe our successes and triumphs to our dedicated supporters. We celebrate their generosity and what they've made possible in our Brown Medical Annual Fund Honor Roll of Donors. View the 2019-20 BMAF Honor Roll of Donors (PDF) Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Medical Annual Fund Donor Recognition Open details for Medical Annual Fund Donor Recognition Bookmark this Page