Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month Pride Month UC Alumni Association » Get Involved » College Networks » CAHS Alumni » MHA Alumni Network Set Navigation title in component Update Your Info College Networks CAHS Alumni MHA Alumni Network A&S Alumni Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups African American Alumni Affiliate 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Masters of Health Administration Alumni Network The MHA Alumni Network was established in Fall 2018 with a mission to support the program's accreditation efforts and connect alumni. Nine alumni and three faculty members meet quarterly to strategically plan engagement opportunities and advocate for the MHA program. Call for Nominations – MHA Alumni Board 2022-23 right arrow down arrow Deadline: May 31, 2022 Link to Nomination Survey: https://rebrand.ly/MHAelections2022 The University of Cincinnati MHA program invites nominations and self-nominations for four (4) positions on the Executive Committee of the Alumni Board of Directors. Please review the following eligibility requirements, position descriptions, and timeline provided below. MISSION The mission of the MHAAB is to serve as a resource for the program as well as to stay connected with our UC MHA Alumni. In addition, we will use this group to recruit potential students. OFFICER POSITIONS President Vice President Secretary Coordinator - Alumni Peer Support Alliance ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS Eligible nominees for all Officer positions must meet the following requirements: Graduated from the University of Cincinnati, Master of Health Administration program Willing and able to dedicate time and resources to the mission and efforts of the UC MHA Alumni Board (MHAAB) and MHA program NOMINATION & VOTING TIMELINE May 31 - Deadline for nominations June 6 - Candidate names announced & ballot published June 17 - Deadline for ballot submissions June 22 - Candidates notified of results June 30 - Results announced to membership NOMINATION REQUIREMENTS Nominations for all Officer positions should include a candidate statement reflecting interest from the nominee indicating a willingness to serve. This statement will be collected through the Call for Nominations survey. Again, the deadline for receipt of nominations is May 31, 2022. POSITION DESCRIPTIONS Terms for officers begin on July 1, 2022, with terms of service noted below. All officers are expected to attend four (4) board meetings a year: a summer meeting, a fall meeting, a winter meeting, and a spring meeting – which are held virtually given the nature of the MHA alumni reach. Additionally, officers may serve on committees, which may include conference calls several times throughout the year. Officers of the Board of Directors The officers of the board of directors have the principal responsibility for the fulfillment of MHAAB’s mission and the accountability for its operations. The term for each executive officer is 1 year, regardless of which position(s) held. Upon completion of a term, an officer of the board is eligible for re-election for a maximum of 3 consecutive terms (3 years). After the term limit has been met, the executive board member must sit out of office for a period of at least one year. President The chair shall: Serve as a liaison to the MHA program. Coordinate networking and social events for alumni up to two times per year. Collect content for quarterly newsletters from board members, the alumni liaison, and the MHA program, then work with alumni liaison to build HTML email to send to alumni list. Ensure the orders and resolutions of the board are carried into effect and that the overall infrastructure and philosophy of the association is kept on par with the initiatives set forth by the mission statement. Work to optimize relationships with the university and community leaders and to evaluate the pace, direction and organizational strength of MHAAB, in addition to ensuring financial solvency. Oversee board affairs and speak/act on behalf of the board when necessary. Work with the secretary to develop and produce meeting agendas. Assume the responsibility for orienting the incoming President. Make sure all policies and procedures of the board of directors are being followed. Vice President The vice-chair shall: Take the lead on alumni data collection to support accreditation purposes. Connect with alumni and update contact and employment information. Utilize social media platforms and communication avenues including but not limited to LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter, and partnership with alumni liaison to send emails to MHA alumni. Assume the responsibility for orienting the incoming Vice President. Secretary The secretary shall: Schedule board meetings four times per year. Manage and distributes minutes of the board meetings, maintains records and ensures effective management of the board’s records. Send finalized meeting minutes to the President, who will then send them to the MHA program to save in University of Cincinnati Dropbox archives. Keep accurate records and shall work directly with MHAAB to ensure that the Board is in compliance with all university regulations. Be familiar with MHAAB’s bylaws and any pertinent university literature to note applicability during meetings. Collect and deposit any outgoing member's materials and documents into the MHAAB archives. Assumes the responsibility for orienting the incoming secretary. Coordinator - Alumni Peer Support Alliance The coordinator shall: Recruit and manage alumni interested in serving as mentors. Manage students interested in having a professional mentor. Connect alumni and students in 2-year relationships throughout a student’s tenure in the MHA program. Work with a faculty member who focuses on mentorship opportunities. Assume the responsibility for orienting the incoming Mentorship Coordinator. Questions? Email Lauree Handlon, President of the MHA Alumni Board. 2021-22 MHA Alumni Executive Committee right arrow down arrow President: Lauree Handlon '17 Vice President: Teri Werder ’18 Secretary: Shayna McGee '19 Mentorship Coordinator: Francis de la Cruz ’20 For more information about the MHA Alumni Network, email Anna Gormley, Program Director of Alumni & Donor Experience. Briana Coggins, A&S '10, '20 Director of Alumni & Donor Experience, College of Medicine 513-556-4005 cogginbn@foundation.uc.edu University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top