Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Community Harvard Board Nominations The Harvard Alumni Association Committee to Nominate Overseers and Elected Directors is responsible for developing and presenting nominees both for the Harvard Board of Overseers and for Elected Directors of the HAA. Nominate a Candidate Visit the Harvard Elections Website Menu Main menu Community Overview My Profile My Contacts Email Forwarding Email Preferences Message Board My Messages Post A Message Alumni Class Notes My Notes Submit a Class Note Clubs & SIGs Clubs Directory SIGs Directory Volunteer Public Service Stories Careers & Networking HAA Career Resources Career Resources by School HAA Career Webinars Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations Nomination Form Nominating Committee Harvard Elections About the HAA HAA Board HAA Poet Laureate Staff Directory Awards and Recognition Help Each year you and your fellow alumni can nominate candidates to the alumni-led nominating committee for the following year’s Harvard Board of Overseers and Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) Elected Director elections. Nominations are accepted on a rolling basis each year. Candidates can also be nominated by petition. 500+ nominations of alumni from across the globe are reviewed by the committee each year. Nominations for the 2023 slates are being accepted now! Want to learn more about Harvard’s Board of Overseers? The video below might help. You can learn more about the nominating committee and the elections by watching these short videos. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College