Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund Creating an inclusive, diverse, and vibrant academic community at Brown. Breadcrumb Home Giving Brown Annual Fund Sub Navigation In This Section The Brown Fund Brown Medical Annual Fund School of Engineering Annual Fund School of Public Health Annual Fund Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund BrownConnect Fund IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Campus Sustainability Fund Athletics Annual Fund Reunion & Class Giving Ever True Sustainers Volunteer Appreciation Month Phone Wallpapers With the Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund, we're helping to foster a truly inclusive campus—one that embraces, understands, and supports every student who arrives on College Hill. This impact fund provides programmatic support for Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion: An Action Plan for Brown University (DIAP) which prioritizes resources for students from historically underrepresented groups. By enhancing the student experience through creative programming and opportunities, the Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund is helping to create a learning and living environment in which students from all backgrounds can thrive. Support diversity and inclusion at Brown Help make our campus truly inclusive and fully diverse by making a gift today. MAKE A GIFT The Pathways to Diversity & Inclusion Fund supports initiatives and resources including: Centers that provide support, resources, and mentorship for students from diverse communities. Includes Brown Center for Students of Color, the LGBTQ Center, the Global Brown Center for International Students, the Office of Military-Affiliated Students, the Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender, and the Undocumented, First-Generation College, and Low-Income Student Center (U-FLi Center). Emergency support for low-income undergraduate students, including financial assistance for trips home, laptops, books, health insurance, and access to campus dining and housing for those who are unable to afford to travel home during academic breaks. Identity-based program housing that nurtures a community space for students from historically underrepresented groups (HUGs) to discuss all subjects related to identity and a sense of belonging, through programming and community events. Includes Harambee House, Casa Machado, and Buxton International House. Identity-based academic programming that reflects the contributions, lived experiences, and demographic realities of Brown’s HUGs populations through academic conferences, lectures, and cultural programming and events. Includes Africana Studies, Asian/American Studies, Latina Studies, and Native American Studies. For students of color, there's a level of intimacy and trust that comes with having another student of color as a resource and support within the residence halls, especially for first-year students. Sometimes they have difficulty saying 'I need help,' so having someone that's literally sitting next to them, guiding them to the right resources can have a greater impact. Daviana Perez '22 Minority Peer Counselor The Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund supports many student-driven initiatives, including the Minority Peer Counselor (MPC) program. For more than 40 years, MPCs—like Daviana Perez ’22—have been a vital link in the network for support available to new students of color at Brown. MPCs are placed in first-year residence halls, serving as a live-in mentor and guide to all things Brown. Together they have a nearly encyclopedic knowledge of campus resources, student groups, organizations, events, and happenings—allowing them to help students find their place at Brown and connecting them with the support they need. 11 PERCENT of undergraduate students are the first in their families to attend college 126+ COURSES received DIAP designation since summer 2018 $65M DEDICATED to hiring faculty from underrepresented groups during the BrownTogether campaign Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Million Dollar Match through June 30, 2022 All gifts to the Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund will be matched dollar for dollar—up to $500,000. This generous challenge match is sponsored by University Chancellor Samuel M. Mencoff ’78, P’11, P’15 and Ann S. Mencoff P’11, P’15 along with Trustee Emerita Agnes Gund. Impact funds, like the Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund, are part of the Brown Annual Fund family. These giving options strengthen a specific University priority initiative. Gifts made to an impact fund will be used where it's most needed within the fund's focus area, allowing the University to be strategic and effective with every dollar. As part of the family of funds for annual giving with the Brown Annual Fund, gifts made to the Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund and any other impact fund are included in Annual Fund totals and the Reunion Class Gift to the Annual Fund. Want to learn more about the Pathways to Diversity & Inclusion Fund? Please contact: Alyssia Coates, Ph.D. Director of Development for Diversity & Inclusion +1 (401) 863-1221 acoates@brown.edu Related Links Supporting Diversity & Inclusion Pathways to Diversity & Inclusion: An Action Plan for Brown University (DIAP) Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund Open details for Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund Bookmark this Page