Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month Pride Month UC Alumni Association » Donate » Support UCAA Set Navigation title in component Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Support the UC Alumni Association and the University of Cincinnati The UC Alumni Association works to connect its 327,000+ worldwide alumni to each other and to the University of Cincinnati. To facilitate these connections, we are proud to offer volunteer opportunities, events, and affinity networks, just to name a few. Whether you’ve found yourself in a new city, have a desire to mentor students, or would like to attend a virtual wine tasting with other Bearcats, we’ve got you covered. To make this possible, we rely on the support of dedicated alumni. When you become a member of the Loyal Bearcat Society, you share your passion for UC with Bearcats across the world and make it possible for us to reach and engage more alumni while also enhancing your own alumni experience. Join the Loyal Bearcat Society by making a gift of $50 or more to any UC Alumni Association fund. Donate now. The Loyal Bearcat Society is a recognition society for philanthropic supporters of the UC Alumni Association who make a gift of $50 or more to any UC Alumni Association fund. Members receive a Loyal Bearcat card that offers an enhanced set of benefits for one year from the date of their gift. We are grateful for your support and commitment to the UC Alumni Association. It enables us to further our mission of supporting the university by maintaining a strong, vibrant alumni community. Every great university needs a solid alumni foundation – and Loyal Bearcats are key to the overall success of UC. Thank you for your continuous generosity and we hope to see you at an event soon. I'm a loyal bearcat Kelly Grant Associate Director of Annual Giving and Member Services 513-556-6294 grantke@foundation.uc.edu University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top