Skip to main content ncstate-alumni-wolf-web Alumni Association Menu Close About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Benefits facebook twitter linked in email About About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine NC State Magazine Merchandise Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Benefits Making the most of your membership Mr. and Ms. Wuf in front of the red bellower. Photo by Marc Hall The NC State Alumni Association brings together alumni in a powerful network, driven by tradition, community service and a deep love for all things NC State. It’s about people and purpose. Old traditions and new memories. Enhancing your life, community and career. Interested in the benefits of being a proud Alumni Association member? Check out the perks below… Why I’m a member Chuck Flink ’82, a landscape architect and a member of the Alumni Association, talks about his support for NC State. Watch Video Alumni News You can stay up-to-date on the latest campus happening through our print and online communications, including: NC State magazine: Each issue of the alumni magazine, published quarterly, is packed with stories and photographs that capture the best of the university – past and present. Members can also submit class notes – wedding and birth announcements, job promotions and more – for publication. Social Media: Connect with NC State’s active alumni community across several online social media networks, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and LinkedIn. Networks and Constituency Groups Did you know there are currently more than 260,000 alumni living around the world? The Alumni Association actively works to engage alumni through a mix of programs and activities, including: Alumni Networks: Whether you’re interested in service projects and receptions with Chancellor Randy Woodson, looking for friends to meet for happy hours or to cheer on the Pack at your local sports bar, our regional networks provide plenty of events for alumni of all ages. Constituency Groups: Alumni constituency groups, based on affiliations such as occupation, major, scholarship, ethnicity or class year, regularly meet for reunions and provide various opportunities to network, socialize and mentor current students. Business Discounts Members have access to discounts on products and services across the United States. By presenting your membership card at participating businesses, using promotion codes when shopping online and taking advantage of our service partners, members can save hundreds of dollars per year. Career Coaching Access to two one-hour career coaching sessions (a $200 value) via phone or in-person for NC State graduates only. Use this session for any career-related issue, such as resume/cover letter development, interview preparation, job-search strategies or any other aspect of career planning. Access to ePACK ePACK: The university’s job board, provides you special access to job postings, the ability to search recruiting contacts, and the option to upload your resume so it can be searched by employers who are actively looking for talented NC State graduates. Alumni Association Home Campus Box 7503 NC State University Raleigh NC 27695-7503 919.515.3375 Campus Map About Membership Events Engagement News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.