Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Driven by the alumni community, the Inman Page Black Alumni Council (IPC) Brown Annual Fund Scholarship is helping support Black students at Brown. Breadcrumb Home Giving Brown Annual Fund Sub Navigation In This Section The Brown Fund Brown Medical Annual Fund School of Engineering Annual Fund School of Public Health Annual Fund Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund BrownConnect Fund IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Campus Sustainability Fund Athletics Annual Fund Reunion & Class Giving Ever True Sustainers Volunteer Appreciation Month Phone Wallpapers The Inman Page Black Alumni Council (IPC) Brown Annual Fund (BAF) Scholarship provides financial aid for exceptional African American and Black students at Brown. Created in commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Black Student Walkout of 1968, the scholarship is one of the University's newest additions to its growing efforts to cultivate a fully diverse and inclusive Brown. Be an agent of change Support diversity at Brown by giving to the IPC BAF Scholarship today. MAKE A GIFT Since the scholarship was announced at the 2018 Black Alumni Reunion, it has received resounding support from the Brown alumni community. To get the scholarship off the ground, they had to raise $100,000 in just nine months. Instead, they hit their goal in just four months and raised $130,000 in total—enabling the launch of the scholarship for the 2019-20 academic year. Support for the scholarship has continued to grow exponentially. The scholarship has expanded to cumulatively support eight students since its launch. Being a recipient of this scholarship is incredible. People who don't even know me are rooting for me and my success. Knowing that others want to see me win and beat the odds makes me want to do just that and more. Zakiyah Whitaker '23 IPC BAF Scholarship recipient IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Challenge through June 30, 2022 All gifts to the IPC BAF Scholarship will be matched dollar for dollar—up to $500,000. This generous challenge match is sponsored by University Chancellor Samuel M. Mencoff ’78, P’11, P’15 and Ann S. Mencoff P’11, P’15, along with Holly R. Hagens ’93 and Todd Sisitsky; Jill Cowan P’23 and Stephen Davis P’23; Bernadette Aulestia ’94, P’23 and Kristian E. Lynch ’94, P’23; and David M. Togut ’86, P’20 and Tracy E. Elstein ’86, P’20. For information about specific giving opportunities, please contact: Alyssia Coates, Ph.D. Director of Development for Diversity and Inclusion +1 (574) 276-2434 alyssia_coates@brown.edu Related Links Supporting Diversity & Inclusion Inman Page Black Alumni Council Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Open details for IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Bookmark this Page