Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Seniors & Recent Grads Your time as a student has lasted just a few years, but you’ll be a Brown alum for the rest of your life. Breadcrumb Home Communities & Interests Sub Navigation In This Section Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Seniors & Recent Grads Your time as a student has lasted just a few years, but you’ll be a Brown alum for the rest of your life. Brown doesn’t end when you graduate. Welcome to the rest of your Brown experience! We're here to help you launch your next adventure and stay connected with your fellow Brunonians. Here are some ways to keep Brown in your life as you become an alum. For Seniors: Services you can access before you graduate Use BrownConnect to meet thousands of alumni ready to talk to you about their careers. Join over 17,000 alumni on the Brown Alumni Association’s LinkedIn group. Stay in touch with your Brown community on social media. CareerLAB—the Center for Careers and Life after Brown—has advising, programs, and resources to help students with their career goals. For Recent Grads: Perks and benefits for alumni Career and Professional Resources Career support from CareerLAB and more! Brown alumni have access to CareerLAB services for up to three years after graduation. Resources include counseling appointments, guidance on exploring careers in different fields, and guides for creating standout resumes, writing cover letters, and negotiating job offers. Career help is also available through these online career tools for Brown alumni. While you can continue to find career contacts in BrownConnect, you can also search the Handshake Job Board, practice your interviewing skills, get tips from free career webinars, and more. Tap into the Brown Network Start a dialogue with the Brown alumni professional network through the Brown Alumni Association LinkedIn Group or search for alumni by title, keyword, or company on LinkedIn’s Brown University “alumni” tab. If you find an alumnus/a on LinkedIn that you are interested in connecting with, check to see if they’re on BrownConnect, where you can use information such as Networking Topics and Brown Concentrations to tailor your conversation, and use the message function to email them directly. NOTE: In order to continue using BrownConnect to contact alumni after graduation, you must turn on your BrownConnect visibility through editing your profile on the Alumni Directory. Under "BrownConnect Networking Preferences," answer "Yes" to student-to-alumni and alumni-to-alumni networking. This will both allow you to continue contacting others and to be contacted yourself. Not sure how to begin the networking process? Check out CareerLAB’s handy guide on informational interviewing. Career counseling—by Brown alumni, for Brown alumni Looking for personalized and professional career advice from a career coach? Let an expert (and fellow Brown alum) help you re-envision and realize your goals. Brown Communities Around the World Find your local community Check out virtual Brown events—from book clubs to happy hours, from music to lectures—and connect with the Brown Club in your area. Moving? Make sure you update your alumni profile so you will receive emails about local events. Connect around identities and interests Explore Brown’s roster of alumni affinity groups, and keep in touch with your class. Lifelong Learning Tools and Services Keep learning long after graduation Access free alumni services soon after completing your degree—like Rosetta Stone, the Alumni Directory, and selected library e-journals. Alumni can also apply for lifetime alumni library cards for borrowing within the Brown library system. Advanced Studies and Scholarship Resources Guidance on continuing your education If your post-undergrad life takes you down one of these career paths, check out the resources and fellowship opportunities Brown has made available to you: Planning for Graduate/Professional School Law Careers Advising Health Careers Advising Business Careers Advising Request your transcripts, either in print or as a digital copy. Brunonians Supporting Brunonians Share your time, treasure, or talent as a way to stay involved When you volunteer for Brown you can be a social media ambassador, help run your regional club, your class, or affinity group activities, and more. Find the perfect Brown volunteer role for you. Turn on alumni-to-alumni and student-to-alumni networking settings in your alumni profile under “BrownConnect Networking Preferences,” to allow students and fellow alumni to reach out to you around your career and experience—and to be able to reach out to alumni yourself. Give to The Brown Fund to support the incoming generation of Brunonians. Savings and Other Benefits Services just for you Take advantage of services and benefits specifically for Brown alumni! Get insurance discounts and check out other offerings. Tell the world you’re a Brunonian Use your lifetime @alumni.brown.edu email account and flash a Brown Alumni Association credit card (proceeds help fund alumni programs). Have questions? We've got answers. Reach out to Alumni Success Officer Laura Kenney ’19 in the Office of Alumni Relations at laura_kenney@brown.edu. Get access all in one place MyBrown is your go-to digital destination for Brown-related resources and services. Update your contact info, find events, search the alumni directory, access volunteer tools, and more by logging in today. LOG IN TO MYBROWN Need help logging in? Contact the Alumni Help Desk at +1 (401) 863-9662 or email alumni_help@brown.edu. Related News News from Brown Virtual summer institute connects Brown undergraduates with vast network of alumni and parent mentors July 15, 2020 Through the BrownConnect Summer Institute, University alumni and parents provide professional experiences and mentorship to current students and newly minted graduates interested in a wide range of fields. Read Article Open details for Virtual summer institute connects Brown undergraduates with vast network of alumni and parent mentors Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Seniors & Recent Grads Open details for Seniors & Recent Grads Bookmark this Page