Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Webcasts, Podcasts, and Captured Virtual Events Find collections of lectures, panels and community conversations featuring Brown faculty and alumni sharing their knowledge and perspectives on current events and a range of other topics. Breadcrumb Home Events Sub Navigation In This Section Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Webcasts Community Conversations with President Christina H. Paxson In the Spring of 2020, President Paxson launched this virtual webinar series as a way to strengthen Brown’s campus and community during unprecedented times. Speakers are invited to provide expert perspectives on a range of contemporary topics relevant to the Brown community. "Race &" in America // Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America and the Office of the Provost This panel discussion series draws on the expertise of Brown scholars to investigate the origins, history and enduring contemporary effects of racism in America from a range of fields and scholarly perspectives. It seeks to advance knowledge and understanding and promote a more just and inclusive community and world. "This Is America" // Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice This series explores how American social, political, and economic systems have embedded forms of structural violences that are rooted in anti-Black racism. "Underlying Conditions" // Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America This virtual conversation series engages various experts on the dynamic and multifaceted impact of COVID-19 on already vulnerable communities of color. Webcasts // Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs The Watson Institute and its centers and initiatives present faculty lectures on a wide range of global politics and current issues. Medicine Today Seminar Series // The Warren Alpert Medical School This virtual series features faculty at The Warren Alpert Medical School and the Division of Biology talking about innovative medical research and patient care. "Decoding Disparities" // The Warren Alpert Medical School and the School of Public Health This seminar series examines health inequity and outlines steps toward a more equitable and just health care system. "Conversations with..." // School of Public Health Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the School of Public Health, and his guests explore various perspectives on the COVID-19 pandemic. "Decoding Covid" // The Warren Alpert Medical School Physicians and researchers present virtual seminars related to the novel coronavirus and the present pandemic. "Decoding Pandemic Data" // Data Science Initiative Short talks by experts directly engaged in COVID-related data-driven research activities during summer 2020. Lectures and Programs // Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women Academic lectures, conferences, and alumnae/i programs from this interdisciplinary research center that fosters critical scholarship on questions of gender and difference. Founder Fridays, Startup Studio, Funding the Future // Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Alumni and industry speakers shed light on their own entrepreneurial journeys, the startup building process, and the world of venture capital. Visiting Artist Archive // Department of Visual Art Nationally and internationally acclaimed artists have visited campus to give lectures, workshops, critiques. Podcasts Faculty in Focus: The Podcast // Office of the Provost Hosted by Provost Richard Locke, this series features the work of some of Brown's most compelling faculty members. 30,000 Leagues // Policy Lab This series includes recent discussions on coronavirus-related policies and response. Podcasts // Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Features faculty lectures, podcasts, and more about global politics and current issues. Women's Voices Amplified // Brown Women's Network Features women from all corners of the Brunonia ecosystem sharing their insights on the big questions of work, life, and living in today’s world. Possibly // Institute at Brown for Environment and Society and the Public’s Radio This weekly series, a joint effort with RI’s National Public Radio affiliate, brings together a team of Brown undergraduates and news veterans to tackle listeners’ questions about sustainability. Meeting Street: Conversation in the Humanities // Cogut Institute for the Humanities With a special focus on the forms of knowledge that characterize the humanities, this series explores topics of vital societal interest through conversations with scholars and writers whose voices have helped define issues and shape debates. Related Information Featured University Events Alumni Stories Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Webcasts, Podcasts, and Captured Virtual Events Open details for Webcasts, Podcasts, and Captured Virtual Events Bookmark this Page