Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Play the Video Events Reunions video recap: Three cheers for Old Nassau by Advancement Communications May 24, 2022 Tigers of every generation — an estimated 26,000 alumni and guests — returned to campus this past weekend to celebrate a very special Reunions, in-person for the first time since 2019. Princeton not only celebrated the Class of 2022’s induction into the alumni community, but the Classes of 2020 and 2021 finally got to march in the P-rade after two years of pandemic disruption. The four-day celebration featured many of the traditions that alumni have come to expect with their annual May pilgrimage to the Best Old Place of All. More than 60 alumni participated in 14 well-attended Alumni-Faculty Forums, which ranged in topic from the future of American democracy to climate change solutions; classes and groups gathered in and around arches for step sings; and Tigers of all ages sis-boom-ahhed at a spectacular Saturday night fireworks display in the football stadium. Photos will be posted soon on the Reunions website, and alumni can share their own photos and memories by visiting and tagging @princetonalumni on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Mark your calendars now for next year’s Reunions, scheduled for May 25-28, 2023. Before then, alumni are invited back to campus on October 22 for Forward Fest and Orange & Black Day, celebrated on campus, online and around the world. Plus, President Christopher L. Eisgruber ’83 will be on the road for a series of conversations that are part of the Venture Forward campaign, beginning in December. You May Also Like… View All Reunited: Princeton alumni return to campus for the first in-person Reunions since the start of the pandemic Approximately 25,000 Princeton graduates and their guests descended upon campus for Reunions 2022. Preview: Reunions 2022 After two years of online programming, Reunions is back in person, May 19-22. President Eisgruber welcomes Princeton community back with in-person regional events In a pair of conversations with Princetonians on both U.S. coasts, President Christopher L. Eisgruber ’83 provided updates on the state of the University during the first year of the Venture Forward campaign. View All Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram