Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Reunion FAQs Answers to practical questions. Please check all existential queries at the door. Breadcrumb Home Events Reunions Sub Navigation In This Section More Reunion Fun Reunion FAQs Have a question? Get your answer. Browse the common Reunion topics below to find whatever it is you're looking for. Jump right to: Registration Housing Travel, Parking & Arrival Campus Dance Emergencies, Health & First Aid Accessibility Weather Event Info Dining Social Media & Internet Registration I'm here but I haven't registered. What should I do? No problem! We can register you on-site with an additional fee. (Please note that tickets for limited capacity events can't be guaranteed during on-site registration.) Registration/check-in times and locations are: Friday, noon to 10:30 p.m. 5th – 20th reunions (and recent grads!), check-in on the Pembroke campus (near Alumnae Hall) 25th – 80th, check-in at Wriston Quad Saturday, 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. All classes, check-in at Wriston Quad Can I register online? Online registration is now closed. See “I’m here but I haven’t registered. What should I do?” for information about onsite registration. Is there a registration fee? Yes. A registration fee* is assessed per person and is required to attend any portion of your reunion. *5th, as well as 65th-80th Reunioners: Brown is waiving your registration fee! What are the registration deadlines? APRIL 30: Early discount for all; registration costs apply. MAY 1-19: Regular pricing AFTER MAY 19 (5 p.m. ET): Online registration is closed. An additional on-site surcharge will apply; class meal tickets are limited and cannot be guaranteed. Are there other incentives for me to register before the deadline? Yes! Limited-capacity class events may not be available for purchase during late or on-site registration and additional at-the-door fees will be charged. What should I do if I need to cancel my reservation? As soon as you know that you will not be able to keep your reservation, please cancel it directly through the online registration system until May 19. After May 19, contact Reunion Headquarters at Reunions@brown.edu. We will do all that we can to see that you receive a refund following Reunion Weekend. However, if you have been included in a confirmed number at an event, we cannot guarantee a refund. Who else is coming? Want to see if a certain someone is attending? Find your class’s attendee list by visiting your MyBrown account or visit the Alumni Directory to access to your classmates’ contact information. Can I bring the kids? Absolutely. Reunion is a family event! Kids get a kick out of Field Day. There are activities for all ages, toddler through teenager, as well as kid-friendly meal options. Field Day is also a chance to introduce your kids to the famed Dave Binder and his green alligators. Finally, nothing says photo op like Bruno the Bear playing with your kids on the grass. Procession! Your kids can high-five generations of Brunonians, learn multiple versions of the Brown alma mater (only the appropriate ones, of course), cheer for the new grads, wear funny hats and Brown gear, and of course, see in your face how much you love this place. Memory lane. Show your kids your old dorm, your campus haunts, and maybe introduce them to your favorite prof. Routes may vary. And more: Check the main Reunion schedule and Commencement Weekend Schedule for performances and concerts open to everyone during Reunion Weekend. Your only problem will be that you can’t do everything. Housing What if I want to stay in a Providence inn or hotel? Act immediately! Hotel space in greater Providence is limited. Here are some helpful sites to get you started: Brown Visitor Accommodations website Brown Travel Portal Rhode Island Visitor Info Providence Visitor Info I missed the May 8 deadline to register for on-campus housing. What do I do? If there are still rooms available, you may be able to make a reservation. Visit the Office of Residential Life for further information. Where do I pick up my key? Staying on campus? Room keys can be picked up at your Reunion Check-In site. I'm here but I have no reservation. Can I still stay on campus? On-site reservations are provided on a first-come, first-served basis. Check in with the Office of Residential Life satellite location under Wayland Arch: +1 (401) 863-3502, Res_Life@brown.edu. Travel, Parking & Arrival Where can I find directions to campus? Give your GPS a rest. We’ve got you covered: From the north: From Route 95 South take Exit 25 and turn left on Smithfield Avenue. Then turn left on North Main Street. Then take an immediate right turn on 7th Street. Then turn right on Hope Street South. Then turn right onto Power Street. Then turn right onto Brown Street. From the south: From Route 95 North take Exit 24 East on Branch Avenue to Cypress Street. Turn right on Hope Street South. Then turn right onto Power Street. Then turn right onto Brown Street. From the east: Take I-195 West to Exit 2; continue straight on South Main Street and turn right onto College Street. Continue straight up the hill to the Van Wickle Gates on Prospect Street. From the northwest: From 146 South take the Branch Avenue Exit. Turn left on Branch Avenue. Continue on Branch Avenue East. Then continue East on Cypress Street. Turn right on Hope Street South. Then turn right onto Power Street. Then turn right onto Brown Street. From the west on Route 6: Take Route 95 North, then take Exit 24 East on Branch Avenue. Continue East on Cypress Street. Then turn right onto Hope Street South. Then turn right onto Power Street. Then turn right onto Brown Street. Where can I park when I arrive? To ease your travel to Brown, the University has made additional parking spaces available on campus. You may leave your car in any of the University lots at any time from Friday at 5:00 p.m. through the weekend. The largest lot on campus is the Power Street lot (both lower and upper levels) at the corner of Power and Thayer streets. The top-level entrance is on Power Street; the bottom-level entrance is on the corner of Williams and Brook streets. Additional parking is available at The Wheeler School and Hope High School from Friday evening through Sunday evening. TIPS TO AVOID A TICKET: Even though hourly restrictions are waived for Reunion Weekend, do observe the city’s parking laws and emergency "No Parking" signs. Any cars parked in a temporary tow zone, in marked handicapped spaces without a placard, in violation of a fire hydrant, blocking driveways, or obstructing Brown police or Providence police sawhorses will be towed at the owner’s expense. Parking is prohibited on George Street from Prospect Street to Brown Street, on Brown Street from George Street to Charlesfield Street, and on Waterman Street from Prospect Street to Thayer Street. There is no parking on Providence city streets from 1 to 5 a.m. Where should I go when I get to campus? On Friday, the 25th – 80th Reunions will check in at Wriston Quad. The 5th – 20th Reunions and Recent Grads will check in on the Pembroke Campus, near Alumnae Hall. On Saturday, all alumni will check in at Wriston Quad. Can someone help me carry my luggage? Yes, Reunion student staff bellhops will be available at Wayland Arch located near Wriston Quad and on Meeting Street near Pembroke Campus. What if I can't remember the campus layout? An up-to-date campus map will be available in your brochure on Reunion Weekend. Who are these extremely young-looking people wearing special name tags and spreading good will? More than 100 Brown students are working this weekend to ensure that your time back on campus runs smoothly. They are here to help carry your luggage, greet you at registration, assist with your class events, and much more. If you’d like to support the Reunion student staff working their way through Brown, gratuity envelopes will be available at Student Staff HQ under Wayland Arch and at Maddock Alumni Center. Campus Dance Where and when can I buy tickets to Campus Dance? Online ticket sales have now closed. You may purchase tickets in person May 23-26. Tickets will also be available the night of Campus Dance at the George Street and Waterman Street entrances beginning at 8:30 p.m. View ticket information. What should I wear? Connect with a Project Runway judge. (Not really; see our “attire” entry below.) Emergencies, Health & First Aid Will masks be available? Upon request, a limited supply of masks are available at registration for alumni and guests returning to campus for Reunion Weekend. What do I do if I am experiencing COVID-19 symptoms? Testing of any type is not a substitute for monitoring and paying attention to the onset and development of symptoms. You must stay home from University events and functions if you are experiencing potential symptoms of COVID-19. Read more about Brown’s policy on testing, masking, and isolation here. Where can I learn more about Brown University's policies regarding COVID-19? Brown is committed to aligning its policies and health protocols with evolving public health conditions, reducing the number of health and safety protocols in effect as conditions improve. All current information about operations and allowable activities are outlined on the "Commencement and Reunion Visitors & Guests" portion of Brown’s Healthy Brown website and announcements regarding updates are continually available via the Messages to the Community page. I no longer plan to attend Reunion. Can I receive a refund? We are so pleased to host many of our Reunion Weekend events outdoors, and we hope you will join us for whichever events you feel comfortable attending during the weekend. If you decide not to attend, please email Reunion Headquarters at Reunions@brown.edu as soon as you know that you will not be able to keep your reservation. We will do all that we can to see that you receive a refund following Reunion Weekend. However, if you have been included in a confirmed number at an event, we cannot guarantee a refund. We also invite anyone unable to join us on campus to participate in our virtual Reunion@Home activities all weekend long! What if I have a medical emergency? The Brown University police dispatch emergency personnel and coordinate all emergency services. For medical emergencies or urgent medical care, call +1 (401) 863-4111. From campus phones, which are designated by blue lights, press the red emergency button. Any uniformed police officer, security officer, or emergency medical technician can assist you in obtaining care. For non-urgent medical care, see "Health Services" below. What if I have a minor medical issue? (First aid) During major on-campus functions throughout the weekend, a first aid station for minor problems will be located in the Stephen Robert ’62 Campus Center (the building formerly known as Faunce House). For emergency medical situations, please call +1 (401) 863-4111. Also see "Emergencies, Medical," above. What if there is a public safety emergency? The Brown University Department of Public Safety dispatches emergency personnel and coordinates all emergency services. To obtain help for any emergency in the Brown community, call +1 (401) 863-4111. From campus phones, which are designated by blue lights, press the red emergency button. To report a non-emergency, or to seek other assistance from the Brown University police, call +1 (401) 863-3322 (extension 3-3322 from any University phone). Health Services: What hours are they open? Brown Health & Wellness, located at 450 Brook Street, will be open Friday from 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Saturday 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., and Sunday from 9 a.m. to noon. The Health and Wellness unit at Brown encompasses five departments: Brown Emergency Medical Services (BEMS), BWell Health Promotion, Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS), Health Services, and Student Accessibility Services (SAS). For 24-hour nursing advice call +1 (401) 863-1330. Accessibility & Special Accommodations Is handicapped parking available at Reunion? Reunion attendees who have a handicapped license hang tag/plate registration qualify for handicapped parking, and special arrangements can be made for drop-off service for those needing close access. To make the necessary arrangements, please submit your request for a handicapped parking permit through this online form, or contact the Event Strategy and Management Office at +1 (401) 863-3100. Will wheelchairs be available? Wheelchairs can be rented, in limited numbers, at Maddock Alumni Center. Arrangements for rentals can be made in advance by emailing Reunions@brown.edu or by calling Reunion Headquarters at +1 (401) 863-7783. Will there be shuttle service? Yes. The SAS (Student Accessibility Services) Shuttle provides rides on request to locations throughout campus for people with disabilities or medical conditions. To reach the SEAS shuttle dispatcher please call +1 (401) 225-9572. Will there be assistance for the hearing impaired? Yes. Please contact Reunion Headquarters by emailing Reunions@brown.edu or calling +1 (401) 863-7783 for more information. Weather & Attire What can I expect the weather to be? Welcome back to Rhode Island, where temperatures on Memorial Day weekend have been as high as 90 or as low as 50, and rain is always a possibility. We strongly advise you to bring an umbrella and to pack for all contingencies. Hey, it’s all part of the New England charm. Could rain affect any of the events? Simply put, no. Many Reunion and class events are outdoors and cannot be moved inside due to the large number of returning alumni and guests. What should I wear? Most Reunion events are casual. It’s Brown—be comfortable! It’s also New England in the spring, which means you should be prepared for a wide variety of weather. See "weather" entry below. Campus Dance attire is a personal choice—gowns, bermuda shorts, tuxedos, jeans—it’s all good. One exception might be your class event, which can be dressier. Class dinners, for instance, are typically business attire. Finally, footwear. Yes, Reunion can feel like a fairytale but leave the glass slippers in your suitcase. College Hill terrain can be uneven (those quaint cobblestones) and damp, even on the grass under the elegant tents. If you are looking for Brown gear to wear, see “Brown Bookstore” below. Event Info Are there any AA/Al-Anon meetings scheduled for Reunion Weekend? An all recovery meeting, which is open to the public, takes place on Saturday, May 28, 4– 5:30 p.m., in the Smith-Buonanno Hall, Room G12. Forums, please! Oh, yes. When your feet are tired from dancing and your mouth is tired from laughing, find a comfy lecture hall and learn something. Forums will take place on Saturday morning and afternoon. For a complete schedule, visit 2022.brown.edu starting in mid-April. Procession: Where do I line up? And how does one form an "inverted sock"? Alumni gather on George Street and the College Green near University Hall. Look for your class signs. The “inverted sock” formation of alumni and graduating seniors is one of Brown’s greatest traditions—follow your class leaders and all will be well. Here’s how it works: Alumni gather along the sidewalk in front of University Hall and along both sides of George Street. See the map in your Reunion brochure for an idea of where your Reunion class will form. Look for your class signs. The procession steps off through Faunce Arch promptly at 9:45 a.m. with the chief marshal leading the graduating seniors down the hill. The alumni division steps off at 10:05 a.m., falls in behind the faculty, and proceeds down the hill toward the Van Wickle Gates. The alumni line the street, poised to cheer on the new graduates, who are beginning their own lifelong connection to the Brown alumni community. The new graduates cheer for the alumni... ...and the alumni, in turn, cheer for the graduates, who are en route to the First Baptist Church to begin their own lifelong connection to the Brown alumni community. After the graduates pass through, alumni join the Procession again. Thus the famous “inverted sock” is formed. What does it mean to “unroll the sock”? It means that the oldest alumni come face-to-face with the youngest alumni. We see the continuity of our alma mater in each other. Does Brown offer religious programs and services this weekend? Short answer, yes. Check the Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life for the schedule as the weekend nears. Dining & Other Facilities What are my dining options? ON-CAMPUS: Are visions of Ratty chicken fingers already dancing in your head? Reunion fare will be slightly classier. In addition to scheduled Reunion meals, including class meals, several campus markets and eateries will be open. NEARBY: Let’s be real—as you may have guessed, we’re not supposed to promote non-campus eateries. That said, we will risk whispering to you: Get thee to Thayer Street. What if I have dietary restrictions? Brown University Catering and local caterers will make every effort to meet special dietary needs. You must email your dietary needs and the names of the catered events you will be attending to Reunion Headquarters at Reunions@brown.edu Can I use Brown's new fitness center? In case you don’t burn enough calories at Campus Dance, you are welcome to use the Nelson Fitness Center during Reunion Weekend. Guest passes cost $12 per person per day and can be purchased online. For hours and more information, please see the Nelson Fitness Center website. Where are the restrooms? A wise person once said, “How long a minute is depends on what side of the bathroom door you’re on.” So, without further ado, here are some general guidelines: Restrooms are located in Stephen Robert ’62 Campus Center, Sayles Hall and Salomon Center. During Campus Dance, many portable restrooms are available on the front green, College Green, and Simmons Quad (formerly known as Lincoln Field). Please note that Sayles Hall, Stephen Robert ’62 Campus Center, Salomon Hall, and several other buildings are closed during Campus Dance. On Sunday only, in addition to Sayles Hall and Salomon Center on the College Green, trailer restrooms will be available on George Street between Brown and Magee streets. Where is the lost & found? Brown’s Department of Public Safety coordinates the lost and found desk. If you find an item, please bring it to the Department of Public Safety headquarters at 75 Charlesfield Street. Call +1 (401) 863-3322 regarding any lost items. When is the Brown Bookstore open this weekend? The Brown Bookstore now features indoor and outdoor seating, Brown souvenirs galore, and, not incidentally, books. Friday, May 27 from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Saturday, May 28 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Sunday, May 29 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday, May 30 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Phone: +1 (401) 863-3168 Social Media & Internet I’m planning to Tweet my thumbs off during Reunion Weekend. What hashtags should I use? #BrownReunion #CampusDance Where can I get wireless access? You are welcome to log onto Brown’s visitor network. Wireless is available in all residence halls, on the College Green, and in many classrooms: From your list of available networks, choose Brown-Guest, then provide your email address, and voila! You’re online! Need more help? Contact Reunion Headquarters: +1 (401) 863-7783 or reunions@brown.edu Related Links 2022 Reunion Weekend Campus Dance Reunion & Class Giving Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Reunion FAQs Open details for Reunion FAQs Bookmark this Page