Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Campus Sustainability Fund Reducing our carbon footprint and making Brown a net-zero energy campus. Breadcrumb Home Giving Brown Annual Fund Sub Navigation In This Section The Brown Fund Brown Medical Annual Fund School of Engineering Annual Fund School of Public Health Annual Fund Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund BrownConnect Fund IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Campus Sustainability Fund Athletics Annual Fund Reunion & Class Giving Ever True Sustainers Volunteer Appreciation Month Phone Wallpapers Serving the community, the nation, and the world is at the core of the University's mission. With our global environment facing challenges of unprecedented scope and complexity, Brown looks to take a leadership role in creating a sustainable campus and future. The Campus Sustainability Fund aims to help the University realize its ambitious goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 75% by 2025 and achieving net-zero emissions by 2040. Support sustainability at Brown Help Brown become a net-zero energy campus today. MAKE A GIFT $ 4.9M SPENT on energy efficient improvements across campus last fiscal year 2,605 TONS reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in 2019 29.7 % PERCENT greenhouse gas reduction from Brown’s 2007 baseline The Campus Sustainability Fund supports: Overhauling the University's central power plant and heating system, eventually providing the ability to heat all buildings on campus with renewable energy sources. Offsetting all Brown's on-campus electricity use through the construction of new solar and wind energy sources. Reducing our energy demand through climate-smart building renovations, technology upgrades, electrification of our transportation fleets, and incorporation of new design principles across our campus. By creating a green campus, Brown shows through action, not just words, that my chosen area of study is important outside the classroom, a move critical for the growth of a vibrant sustainable culture in both the Brown community and the world. Julia Rothchild ’20 Environmental Science As a society, we need full-scale experiments where institutions radically rethink everything from energy consumption to purchases. At Brown we’re leading a transformation of the campus into a living lab, so that we can learn together as a community what it means to live sustainably. Stephen Porder Assistant Provost of Sustainability; Professor of Environment and Society & Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Campus Sustainability Challenge through June 30, 2022 All gifts made to the Campus Sustainability Fund will be matched dollar for dollar–up to $25,000. This generous challenge match is sponsored by Cynthia V. Roberts ’81 and William G. Roberts. Impact funds, like the Campus Sustainability Fund, are part of the Brown Annual Fund family. These giving options strengthen a specific University priority. Gifts made to an impact fund will be used where it's most needed within the fund's focus area, allowing the University to be strategic and effective with every dollar. Want to learn more about the Campus Sustainability Fund? Contact us at brown-fund@brown.edu. As part of the family of funds for annual giving with the Brown Annual Fund, gifts made to the Campus Sustainability Fund and any other impact fund are included in Annual Fund totals and the Reunion Class Gift to the Annual Fund. Related Links Sustainability at Brown Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Campus Sustainability Fund Open details for Campus Sustainability Fund Bookmark this Page