Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Connect Get connected with Yale and fellow alumni! Make meaningful connections with Yalies of all ages for career advice or professional networking. Mentor current students as they prepare to launch their lives post-graduation. And reach out to other alumni via the online directory or the Yale Career Network. Information Links Networking & Careers Grow Your Career and Help Others Do the Same When you combine the wisdom and passion of Yale alumni with their expansive global reach, you get a powerful network capable of supporting you in just about any field! See what’s available to enhance your professional network and your life after Yale. And you can contribute your own expertise by volunteering to mentor a current student! Read More about Grow Your Career and Help Others Do the Same Connect Online Tap Into the Yale Alumni Network Moving to a new city, pursuing new career options, or looking to reconnect with Yale friends? The alumni network can help. In the online directory, you can update your profile, contact other alumni, and set up a Yale alumni email account (YaleMail). And social media is a great way to stay in touch with university news and events, too! Read More about Tap Into the Yale Alumni Network Recent Grads Bulldogs of the Last Decade A Yale degree is just the beginning. BOLD, or Bulldogs of the Last Decade, is your link to curated opportunities for recent grads. Start here and find ways to connect with your fellow Yalies and expand your network, both online and at events happening around the world. Read More about Bulldogs of the Last Decade Current Students Become Part of the Alumni Community ... Today You can be a part of the alumni community long before you graduate! Check out STAY (Students and Alumni of Yale) for volunteer leadership opportunities. And join Cross Campus, Yale’s networking, community-building, and mentoring platform, to connect with alumni who can offer career advice and life wisdom. Read More about Become Part of the Alumni Community ... Today Connect with Yale Additional Links Update Your Information Keep your contact information up to date so you don't miss out on events in your area or campus news of interest. You can update your contact information through the Online Alumni Community and manage your email preferences there as well. Log In Now Yale Alumni on Facebook Join this fast-growing closed group, managed by dedicated alumni volunteers, to connect, reminisce, and discuss all-things-Yale. More than 21,000 alumni (at last count) are waiting to hear what you have to say! Join Us Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page