Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis right arrow down arrow UC Alumni Day at the Indiana Pacers Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore right arrow down arrow Washington D.C.: UC vs. SMU Game Watch International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month UC Alumni Association » Resources & Perks » Discounts & Perks Set Navigation title in component Career Discounts & Perks College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript Discounts & Perks Alumni Discounts & Perks Whether you’re interested in special discounts and offers, need to request university records, or are shopping for all the best Bearcats merchandise, the UC Alumni Association has you covered. Check out all the great benefits and services the UC Alumni Association has to offer, and show off your Red and Black with pride. Everyone in the UC Alumni Association family (all UC alumni) receives these perks and discounts: Insurance & Travel right arrow down arrow GEICO The UC Alumni Association has partnered with GEICO to save you even more on car insurance with a special Alumni Association discount. For your free rate quote, visit GEICO, call 1-800-368-2734, or visit a local GEICO office to find out how much you could save today! Alumni Insurance Program As a member of the UC Alumni Association, you have access to The Alumni Insurance Program (AIP), which offers discounted rates on life insurance, dental and vision coverage, health insurance and long-term care. Travel Program Our unique program allows you to see the world with fellow Bearcats without having to worry about any planning or added costs. Travel Protection Plan Plan for the unexpected. Protect your travel investment against trip cancellation, travel delay, baggage loss and more. Plus, make sure you’re covered while you’re away from home for emergency medical care and emergency medical evacuation, if needed. The UC Alumni Association has partnered with USI Travel Insurance Services to offer a plan designed with our travelers in mind. UC Bearcat License Plates When you get your official UC license plate, you also support scholarships for UC students! UC’s share of the annual special-plate fee ($25 out of the $35 total) goes to fund scholarships awarded through the UC Alumni Association. Hotels & Facilities right arrow down arrow Discounted rates are available at some hotels near the University of Cincinnati area. UC Event & Facility Rental Hosting your meeting, conference or event at the University of Cincinnati provides attendees with a campus experience. Whether you’re looking for a large, contemporary space overlooking Nippert Stadium, or a more traditional event setting, Conference and Event Services staff is on hand to take care of all the details. As a One-Stop Shop, we provide you with one contract, one source of contact and one invoice for all your event needs. Events & Attractions right arrow down arrow Cincinnati Reds Use offer code “ucalumni” for special ticket discounts to select games for Bearcat alumni and friends. No minimum purchase necessary. Offer only valid online. Shopping & Dining right arrow down arrow AARP Discounts Get discounts on groceries, pharmacy items, online shopping, vision, travel and insurance discounts. Enroll at the discounted rate, or call 1-800-830-7844 (toll-free). Career & Education right arrow down arrow Transcripts Request your transcript through the Office of the Registrar. The University of Cincinnati is proudly sponsored by CollegeAdvantage - Ohio's 529 Savings Program. Administered by the Ohio Tuition Trust Authority, CollegeAdvantage makes it easier to start saving for your future Bearcat’s college expenses. Career Services Take advantage of UC Alumni Association resources and build your career according to your plans. Communiversity Enrich yourself (no tests, grades or papers) and experience hands-on learning through Communiversity courses at UC. Diploma Frames The UC Alumni Association has partnered with Church Hill Classics to offer a selection of diploma frames and gifts. A portion of the proceeds from this official fundraiser directly supports the UC Alumni Association. Scholarships Your support helps fund scholarships for deserving UC undergraduates. Alumni scholarships help ensure that future students are able to have the same experiences you enjoyed as a UC student. UC Academics Return to where it all started for graduate school. UC offers dozens of master’s and PhD programs and is home to three nationally ranked professional schools — law, medicine and pharmacy. Athletics & Recreation right arrow down arrow Bearcats on the Road Join UCAA for select athletic events on the road. Campus Recreation Center Discounted membership rates for all alumni through the Red & Black membership Recent alumni (within six months of graduation) get a discounted membership for their first year of membership UC Athletics All sporting events (excluding Football, Men's Basketball and Baseball) are complementary and do not require a ticket to attend. UC graduates within the last five years can enjoy Cincinnati Football and Basketball season tickets at a discounted rate through the Young Alumni Society. Purchase tickets for UC athletic events by phone at 1-877-CATS-TIX or online at gobearcats.com. University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top