Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Date March 25, 2022 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email What’s next for BrownTogether? We’re now heading toward $4 billion. See where the next phase of BrownTogether will take us. When BrownTogether first took shape, one thing became clear: it was going to be the biggest and most ambitious campaign in Brown’s history. It certainly has lived up to its reputation. Since its launch in 2015, the campaign has helped bring scores of brilliant students and top-flight faculty to College Hill, created state-of-the-art facilities and spaces, and solidified Brown’s place as a world-class institution. Through the generosity and dedication of our donors, we eclipsed our initial $3 billion fundraising goal more than a year ahead of schedule. But, hitting $3 billion was not an ending. It was a sign we should keep going. There’s still so much we can do. With a new $4 billion target and end date of 2024, here are some of the key areas where BrownTogether is looking to sustain excellence and break new ground. Creating an enduring pathway to higher education FINANCIAL AID Providing a robust financial aid program is at the heart of Brown’s mission. During the campaign, we’ve strengthened our endowed scholarships, grown our immediate-use support from the Brown Annual Fund, and introduced initiatives like The Brown Promise to eliminate loans from all undergraduate financial aid packages. Building on this success, we will expand these crucial resources in this next chapter of BrownTogether to support additional areas of need—including increased financial aid for student-veterans and moving Brown toward need-blind admission for international students. One campus, a world of possibilities Brown has long been a destination for some of the most talented students from around the world. Valerie Aguilar Dellisanti ’23 is one of them. By expanding financial aid for international students, BrownTogether seeks to bring brilliant students like her to College Hill. READ THE STORY Preparing students for life after Brown CAREER SERVICES Brunonians are tasked with “pursuing lives of usefulness and reputation.” By strengthening career services at Brown, we can equip them to do just that. BrownTogether is slated to play a big part in a new University initiative to transform the Center for Careers and Life After Brown (CareerLAB) into the Center for Career Exploration and Design, a best-in-class suite of career services programs. The vision for this center reimagines career services at Brown with a more comprehensive program that mirrors the freedom and exploration of the Open Curriculum. It will take students through a holistic assessment of how they would like their lives to look after graduation—including, but not limited to, their occupation. Within the scope of the revamped center, campaign support will expand and diversify BrownConnect’s inventory of experiential learning options and dramatically increase funding for low-paid and unpaid internship and research opportunities. Tal Chamdi ’23 discovered his love for radiology during his seven-year career with the U.S. Army. Now an undergraduate student at Brown, Chamdi is eyeing a degree in medicine. Thanks to his BrownConnect internship with The Warren Alpert Medical School and the Providence VA Medical Center, this aspiring physician already has some vital, hands-on experience under his belt. “Being an older student comes with many more real-life expenses. The funding support I received allowed me to fully invest my time and focus into this opportunity.” Upping our game ATHLETICS & RECREATION At Brown, every student-athlete is also a scholar and an active member of the University’s vibrant community. In both their academic pursuits and athletic competition, they learn about themselves and their core strengths, and gain skills that will help them chart a strong path after Brown. With this in mind, the Division of Athletics and Recreation has developed a strategic plan that calls for holistic student development, coaches who serve as life mentors, and facilities that help our teams cultivate a culture of winning and wellness. Support for athletics through the extended BrownTogether campaign will fuel excellence in competition; promote community and leadership among students; and instill the kind of pride that strengthens alumni ties with the University. M. Grace Calhoun on Athletics BrownTogether has already helped elevate Brown’s Division of Athletics and Recreation. M. Grace Calhoun ’92, the division’s new vice president, is determined to keep the momentum going. READ THE STORY Building a healthier world for all BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH, BRAIN SCIENCE, AND PUBLIC HEALTH While Brown has long been considered a major player in biomedical research, support from the campaign has positioned it as a rising powerhouse in cancer and Alzheimer’s research and discovery that can lead to solutions for the world’s most devastating diseases. Building off that momentum, the next phase of BrownTogether will continue to accelerate the University’s work in medicine, brain science, and public health. The School of Public Health came into prominence as a nationally-recognized institution and valuable resource during the COVID-19 pandemic, helping populations navigate the crisis. With BrownTogether, the school will expand its work in areas of critical need, including the opioid epidemic, children’s health, environmental health, and more. Understanding our world THE ARTS, HUMANITIES, AND SOCIAL SCIENCES Brown has a rich history of innovation and collaboration in teaching and education. Those attributes have also made it the ideal place for discourse and scholarship that transcends boundaries and disciplines. The arts offer a lens through which we can understand and reimagine every aspect of society—from history and heritage to health and safety to science and technology. In the coming years, the University plans to build on its strengths in the arts and grow the scope and impact of the Brown Arts Institute through the formation of new campus-wide collaborations with academic units and organizations and with the external community. The additional support enabled by the campaign extension will open up new opportunities for students to learn from and create innovative work with faculty and leading artists who are committed to reflecting the world through their art. Support from the campaign extension will also aid our scholars in expanding the scope of this work and enabling even deeper exploration of the social sciences, humanities, and diversity, equity and inclusion, including: Cogut Institute for the Humanities: supporting collaborative research and curricular innovation in the humanities across the University. Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs: promoting a just and peaceful world through research, teaching, and public engagement. Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America: fostering creative approaches to systemic racism through rigorous and accessible research, scholarship, education, performance, and art. Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice: addressing the legacy of slavery and examining issues of social justice and racial equality. Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women: a feminist research center devoted to critical scholarship on gender and women. How You Can Help Learn more about BrownTogether and how you can support the next chapter of the campaign. MAKE A GIFT EMAIL US LEARN MORE Tags BrownTogether Campaign Featured Giving Related News Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center May 25, 2022 Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 Read Article Open details for Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search What’s next for BrownTogether? Open details for What’s next for BrownTogether? Bookmark this Page