Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu All News Sub Navigation In This Section News & Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories 268 Results based on your selections. Alumni & Friends Breaking new ground in the battle against Alzheimer's October 18, 2021 Early detection. Personalized treatments. Collaborative care. The Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research is positioning Brown to improve patient outcomes now and in the future. Read Article Open details for Breaking new ground in the battle against Alzheimer&#039;s Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Communications Strategist Zack Langway ’09 October 15, 2021 One Brown alum is bringing a sense of community to his work in nonprofit and corporate communications. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Communications Strategist Zack Langway ’09 News from Brown Fueled by soaring financial markets, Brown endowment return tops 50% October 14, 2021 For Fiscal Year 2021, the endowment provided $194 million for student scholarships, scientific research and other strategic priorities — investments in education and research expected to grow markedly in the coming years. Read Article Open details for Fueled by soaring financial markets, Brown endowment return tops 50% Alumni & Friends Giving Tuesday 2021 | November 30 October 11, 2021 Brunonians from across the globe came together to support the people, programs, and promise of Brown. Read Article Open details for Giving Tuesday 2021 | November 30 Alumni & Friends Miranda ADEkoje '04: Writer, Producer, and Actor September 22, 2021 In this episode of the Women’s Voices Amplified podcast, ADEkoje discusses producing art amidst the pandemic, the political relevance of her work, and how Brown’s Open Curriculum empowered her to construct her own career path. Read Article Open details for Miranda ADEkoje &#039;04: Writer, Producer, and Actor Alumni & Friends What it means to wear the white coat September 22, 2021 Brown welcomes its newest class of medical students with its annual white coat ceremony. Read Article Open details for What it means to wear the white coat Alumni & Friends Foundation and corporate grants accelerate research at Brown September 22, 2021 The past year was particularly successful for faculty working alongside Brown Advancement’s Corporate and Foundation Relations team, with more than $26 million in grants awarded to support promising projects in a range of disciplines. Read Article Open details for Foundation and corporate grants accelerate research at Brown Alumni & Friends Celebrating five years of Brown’s hub for entrepreneurship September 22, 2021 Launched in 2016, the Nelson Center is championing “the Brown way” of entrepreneurship: combining learning, research, and practice to support students in realizing their next big idea. Read Article Open details for Celebrating five years of Brown’s hub for entrepreneurship Alumni & Friends A parent’s love, a lasting legacy September 22, 2021 Through her daughter, Cristina García P’14 saw firsthand the power of a Brown education. Through her planned gift, she hopes to give other Latinx families the same experience. Read Article Open details for A parent’s love, a lasting legacy News from Brown National, global education rankings place Brown among world’s top universities September 21, 2021 From the Wall Street Journal to U.S. News and World Report, prominent rankings and surveys in the last year gave Brown high marks for its distinctive student experience, world-class teaching and high-impact research. Read Article Open details for National, global education rankings place Brown among world’s top universities News from Brown New center and residence hall realizes Brown’s vision for integrated student wellness experience September 16, 2021 The University’s recently opened health and wellness center and residence hall is bringing together students and staff committed to promoting student well-being through collaborative care and community building. Read Article Open details for New center and residence hall realizes Brown’s vision for integrated student wellness experience Alumni & Friends Health care and haircuts: Bringing preventative measures to the neighborhood August 11, 2021 In her mission for more equitable health care, Dr. Marshala Lee MD’11 is using every tool she can: mentoring students, educating patients, even training local barbers. Read Article Open details for Health care and haircuts: Bringing preventative measures to the neighborhood Alumni & Friends The ripple effect of the Brown alumni community August 10, 2021 Alumni volunteer leaders explore how a Brown education reverberates into the world at large. Read Article Open details for The ripple effect of the Brown alumni community News from Brown For new BCSC director, success for students of color starts with inclusivity, community August 4, 2021 Vincent Harris, who became director of the Brown Center for Students of Color in June, brings a decade of experience creating inclusive university spaces where students from historically underrepresented groups thrive. Read Article Open details for For new BCSC director, success for students of color starts with inclusivity, community News from Brown What to expect from the Brown Arts Institute in 2021-22 and beyond July 29, 2021 Leaders at the Brown Arts Institute, which transitioned from the Brown Arts Initiative in July, are planning for a return to in-person performances, exhibitions, film screenings and more. Read Article Open details for What to expect from the Brown Arts Institute in 2021-22 and beyond Alumni & Friends #GoBruno: Brunonians at the Tokyo Olympics July 21, 2021 Congratulations and best of luck to all the Brunonians who are in Tokyo for the Olympic Games! Read Article Open details for #GoBruno: Brunonians at the Tokyo Olympics News from Brown For second consecutive year, First Readings will examine Brown’s historical ties to the slave trade July 15, 2021 Incoming undergraduates in the Class of 2025 will read a digitized version of the pioneering Slavery and Justice Report, the selected text for the First Readings program for the second year. Read Article Open details for For second consecutive year, First Readings will examine Brown’s historical ties to the slave trade News from Brown Accomplished higher ed leader Sylvia Carey-Butler to lead institutional equity and diversity at Brown June 24, 2021 Currently the chief diversity officer for Kennesaw State, Carey-Butler will lead the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity, overseeing Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan implementation, Title IX and gender equity, and more. Read Article Open details for Accomplished higher ed leader Sylvia Carey-Butler to lead institutional equity and diversity at Brown News from Brown Driven to create policies for a post-pandemic world, Brown’s largest-ever MPA cohort arrives June 16, 2021 The Watson Institute’s one-year master of public affairs program saw a 58% increase in new students in 2021, due in large part to policy issues laid bare during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for Driven to create policies for a post-pandemic world, Brown’s largest-ever MPA cohort arrives Alumni & Friends The best way to fight Alzheimer’s? Together. June 16, 2021 By convening innovative researchers across academia, Brown’s new Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research hopes to accelerate the pace of development for treatments and cures of this devastating disease. Read Article Open details for The best way to fight Alzheimer’s? Together. Alumni & Friends For one young alum, the impact of financial aid continues to reverberate June 16, 2021 Financial aid has the power to open the door to more opportunities. For Gabriel Reyes ’18, it opened up a whole new universe of opportunities. Read Article Open details for For one young alum, the impact of financial aid continues to reverberate Alumni & Friends Uncovering alternatives to animal testing June 16, 2021 Brown researchers are pursuing a promising new method that could transform toxicology testing, making it faster and more effective without the use of animals. Read Article Open details for Uncovering alternatives to animal testing Alumni & Friends Football gets a modern home field advantage June 16, 2021 The Richard Gouse Field at Brown Stadium makes the jump to a new playing surface, giving football a “play fast” competitive home base. Read Article Open details for Football gets a modern home field advantage News from Brown $5 million gift to fuel new ideas, welcome new leadership at Brown’s Pembroke Center June 16, 2021 The gift from Class of 1976 Brown alumna Shauna Stark, the largest in the Pembroke Center’s history, will establish an endowed directorship and support bold feminist research by scholars from multiple fields of study. Read Article Open details for $5 million gift to fuel new ideas, welcome new leadership at Brown’s Pembroke Center Alumni & Friends Examining COVID-19’s place in history with bestselling author John M. Barry ’68 June 14, 2021 The Brown University Veterans Alumni Council (BUVAC) welcomed the author for a talk titled "Contextualizing COVID-19: Its Impact in Rhode Island and Correlations to 1918." Read Article Open details for Examining COVID-19’s place in history with bestselling author John M. Barry ’68 Alumni & Friends Alpha Gamma: A look back at 100 years June 13, 2021 Two alumni illuminate the history and legacy of Brown’s oldest Black fraternity. Read Article Open details for Alpha Gamma: A look back at 100 years News from Brown Brown alumna captures Pulitzer Prize for study of McDonald’s franchises in Black America June 11, 2021 Marcia Chatelain, who graduated from Brown with a master’s and Ph.D. in American civilization, won the 2021 prize for the history category for her book “Franchise: The Golden Arches in Black America.” Read Article Open details for Brown alumna captures Pulitzer Prize for study of McDonald’s franchises in Black America News from Brown A half-decade of progress at the Hassenfeld Institute is a high five for children’s health June 10, 2021 Launched five years ago with an ambitious vision, the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute is bringing together researchers, physicians, students and community partners to transform children’s health in Rhode Island and beyond. Read Article Open details for A half-decade of progress at the Hassenfeld Institute is a high five for children’s health Alumni & Friends MD/PhDs: Training for the future of medicine June 9, 2021 By blurring the line between patient care and clinical research, this dual degree might be our best chance to tackle some of the most pressing health issues of our time. Read Article Open details for MD/PhDs: Training for the future of medicine Alumni & Friends Valerie Tutson '87 AM'90: Storyteller and Artist June 8, 2021 Tutson reflects on the global influences that have inspired her, the healing power of stories that connect us with our past, and how her independent concentration at Brown allowed her to find her path. Read Article Open details for Valerie Tutson &#039;87 AM&#039;90: Storyteller and Artist News from Brown Brown students, recent graduates earn 27 Fulbright scholarships June 7, 2021 This year’s student Fulbright winners will begin teaching and research assignments in 17 countries around the world in fall of 2021. Read Article Open details for Brown students, recent graduates earn 27 Fulbright scholarships News from Brown Brown alumni to oversee new NASA robotic missions to Venus June 3, 2021 The space agency will send two new spacecraft to Earth’s “evil twin” in the next decade, and both Discovery Program missions will be led by Brown graduates. Read Article Open details for Brown alumni to oversee new NASA robotic missions to Venus News from Brown Brown Corporation elects three new fellows, seven trustees June 1, 2021 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects three new fellows, seven trustees Alumni & Friends Big Problems, Big Solutions May 19, 2021 The Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship celebrates five years of supporting the development of innovative student ideas, teaching entrepreneurship as a set of skills, and helping the Brown community take advantage of a rich variety of entrepreneurial resources. Read Article Open details for Big Problems, Big Solutions News from Brown New health and wellness center and residence hall welcomes first undergraduate residents May 12, 2021 About 114 Brown sophomores, juniors and seniors have moved into the new building, where they will reside while enrolled for this year’s summer term; the building’s full opening will coincide with the Fall 2021 semester’s launch. Read Article Open details for New health and wellness center and residence hall welcomes first undergraduate residents Alumni & Friends Escalating the fight against Alzheimer’s disease May 10, 2021 Generous gifts totalling $30 million are supporting the establishment of the Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research at Brown, with a focus on early detection and viable treatments. Read Article Open details for Escalating the fight against Alzheimer’s disease Alumni & Friends Reunion, with a 2021 Twist May 3, 2021 With events both inspired by reunions past plus brand-new digital extras, Brown’s 2021 Virtual Reunion Weekend bypassed all geographic boundaries and headed straight into the living rooms of thousands of alumni around the world. Read Article Open details for Reunion, with a 2021 Twist News from Brown Brown awards six honorary doctorates during Commencement May 2, 2021 During its 253rd Commencement on Sunday, May 2, Brown University bestowed honorary degrees on a diverse group of business leaders, educators, scholars and scientists. Read Article Open details for Brown awards six honorary doctorates during Commencement News from Brown Student speakers take center stage at Brown’s Commencement May 2, 2021 George Kubai and Siddhi Nadkarni, Brown’s undergraduate student orators, encouraged classmates to work toward a better and more equitable future for themselves and those around them. Read Article Open details for Student speakers take center stage at Brown’s Commencement News from Brown In spirited celebration, Brown community commemorates Class of 2021’s resilience, ability to improvise May 2, 2021 In two College ceremonies on Sunday, Brown President Christina H. Paxson and other speakers lauded graduates who, by successfully finishing their degrees during a pandemic, have proven they can handle whatever comes next. Read Article Open details for In spirited celebration, Brown community commemorates Class of 2021’s resilience, ability to improvise News from Brown Reunion events, Commencement forums capture, virtually, the spirit of community celebration, intellectual discovery May 2, 2021 A fully virtual Reunion Weekend, featuring longstanding traditions and unexpected twists, and a series of remote Commencement forums complemented in-person events taking place on College Hill from April 30 to May 2. Read Article Open details for Reunion events, Commencement forums capture, virtually, the spirit of community celebration, intellectual discovery Alumni & Friends #BrownReunion 2021 April 30, 2021 We’ve been celebrating Reunions for generations—but we’ve never had a Reunion like this. For the first time ever, Reunion is going virtual. Read Article Open details for #BrownReunion 2021 News from Brown Brown to celebrate Commencement and Reunion Weekend with mix of in-person, virtual events April 29, 2021 A series of in-person, socially distanced Commencement ceremonies for graduates and a wide range of virtual events for students, families and Brown alumni will take place from April 30 to May 2 — here is what to expect. Read Article Open details for Brown to celebrate Commencement and Reunion Weekend with mix of in-person, virtual events News from Brown Letter from President Paxson: Justice for George Floyd; our work continues April 20, 2021 Following the conviction of Derek Chauvin, Brown President Christina H. Paxson wrote to the community about the justice many have hoped for since the murder of George Floyd and the need for continued action to confront anti-Black racism. Read Article Open details for Letter from President Paxson: Justice for George Floyd; our work continues News from Brown Brown to confer six honorary degrees at Commencement 2021 April 20, 2021 Brown will bestow honorary degrees on a diverse group of business leaders, educators, scholars and scientists during its Commencement and Reunion Weekend celebration from April 30 to May 2. Read Article Open details for Brown to confer six honorary degrees at Commencement 2021 News from Brown Passages: Brown University President Emeritus Vartan Gregorian April 17, 2021 The University’s 16th president from 1989 to 1997, Gregorian was an accomplished scholar, historian and transformative leader for Brown, the New York Public Library and the Carnegie Corporation of New York. Read Article Open details for Passages: Brown University President Emeritus Vartan Gregorian Alumni & Friends Brunonians taking action against racism April 16, 2021 Brown alumni share stories of how they're addressing racial injustice in their lives. Read Article Open details for Brunonians taking action against racism News from Brown New center will expand research support, community outreach at Brown Library April 14, 2021 The Brown University Library’s new Center for Library Exploration and Research promises to strengthen scholarly inquiry and support for high-impact research by scholars on campus and beyond. Read Article Open details for New center will expand research support, community outreach at Brown Library News from Brown Brown admits 2,537 students to the undergraduate Class of 2025 April 6, 2021 The University offered admission on April 6 to prospective members of next year’s incoming class, who were chosen from Brown’s largest applicant pool to date in an admissions cycle impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for Brown admits 2,537 students to the undergraduate Class of 2025 News from Brown Phase II of Brown’s Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan to focus on equity, inclusion April 1, 2021 In launching Phase II of its ambitious action plan, Brown assessed progress to date, reaffirmed the essential role of diversity and inclusion to academic excellence, and outlined new actions toward a more fully equitable community. Read Article Open details for Phase II of Brown’s Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan to focus on equity, inclusion Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page