Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Travel Travel Talks Lecture Series Travel from home with our virtual content. Each month, Travel Talks delivers stimulating discussions, evoking the spirit of educational engagement with Harvard study leaders. Find our collection of past Travel Talks recordings below. View Travel Talks Playlist Menu Main menu Travel Overview Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List January 18, 2022 Civil Rights in America View the recording of "Civil Rights in America" presented by Professor John Stauffer. December 7, 2021 The Snakes that Bind: Excavating a Magical Amulet in Turkey View the recording of "The Snakes that Bind: Excavating a Magical Amulet in Turkey" presented by Frances Gallart Marques. November 15, 2021 Seeing Stars: The Curious History of Celestial Maps and the Conquest of Mars View the recording of "Seeing Stars: The Curious History of Celestial Maps and the Conquest of Mars" presented by Kelly O'Neill. October 27, 2021 Climate Change Conversations Recording: Professor Robert Stavins View the recording of "What Can an Economist Possibly Have to Say About Climate Change?" presented by Professor Robert Stavins. October 20, 2021 Travel Talks Lecture Recording: Professor James Costa View the recording of "The Other Darwin: Alfred Russel Wallace and the Origin of Species" presented by Professor James Costa. September 21, 2021 Travel Talks Lecture Recording: Professor Werner Sollors View the recording of "The River Elbe: Microcosm of European History" presented by Professor Werner Sollors. July 22, 2021 Travel Talks Lecture Recording: Dr. Lisa Wong View the recording of "Healing the Community Through Music Post-Pandemic" presented by Dr. Lisa Wong. June 15, 2021 Shared Departures Lecture Recording: Italy: In Focus View the recording of “Italy: In Focus" featuring faculty speakers from Brown University, Harvard University, and Tufts University. May 12, 2021 Travel Talks Lecture Recording: Prof. William C. Kirby View the recording of "The Rise of China in the World of Universities" presented by Professor William C. Kirby. April 22, 2021 Travel Talks Lecture Recording: Prof. Ali Asani View the recording of "Exploring South Asia’s traditions and cosmopolitanism" presented by Professor Ali S. Asani. March 26, 2021 Shared Departures Lecture Recording: Cuba: In Focus View the recording of “Cuba: In Focus" featuring faculty speakers from Brown University, Harvard University, and Tufts University. March 11, 2021 Travel Talks Lecture Recording: Prof. Thomas Kelly View the recording of “Vienna in 1824: The premiere of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony" presented by Professor Thomas Forrest Kelly. February 11, 2021 Travel Talks Lecture Recording: Joseph A. Greene View the recording of "Carthage: The Near Eastern Origins of Urbanism in the Maghreb" presented by Joseph A. Greene. January 14, 2021 Travel Talks Lecture Recording: David Aguilar View the recording of "A Tale of Two Poles" presented by David Aguilar. December 10, 2020 Faculty & Research Travel Talks Lecture Recording: Prof. Zarin Machanda View the recording of "What Old Chimps Can Tell Us About Healthy Aging" presented by Professor Zarin Machanda. November 19, 2020 Travel Talks Lecture Recording: Prof. Hopi Hoekstra View the recording of “Nature's Palette: The Evolution of Animal Coloration" presented by Professor Hopi Hoekstra. October 15, 2020 Travel Talks Lecture Recording: Prof. Joyce Chaplin View the recording of "Our Man in Paris: Benjamin Franklin" presented by Professor Joyce Chaplin. September 8, 2020 Travel Talks Lecture Recording: Prof. James Salzman View the recording of "Our Place in the World: The Stories of Maps" presented by Professor James Salzman. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College