Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Student welcome events Work with us Students A scene from a recent Homecoming celebration Photo: Cornell University Photography You’re in good company As a Cornell student, you’re now part of a life-long network of Cornellians that spans time zones, generations, disciplines, and life experiences. Today’s graduates join a community of more than 250,000 alumni who live and work in communities around the globe. Cornellians share a passion for discovery. Wherever we go, we value engagement in our community, our state, and the broader world. We invite you to connect with the amazing professional and social network of Cornell alumni. Join regional events happening in your area when you’re home on break. Connect with alumni online. Or get involved in the Senior Class Campaign. After you graduate, check out your local Cornell Club and connect with Cornellians here, there, and everywhere! Senior Class Campaign Homecoming Alumni life Work with us Young Alumni Programs Traditions Explore Cornell alumni events Plan your Reunion Reunion has something for everyone. Browse events and create a custom itinerary to make the most of your weekend on the Hill! Can't make it in person? Choose the Virtual Reunion package during registration and get access to featured livestream events. Make your schedule Ho Plaza looking south from atop McGraw Tower. Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022