Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Programs & Events Harvard Alumni Day A Celebration of Our Global Community Menu Event Overview Event Schedule Parking and Transportation College Reunions Graduate School Reunions Harvard Alumni Day Harvard alumni are invited to join the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) on Friday, June 3, 2022, for its first-ever Harvard Alumni Day, a University-wide, global event honoring alumni impact, citizenship, and community. This celebration will be held on Harvard’s campus and simultaneously live streamed below for those who cannot attend in person. Register Now View Day Of Schedule Introducing Harvard Alumni Day Friday, June 3, marks the first-ever annual Harvard Alumni Day! This University-wide, global event honoring alumni impact, citizenship, and community welcomes all alumni to join in-person or via livestream. Learn More Watch on Youtube Former Poet Laureate to Speak at Harvard Alumni Day Pulitzer Prize–winning poet Tracy K. Smith AB '94 will be the featured speaker at an on-campus celebration of Harvard's global alumni community on June 3. Read on the Gazette Four to be honored with Harvard Medal Avarita L. Hanson ’75, William F. Lee ’72, Dwight D. Miller, Ed.M. ’71, and Tom Reardon ’68 will receive the 2022 Harvard Medal. Read on the Gazette Allyson Hobbs Elected Class of 1997’s Chief Marshal Allyson Hobbs ’97, whose award-winning writing, scholarship, and teaching tackle the history and lasting impact of race in the U.S., will serve as this year’s chief marshal of alumni. Read on the Gazette 151st HAA Annual Meeting Missed the 151st Annual Meeting of the HAA? Watch the full celebration, including the keynote address by Kevin Young AB ’92, Andrew W. Mellon Director of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College