Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Giving Bequests Types of Bequests Menu Main menu Giving Overview Give Online Planned Giving Gifts That Pay You Income Lead Trusts Assets You Can Give Events Harvard Planned Gift Administration Resources Meet the Staff Contact Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Types of Bequests How to Make a Bequest Benefits of a Bequest Future Use Attorney & Advisor Info Gift Policy Guide Tax Information FAQ Giving Contacts Cash Bequest Harvard receives a specific dollar amount from your estate. Bequest of Property Harvard receives specific assets, such as securities, real estate, or tangible personal property (for example, works of art or antiques). Residuary Bequest Harvard receives all or a percentage of the remainder of your estate after the payment of any specific bequests and expenses. Retirement Plan Harvard is designated as a beneficiary of the remainder of your IRA or qualified pension or profit-sharing plan. Learn more... Gifts That Pay You Income You can establish a Harvard-managed trust or annuity through a bequest. This enables you to arrange for a tax-wise gift to pay income to your spouse, children, or other beneficiaries for life or a term of years, after which the assets pass to Harvard. Learn more... Lead Trust A lead trust can be established through a bequest. Harvard receives income for a term of years from the trust, after which the assets pass to your beneficiaries, often at a much-reduced tax cost. Learn more... Contact Us Please contact our office for information on gift strategies that can help you support Harvard’s teaching and research and provide significant benefits to you and your family. University Planned Giving 124 Mount Auburn Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: 800-446-1277 or 617-495-4647 Fax: 617-495-8130 Email: pgo@harvard.edu Tax I.D. #: ‌04‑210‑3580 Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College