Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College College Seniors The Harvard Alumni Association, Harvard’s official University-wide alumni association, is a dues-free organization composed of all University students and graduates. As a member of the Harvard Alumni Association, you’re part of a 400,000-plus community. Find out how you can connect with alumni, take advantage of HAA educational and networking programs, and support Harvard through volunteer opportunities. View Alumni Directory Follow the HAA on Instagram Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors 2022 Class Committee Graduation Events Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers From your first day as a Harvard student you’ve been a part of an alumni community spanning the globe. With a network of more than 400,000 alumni, your Harvard family will always have your back. As you prepare to graduate and look toward your path ahead, we’re here to support you at all stages in your journey. The Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) is the official organization for Harvard alumni and students from across the University. We connect you and fellow students and graduates with a wealth of networking opportunities, resources, mentorship, and so much more. Don’t wait until after graduation to tap into the programs and tools here at the HAA. You already have a lifelong membership, so take advantage and start building your Harvard network today. You might be asking yourself, “Where do I start?” Take a look at our short video introduction to the HAA and the many ways to connect with your Harvard family. Then, browse through the lists below for more ways to get involved. Harvard’s alumni community is your community, today and for the rest of your life. All of us at the HAA look forward to connecting with you. Communicate Connect to Harvard's more than 400,000 alumni in more than 200 countries. Use the HAA Alumni Directory to connect with alumni; keep your information current to ensure that you are invited to events in your area Join the Harvard Alumni Network on LinkedIn Follow @HarvardAlumni on Twitter and Instagram Check out the Harvard Alumni Association and Harvard College Alumni pages on Facebook Stay up to date on Harvard news through Harvard Magazine, the Harvard Gazette, and HAA email communications Submit a class note to let friends and classmates know what you're up to Participate Get involved with Harvard as an alumnus/a. Meet alumni throughout the year at various events Join one of the nearly 200 Harvard Clubs and nearly 60 Shared Interest Groups Continue to build knowledge through HAA career webinars Travel the world with alumni and faculty through Harvard Alumni Travels Apply for the Harvard Alumni World MasterCard, available exclusively to Harvard alumni Attend your Class Reunion and submit a personal update to your Class Report every five years Become a social media ambassador for Harvard by joining Crimson Connect Make a gift to support Harvard and make attending the College possible for future students Vote for Harvard Overseers and HAA Elected Directors each year Volunteer Convene the Harvard community wherever you next call home. Help plan local recent graduate events as an activities chair Represent Harvard at college fairs and serve as an alumni interviewer for prospective first-year students Mentor students via on-campus programs or digitally through the Career Network Connect with students through the Office of Career Services by posting jobs and internships and serving as an adviser Connect with undergraduates through alumni-led panels and workshops Support Harvard and bond with classmates by volunteering for the Harvard College Fund Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College