Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Ways to Volunteer Volunteer Leadership Awards and Recognition Volunteer Resources Volunteer Volunteers help register Reunion attendees. Photo: Cornell Alumni Association When you volunteer, Cornell benefits Thousands of volunteers help keep Cornell strong and connected, and contribute to our community. Cornell has many ways for you to volunteer. Some opportunities can be done in a day and some, online. You can connect with alumni from former student groups, with a class, or in a region. You can mentor students on campus or join other alumni, parents, and friends in your hometown to be of service to your nearby community in the Cornell name and spirit. Some people look back on their post-graduation years and realize they have spent a lifetime volunteering for Cornell! Many have felt all the richer for it and we recognize these top volunteers through our annual award programs. When you volunteer, Cornell benefits—and so can you. Find an opportunity CUVolunteer: your portal to volunteering for Cornell VOLUNTEER Eleanor Applewhaite and Pauline Degenfelder at the Cornell Alumni Leadership Conference (CALC). Photo: Robert Barker/Cornell Marketing Group Join Cornell Social Cornell's volunteer network of social media ambassadors LEARN MORE The Big Red Bear greets children and families during Reunion Weekend 2012. Photo: Robert Barker/Cornell Marketing Group Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022