Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Scholarships and Fellowships One of Princeton’s defining commitments is its promise to ensure that a Princeton education is affordable to every student. Scholarships and fellowships, along with support from Annual Giving, are essential to fulfilling that promise. “We cannot make the difference that we want to make in the world unless we are drawing talented students from every sector of society.” —President Christopher L. Eisgruber ’83 Did You Know? 100% of the demonstrated financial need of every student is met by grants. 83% of recent seniors graduated with no debt. For seniors who borrowed, the average total indebtedness at graduation was $9,400. Admission is need-blind for all applicants, including international students. Graduate fellowships help Princeton’s Graduate School attract the most promising emerging scholars. Ph.D. students are guaranteed funding typically for five years. Financial Aid: Student Voices “The financial package that I was given by Princeton was unparalleled — it gave me momentum to follow my dreams.” Matthew Trotter ’22 “The financial package that I was given by Princeton was unparalleled — it gave me momentum to follow my dreams.” Matthew Trotter ’22 “There is always one person in their family who breaks the cycle of poverty. I am that person in my family.” Axidi Iglesias ’23 “I haven’t had anyone in my family that I could go to for counsel about college, but I think it’s a huge blessing that I could be the person who paves the way for a new standard where college is normal for the generations of family behind me.” Taraje Whitfield ’22 “I did not have to take out loans that would put my family in debt in order to attend Princeton. And that is major, because my parents are still paying off their own college debt.” Luz Victoria Simón Jasso ’24 “I initially expected that my college experience and my recruitment process would end up being something that I’d have to compromise on, but Princeton delivered so much more than I imagined.” Kyung Eun Lee ’25 “The greatest thing about Princeton is that if you need help, you’re going to receive it. And I don’t think I could say that if I went to a different school.” Nathnael Mengistie ’22 “Princeton gave me the option to actually be a student, to immerse myself in my work without having to juggle three jobs and worry constantly about paying for my tuition.” Emily Sanchez ’22 “It’s less expensive for me to go to Princeton than it was to go to my community college. Every time I think about that, I love to remind myself: I’m so grateful.” Vinny Wagner ’21 “I’m a lot more excited to graduate knowing that I’m not going to deal with student debt. It’s given me a lot more peace of mind and a lot more optimism for finding a career that I like.” Dayna Valek ’20 “Hopefully through the work that I’ve done here, and through the work that I’ll continue doing in the future, I’m impacting people in ways that I’ve never known, and extending my reach to people that I’ll never know. And there’s just something so beautiful about that.” Jordan Thomas ’18, Rhodes Scholar “The fellowship allows me to not worry about money and really be able to focus on my work and what I love, which is research.” Rachel Cristy *18, who as a philosophy PhD student held the Charlotte Elizabeth Procter Fellowship “Being here opened doors for me that I only dreamed of when I was in high school, and other things that I couldn’t even imagine, because I had no idea that they existed.” Adam Mastroianni ’14, a Rhodes Scholar and recipient of the Peckerman Scholarship, established in 1982 by Edward Peckerman Jr. ’25 and his widow, Kirsten Peckerman (pictured) Forward Together: The Impact of Annual Giving on Financial Aid Annual Giving Walking Together: The Impact of Annual Giving on Financial Aid A video demonstrates how that commitment to give back to the University makes it possible for high-achieving students to attend Princeton regardless of their socioeconomic background. A Signature Commitment to Affordability and Access Grants, Not Loans: 20 Years, More Than 10,000 Students From the PAW President’s Page: Princeton’s Visionary Financial Aid Program Princeton will significantly increase stipends to support graduate students Princeton University reaffirms commitment to ensuring a Princeton education is affordable for every student Princeton’s defining commitment to affordability could not be achieved without the exceptional generosity of our alumni, parents and friends. To see a list of funds currently providing scholarships and fellowships at Princeton, please contact the Office of Donor Relations. Request a List Thanks to You Thanks to You Annual Giving Annual Giving Gift Planning Gift Planning Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram