Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Onyx & Ruby Gala Onyx & Ruby right arrow down arrow ONYX &RUBY GALA ONYX & RUBY GALA The Onyx & Ruby Gala was created in 2007 to recognize the achievements of African American alumni, faculty and staff, and students at the University of Cincinnati. Since then, this elegant event has become one of the largest alumni-driven events for the UC Alumni Association, having grown each year of its existence. The UC African American Alumni Affiliate (4A) hosted the Onyx & Ruby Gala on Saturday, February 19 at The Graduate Cincinnati Hotel. After returning to being in person due to the pandemic, more than 270 alumni, students and friends attended to celebrate the contributions of our Bearcat family to our communities and alma mater. In addition to honoring the six awardees, the event raised more than $8,000 toward the Shani Scholarship, a fund to support underrepresented students in their pursuit of study abroad opportunities. Click on the 2022 honorees image below to view photos from the Onyx & Ruby Gala. This year's program booklet was digitized to allow those who were not able to participate the opportunity to experience a part of the event. Click on the image to view the program, and click on the links to support the event sponsors. Recognize excellence Join us as we recognize outstanding African American alumni, faculty/staff and students of the University of Cincinnati. Provide opportunities Funds raised at the Onyx & Ruby Gala support the UC Shani Scholarship. Created by the African American Alumni Affiliate, the Shani Scholarship supports underrepresented students by providing funds to study abroad. Celebrate UC Let’s strengthen the UC thread that binds us together. Recognize excellence Join us as we recognize outstanding African American alumni, faculty/staff and students of the University of Cincinnati. Provide opportunities Funds raised at the Onyx & Ruby Gala support the UC Shani Scholarship. Created by the African American Alumni Affiliate, the Shani Scholarship supports underrepresented students by providing funds to study abroad. Celebrate UC Let’s strengthen the UC thread that binds us together. 9th annual Onyx & Ruby Gala Date TBA, Feb. 2023 2022 Awardees View past Onyx and Ruby Gala award recipients. Stephanie A. Smith DAAP ’87 Georgia E. Beasley Legacy Award Recognizing the contributions of alumni 30 or more years removed from graduation who have made sacrifices, shared their experience and expertise, and enhanced the quality of life at UC and in the community. Stephanie Smith is Senior Vice president and Chief Inclusion and Diversity Officer for Fifth Third Bancorp. She is responsible for creating and leading corporate strategies that leverage innovative and dynamic tools that drive a more inclusive work environment that inspires employees, customers and community stakeholders. Previously Mrs. Smith had been Fifth Third’s Vice President and Director of Supplier Diversity, overseeing a 1300%+ increase in Fifth Third’s supplier diversity spend, and was influential in such 2018 highlights as Fifth Third being named one of “America’s Top Corporations” for women-owned companies by the Women’s Business Enterprise Council (WBENC); Fifth Third’s supplier diversity program being named by Minority Business Network magazine (MBN) as one of the years “Best of the Decade”; and herself being named one of the year’s “Top 25 Women in Power Impacting Diversity” by Diversity Plus Magazine. Mrs. Smith’s early career at Fifth Third included roles as an AVP and Mortgage Loan Underwriter with lending authority up to confirming limits, where she created the Good Neighbor loan product, and as a Financial Center Manager. Mrs. Smith earned her master’s degree in Urban Planning from the University of Cincinnati College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning. N. John Bey A&S ’04 Linda Bates Parker Legend Award Recognizing alumni for their professional accomplishments and active development of those around them. N. John Bey is the founder of Atlanta-based Bey & Associates. John was named a 2015 Rising Star, Super Lawyers Magazine, Top 100 Trial Lawyers and Top 40 under 40. He is a faculty member of the American Association for Justice National College of Advocacy and a graduate of the American Association for Justice’s Ultimate Trial Course at Harvard University’s Law School and the Gerry Spence Trial Lawyers College. He uses his personal success to support rising leaders in the legal field through mentorship and professional development. Mr. Bey attributes his experiences at UC as the driving force to help him succeed. While a student, he was a Student Orientation Leader, president of SACUB, a member of Sigma Sigma Men’s Honorary, and an Alpha Alpha chapter initiate of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. Mr. Bey lives in Atlanta with his wife, the Hon. Ardra Bey, an Atlanta Municipal Court judge, and their three children. LaVerne Summerlin Tower of Strength Award Recognizing a UC faculty or staff member for shaping students’ personal and professional development. LaVerne Summerlin has been a faculty member at the University of Cincinnati since 1970, teaching English and language arts in the College of Arts and Sciences, University College, and the Center for Access and Transition. Mrs. Summerlin earned her Bachelor of Arts in English at Edgecliff College, as well as a Master of Education in English from Xavier University. She is the recipient of over 20 educational and teaching awards, including the prestigious Dolly Cohen Award of Teaching Excellence and the National ACT Continuing Education Award for Oral Communications for the World-of-Work. Her work in the community extends to many civic organizations, including the Great Rivers Girl Scout Council; the Links, Inc. Reading and Writing Program for Inner City Youth; and the Adult Basic Education Advisory Committee for Cincinnati Public Schools. Rep. Reginald Bolding, Jr. CECH ’08 Pillar of the Community Award Recognizing alumni who support their communities by sharing their time, talents and treasure. Reginald (Reggie) Bolding, inspired by his single mom who worked two jobs, defied the odds to become a first-generation college graduate, Special Education math teacher, civic engagement champion and the House Democratic Leader in the Arizona House of Representatives. Rep. Bolding has dedicated his time in the state legislature to building diverse, non-partisan and bipartisan coalitions to fight for Arizona residents who are too often overlooked. Rep. Bolding led the advocacy charge and fought against egregious voter suppression legislation. He’s also spearheaded efforts to help police better serve and protect all Arizonans while being held accountable. A chance encounter with future President Barack Obama inspired Rep. Bolding to get involved in politics and service, becoming an organizer during the Obama campaign. His commitment to service continued with becoming a Special Education math teacher in one of Arizona’s most underserved neighborhoods. Rep. Bolding understands firsthand the obstacles and barriers faced by youth and families in these communities. In addition to serving as the House Democratic Leader, Rep. Bolding is the founder of the largest Black-led voting rights and community engagement organizations in the state. They are responsible for registering over 50,000 qualified people to vote, providing opportunities for thousands of young people to engage in politics, and helping deliver real changes for hardworking Arizonans and their families. Maurice Stewart A&S ’16 Emerging Leader Award Recognizing alumni from within the last decade who are rapidly becoming new leaders, with significant talents and contributions that actively enhance their communities and fields of endeavor. A native of Cincinnati, Maurice earned a Bachelor of Arts in Organizational Leadership at UC and has spent the past six years advocating for underserved communities. Maurice has worked with youth in organizations such as Cincinnati Youth Collaborative and Lighthouse Youth and Family Services where he served as a mentor. He has also worked with the community highlighting Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) and community resilience. Maurice is currently the Program Director at UpSpring, a local nonprofit serving the educational and enrichment needs of children experiencing homelessness. He previously worked at Interact for Health as the Conference and Education Manager assisting the capacity-building efforts of local nonprofits, and was Evening Operations Manager for Crowne Plaza Hotels. He was recognized as the 2019 Outstanding Young Alumnus from the UC College of Arts and Sciences. Maurice was also a member of the A&S Alumni Activity Board which serves the A&S Alumni Network in the development and planning of meaningful programming for A&S alumni across a variety of interest areas. Mr. Stewart serves a number of boards in Cincinnati. He also holds a Master of Science in Organizational Leadership with graduate certificates in Human Resource Management and Nonprofit Leadership from Southern New Hampshire University. Akua Wilson CECH ’22 Student Trailblazer Award Recognizing current UC students who embody leadership qualities, are extremely involved in the campus community, inspire their fellow students, and blaze the trail for ongoing progress. Akua Wilson, a native of Philadelphia, is a graduating senior who will be earning her degrees in Criminal Justice (CECH) and Women’s, Gender and Sexuality Studies (A&S). She has maintained a 3.8 grade point average and is in the University Honors Program. Her co-curricular activities include serving as president of the CECH Tribunal, board member for the Black Feminist Symposium, BASE Steering Committee, and the Omicron chapter of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. Ms. Wilson also has the distinction of being selected Miss Kuamka 2020. Her professional experience includes an internship in UC’s Center for Truth, Racial Healing & Transformation. Ms. Wilson is also the founder of Dissolving Division: Radical Empathy, which hosts an annual conference to provide radical empathy and equity training for students and community members. Upon graduation, she plans to attend law school and hopes to practice civil rights law. Red & Black Sponsors Bey & Associates Clever Crazes for Kids Gems for LaVerne Summerlin Interact for Health Jerome S. Jackson ’89 LifeCenter RiskVersity SURE Mechanical UC Black Faculty Association UC College of Arts and Sciences UC College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning UC College of Education, Criminal Justice, and Human Services UC Department of Public Safety UC Lindner College of Business UC Office of Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact UC Office of Undergraduate Admissions UpSpring Fountain of Eternal Youth Sponsors The Abercrumbie Group BlueSky Creative, Inc. Deatria T. Walker ’97, State Farm Insurance Double A Alumni Verity Healthcare, LLC Rock of Truth Sponsors Fifth Third Bank J. Phillip Holloman ’78 Patrons List Justin ’05 and Jami ’14 Gibson Anne McCarty ’91, ’97 Pamela McKoin ’77 Phyllis Spalding Wesley Spencer ’77 Theresa Staley ’72, ’84 Hotel rooms the Kingsgate Hotel have been reserved for those attendees who plan to stay overnight. Saturday evening rates are $129+tax for King and Double rooms. Click here to make your hotel reservation. Thank You to Our 2020 Onyx & Ruby Gala Sponsors Presenting Sponsor: UC Health Onyx & Ruby Sponsors: SURE Mechanical UC Black Faculty Association UC Office of Undergraduate Admissions Red & Black Sponsors: Jerome S. Jackson ’89 Profound Gentlemen, Inc. Riskversity UC College of Education, Criminal Justice and Human Services UC College of Law UC International UC Lindner College of Business Office of Inclusive Excellence UC Office of Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact Fountain of Eternal Youth Sponsor The Abercrumbie Group Rock of Truth Sponsor UC Division of Student Affairs Patrons: Justin ('05) and Jami ('12) Gibson University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top