Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month Pride Month UC Alumni Association » Inclusive Excellence Set Navigation title in component Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month Pride Month Inclusive Excellence The UC Alumni Association values unique backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives – welcoming and leveraging individual contributions to collaborate, create, innovate and compete in a global society. Encouraging a sense of belonging among our 327,000+ alumni world-wide, we aspire toward inclusive excellence by leading with courage and compassion, and treating each other with dignity and respect. Learn more about the experiences, volunteerism and stories of achievement that promote inclusion within our alumni community. February - Black History Month From the day in the early 1870s when William Parham enrolled in the law school at Cincinnati College (which would eventually become the University of Cincinnati) and became the institution’s first Black student, the African American experience at UC has been both extraordinarily challenging and extremely rewarding. In recognition of this ongoing journey, the indomitable spirit behind it, and the incredible contributions of the Black UC family over the past 150 years, the UC Alumni Association is proud to celebrate Black History Month. The UC Alumni Association plays an active role in helping to share and honor the Black UC story while connecting alumni to their alma mater. This work enriches their lives as Bearcats and helps foster an environment in which future generations of Black students and alumni might thrive. Learn More March - Women's History Month Ever since Winona Lee Hawthorne became the first female to earn a degree from the University of Cincinnati in 1878, women have built an impressive legacy as Bearcat students and alumnae. Today, women constitute the majority of each graduating class, and their achievements continue to elevate the institution, their communities and their chosen fields. For these reasons, the UC Alumni Association proudly marks Women’s History Month — celebrating the excellence of the past and present while eagerly anticipating the greatness that lies ahead. Learn More May - Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month From the inventor of the Pentium computer chip to one of the world’s premier sculptors, to the innovative coroner who helped create one of the country’s most technologically advanced crime labs, the University of Cincinnati has a rich tradition of achievement by our Asian, Asian-American and Pacific-American alumni. For this reason, the UC Alumni Association proudly marks Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month — celebrating generations of UC excellence reflected in our past and promised in our future. Learn More Nominate a Bearcat Nominate a Bearcat alumnus for a future heritage or awareness month alumni spotlight. Nominate University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top