Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Connect Your years as a Princeton student began something extraordinarily special: being Princeton alumni for life. There are many ways to connect through the Alumni Association community from TigerNet and social media to events, sponsored by the University and alumni groups. Go Find Your Friends TigerNet, Princeton’s online alumni community, provides you with a secure, password-protected location to connect with fellow Princetonians — along with a suite of volunteer tools. Connect On TigerNet Upcoming Events Connect to Online Events 2 June Academic Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Observing Color in the Everyday Online 8:00 PM EDT 4 June Academic Guided Tour of "Through A Glass Darkly: Alchemy and the Ripley Scrolls 1400-1700" Firestone Library 1:00 PM EDT 9 June Amor Mundi: Paintings by Cathy Nan Quinlan, Cecilia Whittaker-Doe and Rachel Youens Lewis Arts Complex 12:00 PM EDT Connect to Online Events 9/11 Service of Remembrance An interfaith service to remember the 14 Princetonians who perished in the September 11 attacks was held Saturday, September 11 at 10 a.m. at the 9/11 Memorial Garden, located between Nassau Hall and Chancellor Green. This year’s event commemorated the 20th anniversary of the tragic events. Learn more about the service Connect in Your Region of the World Wherever you are around the globe, there are fellow Princeton alumni — and regional associations are nearby to help you connect, celebrate, cheer, learn and grow. Make new friends, compete for craziest orange and black attire, find ways to serve together in your community and enrich your Princeton network! (Note: some gatherings included here occurred pre-pandemic.) Wherever you are around the globe, there are fellow Princeton alumni — and regional associations are nearby to help you connect, celebrate, cheer, learn and grow. Make new friends, compete for craziest orange and black attire, find ways to serve together in your community and enrich your Princeton network! (Note: some gatherings included here occurred pre-pandemic.) Cooking Demo: Making dumplings with Princeton Association of New York. Game On: Princeton Area Women’s Network attends a women's basketball game. Watch Party: Princeton Club of St. Louis has paws up for the Princeton Dartmouth game. Clean and Green: Princeton Club of Japan organizes a river clean-up. Dinner Party: Princeton Alumni Association of Canada Toronto gathers for a formal event. Achievement: Princeton Club of San Diego receives an award for regional associations. Discuss: Princeton Prize in Race Relations holds a Zoom symposium with students. Show Time: Princeton Association of New York City attends a Trevor Noah show. Book Club: The Princeton Club of Northern California, the Asian American Alumni Association of Princeton (A4P), the Princeton Association of NYC, and the Harvard Asian Alumni Alliance (H4A) collaboratively sponsor a virtual discussion with Helen Zia ’73, famed author and activist. Thriving: Association of Black Princeton Alumni (ABPA) reconnect in Los Angeles after the Thrive conference. Welcome: Princeton Club of Southern California connects via Zoom with Class of 2024 students admitted to Princeton. Pre-Read: Princeton Club of Washington gets together to discuss the 2020 Pre-Read. Growing: Princeton Women’s Network of Atlanta plants trees. Goin’ Back Virtually Thank you for attending Reunions Online and for celebrating the Best Place of All. Connect with Reunions Online Connect to Learning and Exploration Plan Future Journeys Take a Staycation Join the Conversation #Princeton275 #TigersRising Skip social media feed The Alumni Association Connect with Alumni Volunteer Ways to Serve Give Make an Impact Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram