Skip to main content ncstate-alumni-wolf-web Alumni Association Menu Close About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Volunteer facebook twitter linked in email About About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine NC State Magazine Merchandise Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Volunteer Make a difference Dedicated NC State alumni play a pivotal role in the Alumni Association’s success and help build relationships with fellow Wolfpackers in meaningful ways. We offer volunteers opportunities to stay involved with the university and fellow alumni. The volunteer toolkit is for our alumni network leaders of the Alumni Association. We hope you find this toolkit useful as a reference for starting and maintaining an active alumni network. Learn more about being an alumni network leader. What is an alumni network? Alumni networks connect graduates and friends to NC State by engaging them through events that foster pride and create a lifelong connection to the university. The Alumni Association supports regional networks within the state, across the country and even internationally. Networks provide a community where relationships can grow into strong common bonds. Alumni networks are open to NC State alumni, parents, friends, fans and students. The purpose of an alumni network is to: Promote NC State pride and traditions Support the mission of both NC State and its Alumni Association Organize events and programs to bring alumni together Increase membership in the Alumni Association What Networks Offer Networks connect alumni to one another based on geographic location. Many networks offer a wide range of programming that includes cultural, academic, athletic and recreational activities. The engagement team will work with each network to help get their events set up, publicized and executed. Learn more about how our networks engage alumni. Why form a network? Alumni networks exist to provide a tangible link to NC State and to establish a mutually beneficial relationship between the university and its alumni. The Alumni Association supports both geographical and constituency-based alumni groups. Interested in volunteering? If you’re interested in serving as a network volunteer leader, please fill out our Network Volunteer Interest Form. Once the form has been filled out, we’ll connect you with an engagement team member who will evaluate your request and contact you with next steps. Contact Information For questions, contact Associate Director of Alumni Engagement Melissa Shampine ’07 at 919.515.0530 or melissa_shampine@ncsu.edu. For regional networks inside the state of North Carolina, contact Assistant Director of Regional Engagement Andrea Sellers at andrea_sellers@ncsu.edu. For regional networks outside of North Carolina, contact Associate Director of Alumni Engagement Melissa Shampine at melissa_shampine@ncsu.edu. For constituency groups, contact Program Coordinator of Alumni Engagement Nikki Bell at nikki_bell@ncsu.edu. For assistance with events already set up or game watches, contact Program Coordinator of Alumni Engagement Nikki Bell at nikki_bell@ncsu.edu. Alumni Association Home Campus Box 7503 NC State University Raleigh NC 27695-7503 919.515.3375 Campus Map About Membership Events Engagement News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.