Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Featured Breadcrumb Home All News All News Sub Navigation In This Section News & Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories 39 Results based on your selections. Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center May 25, 2022 Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 Read Article Open details for Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art News from Brown Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future April 30, 2022 Members of the Warren Alpert Medical School community, including graduates from classes ranging from 1972 to 2022, gathered to commemorate the history and look to the future of Rhode Island’s first and only medical school. Read Article Open details for Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President & Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 April 28, 2022 By helping educators access crucial information resources, Hintermeister taps into passions she discovered as a Brown undergrad: sharing knowledge and giving back. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President &amp; Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 Alumni & Friends 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day April 14, 2022 Want to help make this Brunonians Pay It Forward Day our biggest yet? Here’s how you can get involved and spread the word about this giving day. Read Article Open details for 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day Alumni & Friends Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 April 3, 2022 This year’s giving day saw the Brown community help raise more than $2.6 million for the Brown Annual Fund. Read Article Open details for Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Film Exec Nina Jacobson ’87, P’23 March 29, 2022 A lifelong commitment to creative storytelling—and a desire for equal representation in the film industry—has shaped the successful Hollywood career of this former semiotics concentrator. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Film Exec Nina Jacobson ’87, P’23 Alumni & Friends Upping our game March 25, 2022 BrownTogether has already helped elevate Brown’s Division of Athletics and Recreation. M. Grace Calhoun ’92, the division’s new vice president, is determined to keep the momentum going. Read Article Open details for Upping our game Alumni & Friends What’s next for BrownTogether? March 25, 2022 We’re now heading toward $4 billion. See where the next phase of BrownTogether will take us. Read Article Open details for What’s next for BrownTogether? Alumni & Friends One campus, a world of possibilities March 25, 2022 With further investments in financial aid, BrownTogether aims to make need-blind admission for international students a reality. Read Article Open details for One campus, a world of possibilities Alumni & Friends Anticipation, joy, relief. Match Day is in the books! March 21, 2022 Members of Brown’s MD Class of 2022 celebrated the start of the next phase of their medical careers as they discovered where they have been matched for residencies. Read Article Open details for Anticipation, joy, relief. Match Day is in the books! Alumni & Friends 10 alumnae bring Brown women’s history to life March 18, 2022 Tap into the rich history of women at Brown through these fascinating excerpts selected from the Pembroke Center’s Oral History Project. Read Article Open details for 10 alumnae bring Brown women’s history to life News from Brown Class of 2009 graduate Zack Langway to lead alumni relations at Brown March 8, 2022 With professional accomplishments in community building and more than a decade of volunteer leadership with Brown, Langway will return to College Hill to lead efforts to cultivate and sustain strong alumni relationships. Read Article Open details for Class of 2009 graduate Zack Langway to lead alumni relations at Brown Alumni & Friends Jennifer Gomez ’08: Founder and Tech Entrepreneur March 4, 2022 In this episode of the Women’s Voices Amplified podcast, Gomez discusses her unintentional path to leadership, being the only woman of color in certain spaces, trusting herself fully, and the importance of community. Read Article Open details for Jennifer Gomez ’08: Founder and Tech Entrepreneur Alumni & Friends $4B: BrownTogether campaign extended March 1, 2022 With its new $4 billion goal, the campaign will continue through 2024—raising funds for research and teaching in medicine, public health, engineering and the arts, as well as student financial aid, career services and Brown Athletics. Read Article Open details for $4B: BrownTogether campaign extended News from Brown Brown is nation’s top Fulbright-producing university, U.S. State Department data shows February 28, 2022 With 29 grants offered to students and recent alumni for the 2021-22 academic year, Brown earned the No. 1 spot as the country’s top producer of Fulbright winners, marking the fourth time the University earned the distinction. Read Article Open details for Brown is nation’s top Fulbright-producing university, U.S. State Department data shows Alumni & Friends Caring for women both near and far February 14, 2022 Dr. Methodius Tuuli has been serving as the chair of obstetrics and gynecology at The Warren Alpert Medical School for about a year. He is definitely in the right place at the right time. Read Article Open details for Caring for women both near and far Alumni & Friends 9 Brown love stories that will warm your heart February 11, 2022 Celebrate true love this Valentine’s Day with sweet stories of Brunonians finding their “one and only” on College Hill. Read Article Open details for 9 Brown love stories that will warm your heart Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Marketing Maven Ivon Rodriguez ’00 EMBA’16 February 10, 2022 From broadcast media to museums to fintech, Ivon Rodriguez has carried the “think outside the box” approach from Brown into every industry she touches. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Marketing Maven Ivon Rodriguez ’00 EMBA’16 Alumni & Friends WATCH | Empowering Change: An Evening of Conversation & Learning with Professors Bogues, Rose & Provost Locke February 7, 2022 At this special event, leading Brown scholars illuminated their work and fielded questions from the alumni community about the persistence of racial inequality and the legacies of slavery. Read Article Open details for WATCH | Empowering Change: An Evening of Conversation &amp; Learning with Professors Bogues, Rose &amp; Provost Locke Alumni & Friends The best medicine? Paying it forward January 13, 2022 Through their volunteer work, Brown medical alumni are giving back to where it all began and supporting the next generation of Brown physicians. Read Article Open details for The best medicine? Paying it forward Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Volunteer & Advocate Max Clermont ’11 MPH’12 January 13, 2022 Drawn to public service efforts, Clermont also continues to serve his alma mater as a champion and advocate for Brown’s volunteer efforts. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Volunteer &amp; Advocate Max Clermont ’11 MPH’12 Alumni & Friends 6 Takeaways from Women in Washington: Leading in Times of Crisis December 15, 2021 On December 9, 2021, the Brown Women’s Network welcomed two senior leaders in the Biden administration to discuss the evolving role of women in Washington and what it means to lead in times of uncertainty. Read Article Open details for 6 Takeaways from Women in Washington: Leading in Times of Crisis Alumni & Friends 10 Brunonians who embody BrownTogether December 10, 2021 From researchers to recent grads, discover the people who illustrate the heart of Brown’s most ambitious campaign. Read Article Open details for 10 Brunonians who embody BrownTogether Alumni & Friends This is what $3 billion looks like December 9, 2021 How did BrownTogether reach $3 billion? What does it mean for Brown? We’ll let the numbers tell the story. Read Article Open details for This is what $3 billion looks like Alumni & Friends $25 million gift to Brown to accelerate discovery at renamed Legorreta Cancer Center December 9, 2021 Generous support from the Legorreta family will propel plans for a world-class, nationally designated cancer center at Brown that will turn basic science into treatments for patients in Rhode Island and beyond. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift to Brown to accelerate discovery at renamed Legorreta Cancer Center Alumni & Friends Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign November 2, 2021 Having reached its target more than a year ahead of schedule, the University will continue raising funds for student scholarships and faculty research, while establishing new goals in the months to come. Read Article Open details for Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign Alumni & Friends Breaking new ground in the battle against Alzheimer's October 18, 2021 Early detection. Personalized treatments. Collaborative care. The Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research is positioning Brown to improve patient outcomes now and in the future. Read Article Open details for Breaking new ground in the battle against Alzheimer&#039;s Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Communications Strategist Zack Langway ’09 October 15, 2021 One Brown alum is bringing a sense of community to his work in nonprofit and corporate communications. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Communications Strategist Zack Langway ’09 Alumni & Friends Giving Tuesday 2021 | November 30 October 11, 2021 Brunonians from across the globe came together to support the people, programs, and promise of Brown. Read Article Open details for Giving Tuesday 2021 | November 30 Alumni & Friends What it means to wear the white coat September 22, 2021 Brown welcomes its newest class of medical students with its annual white coat ceremony. Read Article Open details for What it means to wear the white coat Alumni & Friends Foundation and corporate grants accelerate research at Brown September 22, 2021 The past year was particularly successful for faculty working alongside Brown Advancement’s Corporate and Foundation Relations team, with more than $26 million in grants awarded to support promising projects in a range of disciplines. Read Article Open details for Foundation and corporate grants accelerate research at Brown Alumni & Friends Celebrating five years of Brown’s hub for entrepreneurship September 22, 2021 Launched in 2016, the Nelson Center is championing “the Brown way” of entrepreneurship: combining learning, research, and practice to support students in realizing their next big idea. Read Article Open details for Celebrating five years of Brown’s hub for entrepreneurship Alumni & Friends A parent’s love, a lasting legacy September 22, 2021 Through her daughter, Cristina García P’14 saw firsthand the power of a Brown education. Through her planned gift, she hopes to give other Latinx families the same experience. Read Article Open details for A parent’s love, a lasting legacy Alumni & Friends Health care and haircuts: Bringing preventative measures to the neighborhood August 11, 2021 In her mission for more equitable health care, Dr. Marshala Lee MD’11 is using every tool she can: mentoring students, educating patients, even training local barbers. Read Article Open details for Health care and haircuts: Bringing preventative measures to the neighborhood Alumni & Friends The ripple effect of the Brown alumni community August 10, 2021 Alumni volunteer leaders explore how a Brown education reverberates into the world at large. Read Article Open details for The ripple effect of the Brown alumni community News from Brown $20 million in new giving marks growing support for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives at Brown February 26, 2021 With continued momentum in support of Brown’s diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, new BrownTogether gifts and grants are catalyzing research on race and inequity, and supporting students from underrepresented groups. Read Article Open details for $20 million in new giving marks growing support for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives at Brown News from Brown Virtual summer institute connects Brown undergraduates with vast network of alumni and parent mentors July 15, 2020 Through the BrownConnect Summer Institute, University alumni and parents provide professional experiences and mentorship to current students and newly minted graduates interested in a wide range of fields. Read Article Open details for Virtual summer institute connects Brown undergraduates with vast network of alumni and parent mentors Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Featured Open details for Featured Bookmark this Page