Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College College Seniors College Graduation Events Commencement Week information for the College Class of 2022 Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors 2022 Class Committee Graduation Events Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Event Schedule Entry Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Life Information Commencement Week Schedule for Students and Families/Guests See the Frequently Asked Questions section below for information about how seniors will obtain tickets to Commencement Week events at Senior Desk. Class of 2022, you can also view this digital keepsake book with information about Senior Week, Commencement Week, and alumni life. Tuesday, May 24 11:00 AM–12:30 PM Phi Beta Kappa Literary Exercises Sanders Theatre, Memorial Hall (Open to the public; tickets not required). A traditional part of Harvard Commencement since the 18th century, the Literary Exercises celebrate the humane learning and passion for intellectual exchange that are the ideal and hallmark of the chapter. PBK seniors should wear their regalia. 1:30–2:00 PM Baccalaureate Procession Old Yard, Harvard Yard (graduating seniors march in the procession; guests welcome to observe). Tickets not required. President Bacow will lead the Class of 2022 in a procession around the Old Yard into Tercentenary Theatre for the Baccalaureate Service. Graduating seniors should wear their regalia. Seniors should arrive by 1:30. The procession will begin at the corner of Holworthy and Thayer, and the line will extend back along Holworthy, Stoughton, Hollis, and Matthews. Once the procession begins, the class will pass in front of Thayer and University Hall, then enter Tercentenary Theatre between University Hall and Weld. From there, the line will process to Widener Library steps, and then down the middle aisle of the seating in Tercentenary Theatre before moving to the seats at the front of the Theatre closest to Memorial Church. 2:00–3:30 PM Baccalaureate Service Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard Yard. Tickets not required. President Bacow will share remarks with the Class of 2022 and students will share sacred readings from their religious, spiritual, and ethical traditions. Graduating seniors should wear their regalia. 3:30–4:00 PM Class of 2022 Photograph Widener Library Steps. Tickets not required. Rain date: Wednesday, May 25, immediately following the Class Day Exercises. Graduating seniors should wear their regalia. Order the Class Photograph. 5:00–6:30 PM Class of 2022 Family Reception Science Center Plaza. Enjoy a reception with food and drink for graduating seniors and their families and guests. Tickets required. Graduating seniors are allotted three free tickets and will require one of these tickets for themselves. Additional tickets will be available for free. Tickets are obtained by seniors at Senior Desk (see below). Seniors and guests should enter the Plaza at Meyer Gate (the gate between Harvard Yard and the Science Center Plaza) or at the corner of Oxford and Kirkland streets. Guests should be prepared to give their tickets to staff, who will give them a wristband for entry. 8:00–10:00 PM Harvard University Band and Harvard Choruses Concert Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard Yard. Tickets not required. Featuring student performers, this annual concert is open to all members of the Harvard community. Wednesday, May 25 11:00 AM–Noon ROTC Commissioning Ceremony Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard Yard. Tickets not required. This ceremony celebrates the commissioning of the new military officers from the College's ROTC contingent. Noon–2:00 PM Class Day Picnic Old Yard, Harvard Yard. Enjoy a casual bagged lunch before the start of the Class Day Exercises. Tickets required. Graduating seniors are allotted three free tickets and will require one of these tickets for themselves. Additional tickets can be purchased for $15. Tickets are obtained by seniors at Senior Desk (see below). Guests should be prepared to give their tickets to the staff in exchange for a bagged lunch. 2:00–4:00 PM Class Day Exercises Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard Yard. Where Commencement is a University-wide program, Class Day celebrates the graduating College Class of 2022 and includes the featured Class Day speaker invited by the Class, the Harvard and Ivy Orations, the presentation of the Ames Awards, and the Class Ode. Will also feature remarks from Rakesh Khurana, Dean of Harvard College and Allyson Mendenhall, incoming President of the Harvard Alumni Association. Tickets required. Graduating seniors are allotted three free tickets and will require one of these tickets for themselves. Additional tickets will be available for free. Tickets are obtained by seniors at Senior Desk (see below). More information about entry requirements for Tercentenary Theatre is below. The Old Yard will be open on Class Day, but Tercentenary Theatre will be gated, and a Class Day Exercises ticket will be required for entry. There will be five entry locations: between Thayer and University Hall, between University Hall and Weld, two lines between Weld and Widener Library, and between Widener Library and Pusey Library. 4:00–5:00 PM Dudley Community Reception Dean O'Dair's Residence. Tickets not required. 5:00–6:30 PM Faculty Deans' Receptions Undergraduate Houses. Tickets not required. 5:00–9:00 PM Senior Letterwinners' Dinner Bright-Landry Hockey Center. Tickets required. Senior student-athletes are free. For more info: harvardvarsityclub.org/SLD. Thursday, May 26 6:45 AM Harvard Yard Gates Open 8:00–8:15 AM Senior Address Science Center Plaza Tent. For graduating seniors only. Graduating seniors should wear their regalia. 9:30 AM–Noon Commencement for the Class of 2022 Celebrating the achievements of all Harvard University graduates, this program features remarks from students, the conferring of student degrees, the presentation of honorary degrees, and an address by the Commencement Speaker. Tickets are required. Graduating seniors are allotted up to four free tickets for guests (they will not need a ticket for themselves); additional tickets are not available. Indoor viewing is available via live web stream in the Science Center, the Smith Campus Center, and most undergraduate Houses, and the program will also be streamed online at harvard.edu/live. More information can be found at commencement.harvard.edu/ morning-exercises. Academic regalia, lanyard (to be distributed at Houses), and HUID allow entry for graduates. Tickets are obtained by seniors at Senior Desk (see below). More information about entry requirements for Harvard Yard and Tercentenary Theatre is below. Noon–2:30 PM Diploma Presentation and Luncheon Undergraduate Houses. Tickets are not required to view the diploma ceremony but are required to partake in the lunch that occurs during this time. Graduating seniors should wear their regalia. Graduating seniors are allotted three free tickets for lunch and will require one of these tickets for themselves. Additional tickets can be purchased for $18. Tickets are obtained by seniors at Senior Desk (see below). Back to Top Commencement Week Entry Requirements COVID-19 Information: By registering for this event, you and your guests agree to: Abide by all state, local, and University COVID-19 guidelines and protocols in place at the time you come to campus. Acknowledge the evolving nature of current protocols and agree to read all communications from the University sent in advance of this event to ensure you are up to date on the current policies and protocols. Understand that the University strongly encourages all guests to be fully vaccinated and boosted (if eligible) and if unvaccinated to complete a COVID-19 (PCR or antigen) test before arriving on campus. Acknowledge that a limited number of events may be hosted in venues that require proof of vaccination or a negative COVID-19 test (PCR or antigen). Not to come to campus if you/your guests are exhibiting symptoms, have been diagnosed with COVID-19, or have otherwise been instructed to quarantine or isolate. Report immediately to the designated COVID-19 resource team member if you or one of your guests become symptomatic or test positive while on campus. All Commencement Week events are held rain or shine. In the case of inclement weather, alternate plans will be communicated to the students. The health and safety of our community, including these graduates, is paramount. The University will continue to actively monitor public health conditions, but we are confident we can safely celebrate by following COVID protocols. If conditions require adjustments to the details below, we will update students at commencement.harvard.edu. All persons, bags, and personal items are subject to inspection before entering Commencement Week events. Backpacks, luggage, and any bag or item larger than 12" x 12" x 12" will not be permitted inside Commencement Week events. Strollers are not permitted inside Tercentenary Theatre on Commencement Day. Strollers are permitted into Harvard Yard but must remain in the Old Yard within the overflow viewing area only, without exception. Tickets to the Class Day Exercises and Commencement Exercises allow admission into Harvard Yard but do not guarantee seats. Seats cannot be reserved and are available on a first-come, first-served basis. The sale of tickets for the Class Day Exercises and Commencement Exercises is strictly prohibited. Students who attempt to sell tickets may be referred to the Office of Academic Integrity and Student Conduct. Back to Top Frequently Asked Questions and More Commencement Week Information How and when can tickets be obtained? Tickets for the Family Reception, Class Day Picnic, Class Day Exercises, Commencement, and House Luncheon are obtained by graduating seniors only at Senior Desk. Graduating seniors must first complete the online senior exit survey, titled “Senior Survey,” before they pick up their Commencement Week tickets at Senior Desk. Graduating seniors will receive an email containing a URL to access the survey, which opens on May 6. The survey may take up to 24 hours to process, so please wait until the next business day before picking up tickets. Each senior must pick up their own tickets in person (no pickups for others) and will need to bring their Harvard ID with them. No tickets (allotted, free, or purchased) will be available onsite at Commencement Week events. Seniors will be able to pick up their standard ticket packet, request any additional free tickets, and purchase any additional tickets that have a cost. Credit or debit card payments are accepted. Senior Desk is located at the Harvard Alumni Association at 124 Mount Auburn Street, 6th Floor. It will be open weekdays from May 9–May 25 from 11:00 a.m.–3:00 p.m. May 9: Adams, Lowell, and Quincy May 10: Cabot, Currier, Dudley, and Pforzheimer May 11: Dunster, Leverett, and Mather May 12: Eliot, Kirkland, and Winthrop May 13–25 (weekdays): Students from all Houses can come to any of the remaining days. For a summary of information, view this poster. What is the attire for Commencement Week activities? Business casual attire is appropriate for all Commencement Week activities. Are accommodations available? There are a number of hotels in and around Harvard Square and the Cambridge area, including some accessible via the MBTA Red Line. Please plan to book early as hotels will quickly fill up. Unfortunately, courtesy rates at hotels are not available. Please visit the University Commencement website for more information. At which events is regalia (cap and gown) required? Regalia is required for the Phi Beta Kappa (PBK) Literary Exercises (for PBK seniors), Baccalaureate Procession and Service, and the Class of 2022 photograph on Tuesday, May 24, and for the Commencement Exercises and the Diploma Presentation ceremonies on Thursday, May 26. How can seniors purchase regalia? Regalia for Harvard College Seniors is available for pickup May 19 to May 26 at The Harvard Coop, Harvard Square location. No reservations are needed for the Harvard College senior regalia. Seniors should go to The Coop May 19 to May 26 to purchase their regalia. Visit www.thecoop.com for store hours. The Coop is also open early on Commencement Day (beginning at 6:15 a.m. on Thursday, May 26). The regalia fee is $50 for seniors; dual AB/AM candidates will have an additional fee for the master hood (cash, credit card, and Crimson Cash are accepted). Please email customerservice@thecoop.com if you have regalia questions or request special sizing accommodation. Where can I find information about accessibility for guests with disabilities? Harvard University welcomes all guests on Commencement Day! In Tercentenary Theatre, accommodations for individuals with disabilities may include, but are not limited to, accessible seating, wheelchair loan, Assistive Listening Devices, American Sign Language, and alternate program formats, including Braille, large font, and accessible digital files. Accommodations are available by request; see below for more information. Guests are encouraged to arrive early (gates open at 6:45 a.m.), and there will be staff at the entry gates to Harvard Yard providing courtesy wheelchair transportation for all guests from the gate to guest seating in Tercentenary Theatre. First aid stations and wheelchair-accessible restrooms are located in Sever, Weld, and Thayer Halls in Harvard Yard. If you have questions about accommodations and the physical access provided for other commencement activities, please call the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) at 617-496-7001 or email haa_collegealumniprograms@harvard.edu. For information about accessible parking and transportation, please visit commencement.harvard.edu/ guests-disabilities. Commencement Accessible Seating Details: The accessible seating section during the Thursday morning Commencement program in Tercentenary Theatre is located adjacent to University Hall and will be clearly marked with the International Symbol of Access (a figure in a wheelchair). Graduating seniors will be able to exchange a certain number of their general admission guest tickets for accessible seating tickets at Senior Desk in May. More details about Senior Desk (including location and timing) will be shared with seniors later this spring. One companion accessible seating ticket is available to each guest in the accessible section (also as a replacement for a general admission ticket; the total number of guest tickets will still be four); however, when space is available, best efforts will be made to seat a limited number of additional guests (with general admission tickets and not accessible seating tickets) with the understanding that they may need to relocate if an accessible seating ticket holder needs the space. For the Class Day Exercises on Wednesday, there will not be an accessible seating section due to ample seating. Additional accommodations are available by request. For additional requests for accommodations, please email the University Disability Resources office at disabilityresources@harvard.edu or call 617-495-1859. What if family or friends from overseas require a visa? Family and friends visiting the U.S. will most likely need to apply for a visitor visa. The process to apply for a visitor visa may vary widely by region and country. This process could take a long time to complete, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic. We advise that you start the application process as early as possible. For general information, you can visit hio.harvard.edu/b-visa. Individuals will need to contact the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in their home countries for specific instructions on the visa application process and processing times. If family members or friends require invitation letters for this process, students should reach out directly to their Allston Burr Resident Dean, whose contact information can be found at this page. Is parking available during Commencement Week? For the Class of 2022 Family Reception, complimentary parking is available at the 52 Oxford Street Garage on a first-come, first-served basis. On Class Day and Commencement Day, complimentary parking is available on campus in Allston on a first-come, first-served basis. For more information, visit the Harvard Transportation & Parking office at transportation.harvard.edu/parking. Do children need tickets to events? All children—except for infants under the age of one—require tickets for all events except for the Class Day Picnic. For the Class Day Picnic, a ticket is required for each bagged lunch. Will Commencement Week events be available for online viewing? The Class Day Exercises and Commencement Exercises will be streamed online at harvard.edu/live. How do seniors and families get a copy of the 2022 Harvard College Yearbook? To order the Class of 2022 Harvard Yearbook, visit harvardyearbook.com/purchase. If there are any questions about the Yearbook, please email inquiries@harvardyearbook.com. How do seniors and families order the class photograph? Orders can be placed online. Students can also pick up an order form at the time the photograph is taken. The cost is $35 for the color photograph, $40 for the laminated photograph, and $135 framed, plus shipping and tax (where applicable). Discounted pricing is available until May 31 for orders placed online. Where can seniors and families order graduation-related merchandise? The Coop offers personalized graduation announcements and the largest selection of diploma frames with the Harvard Seal, class rings, and Class of 2022 apparel and gifts. The Coop hosts a Grad Fair in the spring that offers great discounts on diploma frames and class rings. Students are encouraged to stay connected and visit the Coop in person or online at store.thecoop.com in early 2022 for the Grad Fair dates and to view the selections. The Harvard Shop provides personalized graduation announcements. For more information and to order, visit balfour.com/harvard or call 800-433-0296. Contact Rory Pan, managing director of the Harvard Shop, at rory.pan@hsa.net with any questions. The Harvard Shop also offers rings. To view rings for sale, visit the Harvard Shop at 65 Mount Auburn Street from 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, May 25, through Friday, May 27. Balfour representatives will be on hand to help order rings and to offer free sizing services. When do seniors have to vacate their rooms? All seniors must move out of their rooms by 5:00 p.m. on Friday, May 27. Back to Top Alumni Life Information All Harvard undergraduates and graduates are members of the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA), a dues-free organization. The HAA offers a wealth of opportunities to stay connected to Harvard and its alumni community, as well as excellent alumni benefits, including social, educational, and networking events; online learning; volunteer opportunities; and travel-study trips. The Real World: HAA Alumni Life Orientation session includes information about the HAA, the Class of 2022, Senior Week (and tickets), Commencement Week (and Senior Desk) and alumni life. Class of 2022 and Class volunteer Opportunities Class of 2022, your class is the heart of your alumni activity. After graduation, your class will have a Reunion every five years. Between Reunion years, your Class or others may sponsor social events in Cambridge, around the world, and online. We encourage you to participate and take advantage of these resources. Remember to visit the class website at harvard2022.org for updated information specific to your Class. The 2022 Class Committee will continue to guide and support your Class in alumni life. You can support their efforts by volunteering to be an activities chair! Activities chairs are College alumni volunteers who support their Class Committees and bring classmates and alumni from surrounding classes together in their post-grad cities and regions, serving as key players in keeping College alumni connected to each other. In a Reunion year (every five years), you can volunteer on your Reunion Committee. Harvard Alumni Community Log in to the HAA Alumni Directory with your HarvardKey and update your profile to connect with fellow alumni. Your HarvardKey does not change after you graduate. Through community.alumni.harvard.edu/person, you can update your address and other biographical information and connect with alumni from across the College and University. It is important to keep your information current to receive news, events, programs, and special announcements specific to where you live. College Alumni Programs Office The College Alumni Programs office of the HAA serves more than 100,000 Harvard and Radcliffe College alumni. The office oversees and develops programming to preserve and maintain Harvard traditions and to create new opportunities to connect members of the Harvard community with one another and with the University. Visit alumni.harvard.edu/college for details. Alumni Programs & Events Learning opportunities at Harvard don’t end just because you have a degree. We invite you to take part in a variety of learning and social experiences designed to keep alumni connected with the intellectual life of the University—and to one another. These include career networking opportunities, tours at Harvard’s world-renowned museums, conversations with University leaders and administrators, and faculty lectures on everything from health care to space exploration to public service. Programs led by the HAA are in addition to the thousands of programs led by our extensive Club and Shared Interest Group networks. Alumni events are held online, on campus, and all over the world. For information on current programs, visit alumni.harvard.edu/programs-events. Harvard Clubs Stretching from South Africa to Norway, Argentina to Japan, there are nearly 250 Harvard Clubs and regional alumni communities worldwide eager to welcome recent graduates. Harvard Clubs provide great opportunities to meet new friends, expand your Harvard network across years and Schools, and stay connected to the University, often including targeted recent grad events amongst broad slates of alumni offerings including social, cultural, and community service activities. Many clubs are dues-free, and many more offer free or reduced dues for recent graduates. Please note that the Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York City have unique membership processes. For a full list of Harvard Clubs and regional alumni communities, including contact information, visit alumni.harvard.edu/clubs-directory. Harvard Alumni Association Shared Interest Groups Are you interested in connecting with fellow recent graduates and other Harvard alumni around a shared identity, avocation, or professional interest? Would you like to find other alumni who share your interests or cultural pursuits? Are you looking to build community? HAA Shared Interest Groups connect thousands of alumni around the world to one another and to the University through a wide range of programs, events, communications, and service projects. Examples include First Generation Harvard Alumni, Harvard Alumni in Tech, Harvard Black Alumni Society, and Harvard Alumni for Global Women’s Empowerment. For a full list of HAA Shared Interest Groups, including contact information, visit alumni.harvard.edu/sigs-directory. Alumni Travel From the turquoise glaciers of Antarctica to the breathtaking landscapes of Vietnam, travel with Harvard Alumni Travels to learn about and explore destinations across every continent. With over 50 trips annually, travel in the company of Harvard faculty, expert local guides, and fellow alumni from across the University. Options for all experience and activity levels, from traditional programs to off-the-beaten-path adventures. Join us in embracing this magnificent world and sites that bring us together. For information on trips and virtual programming, visit alumni.harvard.edu/travel. Career Resources As a recent graduate of Harvard College, you continue to have access to the Office of Career Services, including Crimson Careers and Firsthand Advisers. We also encourage you to use these platforms to post opportunities for and mentor students in the future. Visit ocs.fas.harvard.edu/alumni-connect-students. The HAA also has a collection of career-related resources, including webinars led by alumni. To learn more, please visit alumni.harvard.edu/community/careers-networking. Email Newsletters Stay informed on news and events across Harvard through the various alumni newsletters. Read Harvard Alumni News for a monthly snapshot of the latest University-wide updates or take a peek at what the College and fellow alumni are up to in College Alumni News. If you’re looking to further connect with the University community or local alumni, get a glimpse of the different events and programs being held by alumni for alumni in Harvard this Week. Harvard Gazette The Harvard Gazette is the official news website for Harvard University. It covers important campus community updates; University announcements; innovations in research across science, medicine, politics, global affairs, and more; and it is also a hub for stories from University affiliates. After you graduate, you will continue to receive emails from the Harvard Gazette with the latest news. You can dive in further by visiting news.harvard.edu/gazette. Harvard Magazine Harvard Magazine is published six times a year. Submit a personal update via harvardmagazine.com/classnotes/submit to see your news published in the Class Notes section of the magazine. To receive the July–August 2022 issue of Harvard Magazine, which will include coverage of your Commencement, please be sure your address is up to date by visiting community.alumni.harvard.edu/person. Class of 2022 copies will be mailed in the last week of June. For more information about Harvard Magazine, visit harvardmagazine.com. Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Membership: Pay your year! Members of the Harvard College Class of 2022 can purchase a one-year Dual Membership for only $22. That’s a $63 discount! The Dual membership will provide benefits to you and a friend. It includes unlimited admission for two to the Harvard Museum of Natural History and the Peabody Museum of Archaeology & Ethnology. Members are invited to free, exclusive events and receive discounts on classes, programs, and shop purchases. In addition, you will gain free admission to the Harvard Art Museums and to museums and science centers worldwide through the Association of Science & Technology Centers (ASTC) Passport Program, excluding museums within a 90-mile radius of HMSC museums. Take advantage of this offer by providing your contact information on this form and entering $22 under “gift amount”. If you have questions, please contact HMSC Membership. For additional questions, please contact the HAA College Alumni Programs Office at haa_collegealumniprograms@harvard.edu or 617-496-7001 between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. (ET), Monday through Friday. Back to Top Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College