Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Get Involved Stay connected to the Harvard community, engage with fellow alumni, and support the University by becoming a volunteer. No matter where you live, there are plenty of ways to get involved. Learn About Clubs and SIGs View Public Service Opportunities Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Activities Chairs and Class Committees Activities chairs are College alumni volunteers who support their Class Committees in non-reunion years. They bring classmates and alumni from surrounding classes together in their post-graduate cities and regions, serving as key players in keeping College alumni connected. For additional information on the responsibilities of activities chairs, you can read the activities chairs role description and onboarding document. If you are interested in volunteering as an activities chair to support your Class Committee in the period from July 2021 through June 2022, please fill out this form. Following that, a member of the College Alumni Programs team or your Class Committee will follow up with you with more detailed guidance on next steps. Career Network Log into your Alumni Community profile to update your occupation information and join our Career Network to make yourself available to students and fellow alumni looking for career advice and mentoring. Clubs and Shared Interest Groups Harvard Clubs and Shared Interest Groups (SIGs) are volunteer-led organizations that offer a wide range of programmatic, community service, and educational opportunities to help develop and strengthen your alumni network. Reach out to your local Club or preferred SIG to learn how you can be involved. Crimson Connect Volunteering can be as simple as connecting with classmates or fellow Harvard alumni online through LinkedIn, Facebook, Instagram, or Twitter. Become a Crimson Connector by joining Harvard’s alumni social media ambassador program, Crimson Connect. By connecting and contributing meaningful content or promoting digital opportunities to others, you are serving as an advocate for the College. You’ll share campus news, faculty research, alumni accomplishments, and encourage others to leaf through Harvard Magazine, pass along a Harvard Gazette article, or circulate photos from campus activities and ongoing Harvard traditions through the social channels of your choice. Plus, the more you share, the more points you accumulate. At the end of each month, three users will win Harvard-themed prizes for their participation. Sign up today! Harvard Alumni Association Board of Directors The HAA Board of Directors helps to advise the HAA on ways to best engage the alumni community. HAA Elected Directors are elected by Harvard alumni at large. If you are interested in learning more about the HAA Board of Directors, please contact Volunteer Leadership at haa_alumnihelp@harvard.edu or 617-495-5731. Harvard College Fund Volunteering with the Harvard College Fund provides one of the most meaningful and influential opportunities for individuals to stay connected to the College and University. This dedicated volunteer corps of more than 1,500 College alumni spans more than 60 class years, and College parents and Graduate School alumni join us in our efforts to raise funds for a range of endeavors across Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences, which includes Harvard College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Learn more about becoming a volunteer and contact your class officer to get involved. Program and Event Participation There are thousands of events and programs worldwide available to alumni each month and hundreds of global Harvard communities based in shared graduating classes, geographies, identities, avocations, and career pursuits. Check out the programs and events calendar to search and filter events offered by the HAA, local Clubs, and SIGs. The listings include marquee events such as Global Networking Night, Welcome to Your City, and those surrounding The Game, as well as programming spanning the arts, faculty talks, online programs, volunteer opportunities, and more. The Gazette events calendar also lists dozens of daily virtual events. Reunions Each year, Harvard College Reunions bring more than 11,000 alumni back to campus to enjoy a range of intellectual and social programming. Volunteering with your reunion program committee can be one of the most memorable and meaningful experiences as an alumnus/a. Join your reunion program committee or class gift committee to connect with your classmates and support our most popular alumni event. Attending your own Reunion and encouraging others to do so is also a vital way to ensure that your Class stays connected over the years. Reunion Program Committee Help lead your class reunion effort as a member of the reunion program committee, a group of volunteers who plan reunion events and encourage broad reunion attendance and excitement. To learn more about reunion programs, contact the College Alumni Programs team at collegereunions_haa@harvard.edu or 617-496-7001. Reunion Campaigns Help lead your reunion fundraising effort, then celebrate with your classmates at your spring or fall Reunion on campus. Learn more about reunion campaigns and contact your class officer to get involved. Student Engagement Each year, hundreds of College alumni volunteer their time and expertise to advise and mentor current students. Recurring opportunities are listed below, and invitations for singular opportunities are regularly emailed. Have a question or idea for this type of programming? Contact College Alumni Programs at haa_collegealumniprograms@harvard.edu or 617-496-7001. Admissions Interviewing Help us recruit new talent and welcome accepted students through our Alumni Admissions Program. Alumni admissions interviewers and members of our Schools and Scholarships Committees recruit and evaluate applicants to Harvard College. To be eligible to participate as an interviewer, you must be a degree-holding alumnus/a from Harvard College or one of Harvard’s graduate schools. Should you have any questions about your alumni status or eligibility as an interviewer, please contact the Admissions Alumni Interviewing Team at ssinfo@fas.harvard.edu. Access the Alumni Interview Portal. Career Connections In addition to participating in the Career Network in the Alumni Community, alumni can offer current students the benefit of their wisdom, experience, and networks through the Office of Career Services. Alumni can post jobs and internships for free on Crimson Careers, hire or host a student for a January Experience over winter break, participate in an on-campus program, or apply to be a Professional in Residence via the OCS website. First-Year Host Family Program The Harvard College First-Year Host Family Program facilitates informal friendships between first-year Harvard College students and local contacts, including Harvard alumni. Students selected for the program are typically international students who lack meaningful contacts in the United States, or domestic students who might benefit from additional support for a variety of reasons. By providing a local support system to these students, the program hopes to ease their transition to college life. Potential hosts and interested students are asked to provide information regarding their hobbies, academic interests, and desired level of involvement in the program. These responses are used to match each student with a compatible host (individual or family). Please note that hosts are not expected to provide housing for students at any point during the year, including over vacations. Those who are interested in doing so, however, may. Public Interested Conference Public Interested is a collaborative one-day conference that helps students explore varied public interest careers and network with alumni in those fields. Alumni and students will hear from inspiring speakers, interact with fellow Crimsons, participate in engaging activities, and meet peers who share a passion for public service. House Programs The HAA partners with undergraduate Houses to provide opportunities for students and alumni of the Houses to connect for advice and mentorship, primarily around careers. Invitations to participate in these programs are extended directly to local alumni via email. Stay Connected Stay in the know by actively managing your email preferences to make sure you’re receiving the Harvard Alumni Gazette, College Alumni newsletter, and your local Harvard events listing, and other communications from the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA). We also encourage you to sign up for the Daily Gazette to start each weekday with a quick serving of Harvard news. Harvard Magazine and the Harvard Gazette are great places to find Harvard stories. Want to share those stories? Find and follow Harvard on social media! Become a social media ambassador for Harvard by joining Crimson Connect Harvard Alumni Association is on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, and Twitter Harvard College Alumni is on Facebook and Instagram Harvard University is on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, and Twitter Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College