Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Giving Stories The impact of philanthropy to Brown is transforming lives on College Hill and beyond. Breadcrumb Home News & Stories Sub Navigation In This Section Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Every gift to Brown has the power to make a lasting impact. From making the dream of a Brown education possible for a deserving student to supporting pathbreaking research on disease to revitalizing our campus, we're celebrating the many ways that gifts to Brown are making a difference. May 25, 2022 Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 April 14, 2022 Alumni & Friends 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day Want to help make this Brunonians Pay It Forward Day our biggest yet? Here’s how you can get involved and spread the word about this giving day. April 3, 2022 Alumni & Friends Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 This year’s giving day saw the Brown community help raise more than $2.6 million for the Brown Annual Fund. March 25, 2022 Alumni & Friends Upping our game BrownTogether has already helped elevate Brown’s Division of Athletics and Recreation. M. Grace Calhoun ’92, the division’s new vice president, is determined to keep the momentum going. March 25, 2022 Alumni & Friends What’s next for BrownTogether? We’re now heading toward $4 billion. See where the next phase of BrownTogether will take us. March 25, 2022 Alumni & Friends One campus, a world of possibilities With further investments in financial aid, BrownTogether aims to make need-blind admission for international students a reality. March 21, 2022 Alumni & Friends Anticipation, joy, relief. Match Day is in the books! Members of Brown’s MD Class of 2022 celebrated the start of the next phase of their medical careers as they discovered where they have been matched for residencies. March 1, 2022 Alumni & Friends $4B: BrownTogether campaign extended With its new $4 billion goal, the campaign will continue through 2024—raising funds for research and teaching in medicine, public health, engineering and the arts, as well as student financial aid, career services and Brown Athletics. February 21, 2022 News from Brown $10 million gift from Reed Hastings, Patty Quillin to bolster 58-year-old Brown-Tougaloo Partnership The generous gift from Netflix CEO Reed Hastings and producer Patty Quillin will provide much-needed financial support to students from Tougaloo College, an HBCU in Mississippi, including many who come to Brown. February 14, 2022 Alumni & Friends Caring for women both near and far Dr. Methodius Tuuli has been serving as the chair of obstetrics and gynecology at The Warren Alpert Medical School for about a year. He is definitely in the right place at the right time. December 10, 2021 Alumni & Friends 10 Brunonians who embody BrownTogether From researchers to recent grads, discover the people who illustrate the heart of Brown’s most ambitious campaign. December 9, 2021 Alumni & Friends This is what $3 billion looks like How did BrownTogether reach $3 billion? What does it mean for Brown? We’ll let the numbers tell the story. View all Giving Stories Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Giving Stories Open details for Giving Stories Bookmark this Page