Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Carney Institute for Brain Science The brain is the body’s most complex organ. Unlocking its mysteries, therefore, necessitates a multi-layered, collaborative approach like that of the Carney Institute. Breadcrumb Home Giving Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Sub Navigation In This Section Biomedical Research Brown Arts Institute BrownConnect Brown University Library Carney Institute for Brain Science Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Cogut Institute for the Humanities Computer Science Data Science Initiative Diversity & Inclusion Educational Innovation Investing in Faculty Financial Aid Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics John Carter Brown Library Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women Physics School of Engineering School of Public Health The Warren Alpert Medical School Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Discovery That Benefits Humanity The Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science consists of more than 180 faculty members from 23 academic and clinical departments, as well as undergraduates, graduate students, postdoctoral scientists, and other researchers. These scholars are: Uncovering the mechanisms that lead to cell death, which can clarify the causes of—and give rise to cures for—neurodegenerative diseases like ALS and Alzheimer’s. Applying computational neuroscience’s sophisticated theories, modeling, and data analysis to help predict who is most at risk for psychiatric illness or suicide and determine better treatments for chronic pain or depression. Gaining insight into how pathways in our brain influence decision making, learning, and reward, which can lead to a better understanding of addiction. Your gift will help fund bold research that has already begun to yield insights, and will contribute to exploring treatments and cures for some of the world’s most devastating diseases. “ Our brain science researchers and clinicians are generating new knowledge about how the brain works and developing ways to mimic complex brain function. ” DIANE LIPSCOMBE Thomas J. Watson, Sr. Professor of Science; Professor of Neuroscience The Reliance Dhirubhai Ambani Director at the Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science https://www.youtube.com/embed/-VpNIsHGYbM The Carney Institute How we're accelerating the pace of scientific discovery about the brain. Fuel discoveries that benefit humanity. Help the Carney Institute for Brain Science find treatments and therapies for some of the world's most devastating diseases. MAKE A GIFT For more information about giving to the Carney Institute, please contact: Nicole Peters Sisson Senior Director of Development for Academic Initiatives +1 (401) 863-9877 nicole_peters@brown.edu Related Stories News from Brown For physics Ph.D. student, exploring the unknown universe and mentoring the next generation February 7, 2022 An active voice for women in physics, Brown graduate student Farrah Simpson will conduct research related to the Large Hadron Collider, the world’s most powerful particle accelerator, as a 2022 Graduate Scholar at Fermilab. Read Article Open details for For physics Ph.D. student, exploring the unknown universe and mentoring the next generation Alumni & Friends Improving mental health through computational neuroscience November 8, 2021 The Carney Institute’s new BRAINSTORM program is bridging the gap between basic brain science research and clinical applications for mental well-being. Read Article Open details for Improving mental health through computational neuroscience Alumni & Friends The best way to fight Alzheimer’s? Together. June 16, 2021 By convening innovative researchers across academia, Brown’s new Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research hopes to accelerate the pace of development for treatments and cures of this devastating disease. Read Article Open details for The best way to fight Alzheimer’s? Together. Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Open details for Carney Institute for Brain Science Bookmark this Page