Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Get Involved With Annual Giving The success of each year’s Annual Giving campaign is the direct result of the efforts of nearly 3,000 volunteers who dedicate their time and energy to strengthening Princeton’s excellence. Representing all of Princeton’s undergraduate classes, graduate alumni, and the parents of current Princeton students and alumni, Princeton volunteers are the heart of Annual Giving. Get Involved Email tigers@princeton.edu to learn more. Meet the Chairs Annual Giving Chairs lead the effort each year, mobilizing their fellow volunteers to ensure Princeton’s “margin of excellence.” Annual Giving Chair Chris Olofson ’92 is honored to “work alongside the legion of volunteers who show up every year to amplify the importance of participation in Annual Giving.” A longtime Annual Giving volunteer, Chris has served as a class agent for the Class of 1992’s 20th Reunion and as chair of ’92’s critical few effort for the 25th Reunion campaign. In addition, Chris has been a member of the Annual Giving Committee since 2012, serving as a vice chair since 2017. Chris has also been an active member of the Princeton University Art Museum Advisory Council since 2011. Monique Rinere *00 and Raghuveer Vinukollu *11 are co-chairs of Graduate Alumni Annual Giving and members of the Annual Giving Committee. Monique has served as a Graduate Alumni Annual Giving volunteer since 2016 and has also served on the Alumni Schools Committee, the Association for Princeton Graduate Alumni board and as a P-rade marshal. Since 2011, Raghuveer has served as a volunteer for Graduate Alumni Annual Giving; he has been a member of the Annual Giving Committee since 2016. He is also a member of the Civil and Environmental Engineering Advisory Council. Sami and Nadine Zakaria P22 P24 are co-chairs of the Parents Fund and members of the Annual Giving Committee. Since 2019, they have volunteered their time with the Parents Committee, connecting with fellow Princeton parents on behalf of Annual Giving. Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram