Skip to content Harvard Extension Alumni Association Harvard Division of Continuing Education About Us Board of Directors Resources Events Get Involved Class Notes & News Donate Harvard Extension Alumni Association Harvard Division of Continuing Education About Us Board of Directors Messages from the Board of Directors Resources Events Get Involved Class Notes & News Constitution Donate Privacy Statement Media Requests Join our global community today. Twitter Facebook Harvard Alumni Welcome to the Harvard Extension Alumni Association As a member of the Harvard Extension Alumni Association (HEAA), you’re part of a global community of more than 29,000 alumni in more than 100 countries. Connect with fellow graduates and certificate recipients at HEAA events and programs. Access exclusive Harvard resources and facilities. Foster a lifelong commitment to education with your goodwill and support, or get involved on campus through mentorships and committees. Join Us Help us foster personal and professional connections among alumni and establish a lifelong relationship between the school and its graduates. 29,000 Members, over 100 countries represented 100 Countries Get Involved Make a Gift to the Harvard Extension School Your gifts and donations allow Harvard Extension School to continue serving students and graduates with world-class education, wide-reaching events, and resources for a lifetime. The Office of Advancement assists alumni, parents, and friends in making gifts to the school that fund scholarships, establish a legacy, and provide significant tax benefits. Gifts Update your contact information Update Alumni.Harvard Profile Degree holders should keep your profile up to date in the University-wide Harvard Alumni Online Directory. Update MyDCE Account Associate Members should update their MyDCE Account. Upcoming and Past Events Harvard Extension School Virtual Alumni Weekend, June 26 & 27, 2021 Current and Past Events The Global Economy After Covid-19 with Peter Marber, PhD Current and Past Events The Turning Point: How Pandemics Helped Conquer Mexico 500 Years Ago, February 25, 2021 Current and Past Events Overcoming Silos and Divisions with Evan R. Bernstein ALM '11, February 11, 2021 Current and Past Events HEAA Puzzles and Brainteaser Social Night, February 4, 2021 Current and Past Events Join our global community today. Follow Harvard Extension Alumni Association Twitter Facebook Harvard Division of Continuing Education A division of Harvard University dedicated to bringing rigorous programs and innovative online teaching capabilities to distance learners, working professionals, high school students, college students, and those seeking higher learning in retirement. Harvard Extension School Harvard degrees, certificates and courses—online, in the evenings, and at your own pace. Harvard Summer School Academic summer opportunities for adult, college and high school students—at Harvard and abroad. Harvard Professional Development Short, intensive programs to develop skills and strengthen your professional profile. Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement Peer learning in the liberal arts—a community program for retired and semi-retired professionals. Harvard Division of Continuing Education Privacy Statement Accessibility Rights & Regulations Digital Accessibility Policy Harvard.edu Cookie Settings Copyright ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College