Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Harvard College Fund Student Philanthropy You’ve got questions? We’ve got answers. Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers What is the Harvard College Fund? For nearly 100 years, the Harvard College Fund has supported everything you love about Harvard: financial aid, mental health services, Classroom to Table, House life, career services, Crimson After Dark, and much more. Each year, more than 30,000 students, alumni, parents, and friends give through the Fund to bolster the College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS). But why does Harvard need more money when it has such a large endowment? As explained in this Crimson article, Harvard’s endowment is the sum of money the University invests in a variety of financial markets. With the proceeds of these investments, Harvard uses the endowment to fund a number of operating costs and programs. It is not one giant bank account that Harvard can spend whenever and however it likes! The University takes only about 5 percent of these funds every year to fund its operating budget. In addition, the endowment is made up of hundreds of individual funds, most of which are restricted for a specific purpose chosen by the donor. That means the endowment can only cover a predetermined part of Harvard’s operating expenses. Donations made through Senior Gift do NOT go to the endowment! These dollars immediately and directly support everything that defines your Harvard experience today. What about tuition? Doesn’t tuition cover these expenses for each student? Tuition only covers part of a Harvard education, so every student receives a subsidy to attend, even if they don’t receive financial aid. The generosity of donors makes this possible. Why are all gifts important to Harvard? Can my gift really have an impact? Flexible, current-use gifts through the Harvard College Fund not only bridge gaps in the endowment, they also enable Harvard’s students and faculty to test new ideas, push boundaries, and respond to unexpected opportunities right away. Collectively, all gifts—no matter the amount—sustain and grow our School. Flexible dollars have made so much possible throughout the pandemic, including: Support for hundreds of reimagined courses, designed for online instruction and this unprecedented moment in time Remote-learning allowances for all off-campus undergrads on aid, to assist with food and housing expenses 530,000+ COVID-19 tests distributed to students, faculty, and staff since June 2020 Take-home lab kits, so SEAS students could examine the science and engineering behind COVID-19 policies from their own dorm room More than 1,500 tablets and styluses, 200 laptops, and 100 mobile hotspots loaned to students with technology needs Harvard College Everywhere, so students could stay engaged and connected from anywhere in the world New mediums and emerging technologies, so Theater, Dance & Media students could find new ways to perform Faculty support, so College professors could use their research to combat the pandemic’s effects on health and the global economy How can I get involved? Interested in learning more about the Harvard College Fund? Want to educate your peers on how philanthropy impacts your undergraduate experience? Join the Harvard College Fund Undergraduate Committee! Contact Associate Director of Undergraduate and Recent Graduate Philanthropy, Molly Stansik ’13, for more information. Learn more about the Harvard College Fund Follow Harvard College Alumni on Facebook Follow Harvard College Alumni on Instagram Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College