Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis right arrow down arrow UC Alumni Day at the Indiana Pacers Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore right arrow down arrow Washington D.C.: UC vs. SMU Game Watch International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month UC Alumni Association » Resources & Perks » Alumni Travel Program Set Navigation title in component Career Discounts & Perks College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript Alumni Travel Program Do U want to C the world? Traveling with the University of Cincinnati Alumni Association allows you to see the world with fellow Bearcats in an exclusive and worry-free environment. Our trusted travel partners take care of all the details, so you can relax, meet fellow Bearcats, and enjoy the sights. All UC alumni trips include enhanced travel services: All excursions and visits, as outlined in brochure, with experienced local guides. Gratuities to local guides and drivers on included excursions and transfers. The services of experienced Gohagan & Company Travel Directors throughout the program. Pre-departure concierge service such as a travel document wallet, name badge and pre-departure brochures. Automatic $250,000 flight insurance policy for each participant ticketed on flights by Gohagan & Company. Transfers and luggage handling abroad for participants whose arrival(s)/departure(s) coincide with the scheduled group transfer(s). Dutch Waterways - May 2 to 10, 2022 right arrow down arrow River Life® along the Dutch Waterways* Exclusively Chartered, Deluxe Small River Ship Amadeus Queen May 2 to 10, 2022 This departure is sold out, but Gohagan has added another departure leaving the day before (May 1). If you’re interested in registering for that trip, please contact Gohagan directly at 800-922-3088. From approximately $2795 plus air Celebrate the beauty of Holland and Flanders in springtime. Cruise for seven nights aboard the exclusively chartered, deluxe river ship Amadeus Queen. Meet local residents during the exclusive River Life® Forum. Experience the Floriade World Horticulture Expo, held once every decade. Expert-led excursions include visits to the historical canals of Amsterdam, storybook Bruges and Ghent, the world-class Kröller-Müller Museum, the incomparable Keukenhof Gardens, Delft, Kinderdijk, Antwerp and the largest of the Delta Works engineering projects. This comprehensive itinerary is an exceptional value, praised as the ideal Dutch and Flemish experience. Amsterdam Pre-Program and The Hague and Gouda Post-Program Options offered. Contact us to receive a brochure in the mail. For more information, you may call our travel partner Thomas P. Gohagan & Company at 800-922-3088. Itinerary Amsterdam, Kröller-Müller Museum, Kinderdijk, Ghent, Bruges, Antwerp, Delft, Keukenhof Gardens, Floriade World Horticulture Expo Day Destination Depart the U.S. or Canada Amsterdam, the Netherlands/Embark Amadeus Queen Nijmegen for Kröller-Müller Museum Kinderdijk/Willemstad/Delta Works/Bruinisse Ghent, Belgium/Bruges/Ghent Antwerp Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for Delft/Keukenhof Gardens Lelystad for Almere and Floriade World Horticulture Expo Amsterdam/Disembark ship/Return to the U.S. or Canada Itinerary is subject to change. Activity Level Easy Highlights An acclaimed program operating for more than 30 years with high praise. Comprehensive and multifaceted seven-night cruise aboard the exclusively chartered, deluxe small river ship Amadeus Queen. Excursion to the Floriade World Horticultural Expo, held in the Netherlands once every 10 years, to enjoy the remarkable sustainable architecture and exquisite floral and plant displays. Visit to world-famous Keukenhof, the “Garden of Europe,” at the peak of tulip season to see the world’s largest and most colorful display of spring flowers. Guided tour of the prestigious Kröller-Müller Museum. Viewing of three of Peter Paul Rubens’ masterpieces in Antwerp’s Cathedral of Our Lady. Tour of Ghent’s St. Bavo’s Cathedral, whose chapel houses the Adoration of the Mystic Lamb. Walking tour of Bruges, a UNESCO World Heritage site. Exclusive River Life® Forum featuring local residents. Complimentary wine and beer served with lunch and dinner aboard ship. Complimentary Wi-Fi aboard ship (conditions permitting). An exceptional value for an all-inclusive, deluxe program. Amsterdam Pre-Program and The Hague and Gouda Post-Program Options. European Coastal Civilizations - May 11 to 20, 2022 right arrow down arrow European Coastal Civilizations* A Voyage from Lisbon to London aboard the Exclusively Chartered, Five-Star Small Ship Le Bellot Featuring Dwight David Eisenhower II May 11 to 20, 2022 (Le Bellot) From approximately $5395 plus air Explore the historical legacies and dynamic cultures of coastal Portugal, Spain, France and England. Cruise for eight nights aboard the exclusively chartered, Five-Star small ship Le Bellot. Enjoy a memorable cruise up the storied River Thames to London’s Tower Bridge. Special guest Dwight D. Eisenhower II, historian and grandson of General and President Dwight D. Eisenhower, accompanies you to the hallowed beaches of Normandy. Explore Oporto in Portugal’s renowned wine country, walk in the footsteps of ancient pilgrims in Santiago de Compostela, visit Bilbao’s iconic Guggenheim Museum and see Mont‑Saint‑Michel’s impressive abbey. Lisbon Pre-Program and London Post-Program Options. Contact us to receive a brochure in the mail. For more information, you may call our travel partner Thomas P. Gohagan & Company at 800-922-3088. Itinerary Lisbon, Oporto, Santiago de Compostela, Bilbao, Normandy Beaches, River Thames to London Day Destination Depart the U.S. or Canada Lisbon, Portugal/Embark Le Bellot Leixões for Oporto A Coruña, Spain, for Santiago de Compostela Santander for Bilbao Cruising the Bay of Biscay Saint-Malo, France, for Mont-Saint-Michel Caen for Normandy Beaches Cruising the English Channel/River Thames to London’s Tower Bridge, England London/Disembark ship/Return to the U.S. or Canada Itinerary is subject to change. Activity Level Moderately Active Highlights A specially arranged opportunity to tour Normandy with Dwight David Eisenhower II, noted historian and grandson of President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Uniquely designed, eight-night cruise itinerary available only through Gohagan & Company. Exclusively chartered cruise aboard the Five‑Star small ship Le Bellot, with private balconies in all Suites and Staterooms. Visit four countries—Portugal, Spain, France and England—with access to ports unavailable to larger vessels and all shore excursions included. Visit the historic beaches of Normandy, accompanied by Professor Eisenhower. Explore three UNESCO World Heritage sites—Oporto, Santiago de Compostela and Mont-Saint-Michel. Visit the iconic Guggenheim Museum in beautiful Bilbao, Spain. Once-in-a-lifetime cruise from the English Channel up the River Thames to London’s storied Tower Bridge, possible only by small ship. Complimentary alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages available throughout the cruise. Complimentary Wi-Fi access (conditions permitting). Lisbon Pre-Program and London Post-Program Options. Alaska - July 14 to 21, 2022 right arrow down arrow Alaska’s Glaciers and the Inside Passage* Exclusively Chartered, Five-Star, All-Suite, Small Ship Star Breeze July 14 to 21, 2022 From approximately $4295 plus air Join this exploration-style cruise through the Inside Passage from Vancouver to Juneau during optimal long summer days aboard the exclusively chartered, Five‑Star, all‑Suite small ship Star Breeze. See Misty Fjords National Monument Park and call at Ketchikan, Wrangell and Sitka. Look for humpback whales at Point Adolphus and navigate isolated inlets inaccessible to larger vessels for superlative views of Alaska’s spectacular scenery. Cruise Tracy Arm Fjord to majestic South Sawyer and Dawes Glaciers. Onboard naturalists provide lectures focused on local wildlife and landscapes. Vancouver and Victoria Pre‑Program and Anchorage, Denali and Fairbanks Post-Program Options. Contact us to receive a brochure in the mail. For more information, you may call our travel partner Thomas P. Gohagan & Company at 800-922-3088. Itinerary Vancouver, Inside Passage, Ketchikan, Sitka, Dawes Glacier, Endicott Arm, Tracy Arm Fjord, Juneau Day Destination Depart home city/Arrive in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada/Embark Star Breeze Cruising the Inside Passage Misty Fjords National Monument (weather and sea conditions permitting), Ketchikan, Alaska, U.S. Wrangell Sitka Elfin Cove/Point Adolphus Tracy Arm Fjord/Sawyer Glacier/Endicott Arm/Dawes Glacier Juneau/Disembark ship/Return to home city Itinerary subject to change. Activity Level Moderately Active Highlights Five-Star accommodations, seven-night, exploration-style itinerary—the best way to experience the last of the great American frontiers—available only through Gohagan & Company. Created in Gohagan & Company’s tradition of innovative programming and educational travel. Enjoy an intimate experience aboard the Five-Star, all-Suite small ship Star Breeze, as you are surrounded by the breathtaking Alaskan scenery and the awe-inspiring Inside Passage. Prepare for the unexpected—a pod of whales feeding, seals basking on icebergs, bald eagles soaring above—as your small ship can position or alter course for better wildlife observation. Experience incredible natural wonders every day—wildlife spotting, small expedition vessel excursions up close to glaciers and narrow fjord cruises. Visits to the Alaskan frontier outposts of Sitka, Wrangell and Ketchikan. Cruise the narrow fjord of Tracy Arm and see North America’s tidewater glacial jewels, including South Sawyer and Dawes Glaciers. Team of expert naturalists and specially arranged lecturers on board. Vancouver and Victoria Pre-Program Option and Anchorage, Denali National Park and Fairbanks Post-Program Option. Dordogne - October 6 – 14, 2022 right arrow down arrow Village Life® Dordogne* October 6 – 14, 2022 From approximately $3995 plus air Experience Dordogne’s authentic provincial charms for a week in Sarlat-la-Canéda, one of France’s most beautiful and well-preserved medieval villages. Stay in the family-owned Plaza Madeleine Hôtel, formerly a grand 19th-century townhouse. Discover the region’s charming villages, medieval castles and prehistoric treasures through specially arranged excursions and Cultural Enrichments, including the medieval pilgrimage site of Rocamadour and the fascinating prehistoric cave paintings of Rouffignac and Cap-Blanc, all UNESCO World Heritage sites. Enjoy the perfectly reproduced cave art at Lascaux and the exclusive Village Life® Forum with local residents who will share insights into daily life. Bordeaux Pre-Program and Albi/Toulouse Post-Program Options. Contact us to receive a brochure in the mail. For more information, you may call our travel partner Thomas P. Gohagan & Company at 800-922-3088. Itinerary Day Destination Depart the U.S. or Canada Bordeaux, France/Sarlat-la-Canéda Sarlat-la-Canéda Rocamadour/Souillac Les Eyzies/L’Abri du Cap-Blanc Lascaux/St-Amand-de-Coly Rouffignac/La Madeleine Beynac/Domme Sarlat-la-Canéda/Bordeaux/Return to the U.S. or Canada Itinerary is subject to change. Activity Level Moderately Active Highlights Uniquely designed, small group program. Immerse yourself in the character and traditions of Dordogne, an authentic provincial treasure. Unpack just once and stay in the family-owned Plaza Madeleine Hôtel in the heart of medieval Sarlat, across from the twice-weekly village market. Most meals included, featuring two dinners in specially selected bistros in Sarlat; complimentary local wine with included dinners. Visit up to five of France’s UNESCO World Heritage sites. Enriching educational lectures. Exclusive Village Life® Forum featuring local residents. View prehistoric cave art in the state-of-the-art International Center for Cave Art at Lascaux and in Rouffignac. Bordeaux and Saint-Émilion Pre-Program Option and Albi and Toulouse Post-Program Option, featuring medieval Carcassonne and lovely Cordes-sur-Ciel. One of the most popular Gohagan & Company Village Life® programs. Greece - October 15 to 23, 2022 right arrow down arrow Island Life® Ancient Greece An Aegean Odyssey* Exclusively Chartered, Five-Star, Small Ship Le Bougainville October 15 to 23, 2022 From approximately $4995 plus air Join us for this nine-day Aegean Odyssey cruising round trip Athens, Greece, aboard the exclusively chartered, Five-Star small ship Le Bougainville. Call on the islands of Delos, Mykonos, Pátmos, Rhodes and Santorini, including the Peloponnese Peninsula. Visit Meteora, where 14th- and 15th-century monasteries stand high atop soaring natural sandstone pinnacles; walk through the fabled Lion Gate of legendary Mycenae; and explore the monumental ruins of the Sanctuary of Asklepios of Epidaurus. Engage with local residents who will discuss contemporary life on the islands during the specially arranged Island Life® Forum. Athens Pre-Program and Delphi and Thebes Post-Program Options. Contact us to receive a brochure in the mail. For more information, you may call our travel partner Thomas P. Gohagan & Company at 800-922-3088. Itinerary Day Destination Depart the U.S. or Canada Athens, Greece/Embark Le Bougainville Volos for Meteora Delos/Mykonos Pátmos Rhodes/Lindos Santorini/Akrotiri Nafplion for Mycenae and Epidaurus Athens/Disembark ship/Return to the U.S. or Canada Itinerary subject to change. Activity Level Moderately Active Highlights Uniquely created seven-night cruise itinerary following Gohagan & Company’s tradition of innovative, small ship programming and educational travel. Visit up to eight UNESCO World Heritage sites showcasing the culture and architecture of Ancient Greece. Call on islands steeped in myth and history—Delos, Mykonos, Pátmos, Santorini and Rhodes. Walk through the fabled Lion Gate of the legendary city of Mycenae. Explore the monumental ruins of the Sanctuary of Asklepios in historic Epidaurus. Exclusive Island Life® Forum with local residents who will discuss contemporary life. Athens Pre-Program Option and Delphi and Thebes Post-Program Option. Protect your vacation investment with a Travel Protection Plan Plan for the unexpected. Protect your travel investment against trip cancellation, travel delay, baggage loss and more. Plus, make sure you’re covered while you’re away from home for emergency medical care and emergency medical evacuation, if needed. The UC Alumni Association has partnered with USI Travel Insurance Services to offer a plan designed with our travelers in mind. Visit http://my.travelinsure.com/ucaa to learn more, get a quote and enroll. More Information Join our travel mailing list and we'll send you brochures for all upcoming trips. Call us at 513-556-4344 or join our travel mailing list. Kelly Grant Associate Director of Annual Giving and Member Services 513-556-6294 grantke@foundation.uc.edu University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top