Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Current Students Jump to… Students Today, Alumni Tomorrow Stay Connected Student and Alumni Networking Working at Yale College Reunions Student Leadership Positions After Graduation Connect on Social More Ways to Connect Students Today, Alumni Tomorrow You are a student today, an alum tomorrow, and a Yalie forever! One of the great things about Yale is that, while you may embark on future careers, further studies, and all the other journeys of a long, interesting life, Yale never leaves you. You are – and always will be – a Yalie. And as such, you have a place with the Yale Alumni Association. Stay Connected Are you graduating this year? If so, starting in January, you will be able to access the online alumni community. Students set to graduate in the current academic year have access to exclusive alumni services, such as the all-inclusive online alumni directory and YaleMail, the Yale-branded alumni email service. And be sure to keep in touch after graduation as well. Update your contact information so you never miss out on the latest events and other news. And sign up for YaleMail! We invite you to create a branded alumni email account. (Your student account will be closed after one year; Yale ITS provides instructions on transferring your email archive to YaleMail or another account.) Back to Top Student and Alumni Networking Cross Campus Yale’s networking, community-building, and mentoring platform, open to all Yale students and alums. STAY STAY hosts events and supports channels to form meaningful student-alumni relationships. Careers, Life and Yale Careers, Life, and Yale features programs that provides mentoring and insights into careers and life skills from alumni. Back to Top Career Resources The Yale Office of Career Strategy offers career advising, professional school advising, employment and internship opportunities, and career development resources. Office of Career Strategy Back to Top Working at Yale College Reunions Yale students, did you know you can work during Yale College Reunions? Get to know the Yale Alumni Association staff, mingle with alumni, and make some money, too! To apply visit the Yale Student Employment Office (SEO) website and search job #1982. Back to Top Student Leadership Positions Yale Alumni Student Leadership Positions Undergraduate elections for the YAA class delegates and class officers positions are held in the late winter of each school year (February/early March). All classes hold elections except for the current senior class. For more information reach out to Jeannie Daniel, associate director of recent graduate engagement. Open positions for each class are as follows: Info Accordions YAA Class Delegates: Class of 2024 & Class of 2025 Duties of the YAA class delegates include: Attending the YAA Assembly in November and reporting back to the class on important university issues Serving on YAA committees relevant to undergraduate life and student-alumni relations Other student/alumni engagement projects as appropriate Class Officers: Class of 2023 Yale College’s oldest elected positions, class secretary and class treasurer. The officers serve during their senior years and have responsibilities until the 5th reunion, in 2028. The duties during senior year include: Organization of a Class Council Planning events (previous events have included a tailgate, a trip to Mohegan Sun, a Super Bowl party, open house at the Art Gallery, Pizza Study Break, Bar Nights, and the Masquerade Ball, among other things) Organizing Senior Week events and producing and selling class gear Monitoring the class treasury Working with Dean Hannah Peck and the Yale College dean’s office Class secretary serves as an ex-officio member of the Yale Alumni Association Board of Governors After graduation, duties include: Writing class notes – the exciting goings on of your fellow Class of 2023 alumni – six times a year for the Yale Alumni Magazine (secretary) Keeping the class treasury healthy by writing text for dues emails and letters. (treasurer) Organizing and monitoring class events with the assistance of the Yale Alumni Association (regional, reunions, tailgates etc.) Back to Top After Graduation A Yale degree is just the beginning. BOLD, or Bulldogs of the Last Decade, is your link to curated opportunities for recent grads. BOLD helps you connect and engage with your fellow Yalies and expand your network, both online and at events happening around the world. Back to Top Connect on Social @YaleAlumni on Instagram @YaleAlumni on Twitter @YaleAlumni on TikTok Yale Alumni Association on Facebook Yale Alumni Association on YouTube Yale Alumni Association on LinkedIn Back to Top More Ways to Connect Yale Alumni Association Groups Graduate or Professional School Associations Events Back to Top Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page