Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Alumni Association Toggle navigation Site Menu Membership Join Today Renew Your Membership Membership Overview Why Become a Member? Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks Alumni Directory My oneFSU Dashboard Students Student Alumni Association Join SAA SAA Membership Perks My oneFSU Dashboard Honors Alumni Ambassadors Award Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Legacy Scholarship Grads Made Good The Inspire Award Community Alumni Networks Alumni Career Services Events Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Alumni Travel Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Webinar Resources Virtual Alumni Resources Support Join, Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Give to the Legacy Scholarship Give to the FSU Alumni Association Give to the FSU Alumni Association Endowment Give to FSU Academic Programs Purchase a Westcott Plaza Brick Support the Alumni Ambassadors Fund About About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Annual Highlights Alumni Center & Events Employment Frequently Asked Questions Financial Information Map and Directions Sponsorship Opportunities FSU Alumni Center Toggle navigation SECTION MENU Honors Askew Young Alumni Award Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award Young Alumni Awards The Alumni Ambassadors Award The Alumni Ambassadors Award Today’s students become tomorrow’s leaders. The development of future leaders is a priority of the FSU Alumni Association National Board of Directors, which recognizes that leadership is inspired by an outstanding educational experience. To that end, the Board has established the Alumni Ambassadors Award, which will financially support the process of leadership development. The Ambassadors Award Committee seeks students with demonstrated commitment, vision, and potential for lifelong leadership and innovation in their communities and the world. Awards may be granted to current junior, senior or graduate students enrolled at Florida State University and may be used at the student’s discretion for academic expenses such as research projects and costs associated, including travel. Eligibility Award applicants must be a current junior, senior or graduate student in good standing at Florida State University. Applicants must submit a completed application prior to the published deadline to be considered for an award. Selection Criteria Written essays (prompts are included on the application) Academic merit as determined by current GPA In-person presentation to the Ambassadors Award Committee (top 3-5 finalists will be invite to present) Important Dates Fall 2022 - Applications Open Winter 2022 - Applications Close January - Finalist Invited to Interview with Selection Committee March - Recipients Notified April - Recipients Announced at the Spring Alumni Awards ceremony Donations in support of the Ambassadors Scholarship program may be made online or via mail (please indicate the gift designation as Ambassadors Award or fund F08335S). Donate Jane Benoit– College of Arts and Sciences Ms. Benoit is a 3rd year Ph.D. candidate in the Cell and Molecular Biology program. Her current focus is understanding how DNA packaging in human cells is altered during viral infections and innate immune stimulation, with special interest in SARS-CoV-2.She is also a teaching assistant and serves as a steering member of the departmental Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion committee. Kristina Lynch (B.S. ’21) – College of Health and Human Sciences Ms. Lynch is completing her master's degree in Exercise Physiology with plans to go to medical school and become an orthopedic surgeon and research scientist dedicated to utilizing stem cells to treat neurological diseases. She is a two-time National Champion on the FSU Women’s Soccer Team and is a member of the Student-Athlete Leadership Council. The Alumni Ambassadors program is funded by gifts to the FSU Alumni Association by current and former members of the National Board of Directors. For more information about the Alumni Ambassadors Award program, contact Joanna White at 850.645.8233 or jwhite9@fsu.edu. We thank our donors for their support: Blythe and Lynn Adreon El and Kathleen Ahlwardt Scott Atwell Nancy Hart Battaglia Cheryl and Howard Beckert B. Dan Berger Bruce and Julie Blackwell Flecia L. Braswell David K. Brobst Raymond and Stella Cottrell Robert and Stacie Cox John and Angela Crossman Hugo and Mary de Beaubien Tracie M. Domino Sandra and David Dunbar Wayne and Mary Edwards Mark Ellis Dale and Toots Greene Michael Griffith Marty and Cheryl Hall Tom Haney Maura Hayes Jeff Hill Mark and Nan Hillis Lee F. Hinkle Tom and Leonor Hynes Betty Lou & Jim Joanos Samantha G. Klaff Maury and Diana Kolchakian Craig and Mitzi Lynch Bruce W. McNeilage Phil and Linda O'Connell Max Oligario Michael Raymond Laurel Richardson Laura Russell Guy and Delores Spearman Marion Taormina Hargett Heather Turner Gene and Ginny Walden Scott Wiegand The FSU Alumni Association awards the Legacy Scholarship annually, and additional opportunities may be available through your local Seminole Club or Chapter. Past recipients "The Alumni Association’s overwhelming generosity is evidence of FSU’s commitment to developing leaders and inspiring progressive thinking— a legacy left by alumni who came before me. Receiving the Alumni Ambassador Award is an empowering opportunity to define my FSU legacy. This award enables me to further purse my innovative research interests, expand my science outreach, and engage marine stewards from Tallahassee and around the globe." - 2019 Recipient Abbey Engleman “It has been a great privilege for me to come to FSU and pursue doctoral studies, and I am grateful to receive this award from the FSU Alumni Association. Being able to serve as an FSU Alumni Ambassador is beyond what I could have imagined, just like nobody in my village has believed that I would be able to go to college, not even to say attending graduate school outside of my home country.” Min Wang “I feel incredibly honored and thankful to receive such amazing support from the FSU Alumni Association. For the past four years, Florida State has reliably managed to exceed my every expectation with regard to the generosity and intentionality of its investment in its students. This award means a great deal to me, and I look forward to future opportunities to support future Seminoles who are determined to develop solutions to the world’s difficult and urgent problems.” Alexander Bell OFFICIAL PARTNERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Their generous support allows the FSU Alumni Association to provide programs, services and events to you. MEMBERS Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Member Perks Reward Zone Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks STUDENTS Student Alumni Association Join SAA Benefits of SAA Membership Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks HONORS Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award COMMUNITY Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Events Football HQ Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Travel Programs ABOUT US About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Sponsorship Opportunities ALUMNI CENTER Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions FSU Alumni Association 1030 W. Tennessee St. Tallahassee, FL 32304 Email Us (850) 644-2761 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright Close