Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Community Volunteer with Alumni Affairs & Development One of the most valuable ways in which alumni can be involved with Harvard is through volunteering. Our volunteers are what help shape and sustain our institution. They take great pride and satisfaction in giving back—and we welcome all alumni to join our volunteer community. Volunteer With Us Menu Main menu Community Overview My Profile My Contacts Email Forwarding Email Preferences Message Board My Messages Post A Message Alumni Class Notes My Notes Submit a Class Note Clubs & SIGs Clubs Directory SIGs Directory Volunteer Public Service Stories Careers & Networking HAA Career Resources Career Resources by School HAA Career Webinars Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA HAA Board HAA Poet Laureate Staff Directory Awards and Recognition Help Whether you are looking to make a difference by mentoring students, connecting with fellow alumni in your local communities, or becoming an ambassador for Harvard, we have something for you. Browse our curated list of volunteer opportunities below or reach out for more ways to share your time with Harvard. College Alumni Admissions Interviewing Help us recruit new talent and welcome accepted students through our Alumni Admissions Program. Alumni admissions interviewers and members of our Schools and Scholarships Committees recruit and evaluate applicants to Harvard College. To be eligible to participate as an interviewer, you must be a degree-holding alumnus/a from Harvard College or one of Harvard’s graduate schools. Should you have any questions about your alumni status or eligibility as an interviewer, please contact the Admissions Alumni Interviewing Team at ssinfo@fas.harvard.edu. Access the Alumni Interview Portal Clubs and Shared Interest Groups With nearly 200 Harvard Clubs and 60 Shared Interest Groups (SIGs) open to University alumni worldwide, these communities are based in shared geography, profession, identity, and interest. Wherever you are and whatever you’re passionate about, odds are that there’s a Club or SIG for you! Clubs and SIGs are alumni-led and governed, working in partnership with the HAA to connect Harvard alumni to each other and to the University. Check out the Harvard Clubs and SIG directories to learn more about these alumni communities and how you can get involved. View Clubs Directory View SIGs Directory Crimson Connect Crimson Connect makes it easy for alumni to become social media ambassadors for Harvard. Alumni want to hear from each other, and through our Crimson Connect program, you can connect with your classmates while helping us share the latest stories out of Harvard. As a member, you receive monthly emails with shareable content to post on the social channels of your choice. You will get news highlighting student and alumni accomplishments, faculty research, and much more. All we ask is that you share it with your network! Become a Crimson Connector Public Service The HAA has a historic tradition of public service. Through programs like Non Profit Recruitment and Engagement Fairs, Early College Awareness, and the Summer Community Service Fellowship, alumni who volunteer through our programs are making a difference across the globe. Learn More About HAA Public Service Programs Other Opportunities for College Alumni From helping to plan your Reunion to serving on your Class Committee, College Alumni Programs has additional opportunities for Harvard and Radcliffe College alumni. Find More Ways to Get Involved Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College