Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Header Utility Menu Contact Us Get Involved Make a Gift Search Search Forward Blue Scholarships School/College Funds Mission, Academics and Programs Campus Improvements Health Sciences Staff Directory Alumni Community Alumni Relations FAQ Your School or College Stay Connected Find Groups and Associations Alumni Benefits and Resources National Black Alumni Advisory Board Women of Creighton Mission and Ministry History and Tradition Become a Resource for Students Alumni Outcomes Awards and Honors News and Events Latest News Events Calendar Creighton Days Giving Day Evening of Honors Athletic Events AlumWire Giving Opportunities Find your giving opportunity Volunteer The Creighton Society Ways to Give Parent Fund Corporations and Foundations Diversity and Inclusion Scholarships Health Sciences Phoenix Athletics How Funding Works Goodbye Gallagher Homepage A new day at Creighton MEETING THE MOMENT, TOGETHER At Creighton, our Jesuit mission shapes our vision. But our alumni and friends — our one-of-a-kind community — you make that vision a reality. You can help us forge a bold new chapter in Creighton’s extraordinary story. Learn how you can support Forward Blue — the largest and most comprehensive fundraising campaign in Creighton's history. 82%to Goal of$650,000,000 $535,000,000Raised Participants 39,446 Raised $535M To goal 82% Learn more about Forward Blue Fundraising priorities Scholarships Now more than ever, scholarships are vital. They continue Creighton's legacy of offering life-changing experiences to any student who wants to make a difference in the world. Learn more about Scholarships Mission, Academics & Programming Our Jesuit approach to teaching, research and innovative programming is the cornerstone of a Creighton education, allowing us to form women and men for and with others. Learn more about Mission, Academics & Programming Campus Improvements Capital projects are more than new buildings. They’re spaces to inspire hearts and minds, ensuring that our students get the best education and reach their full potential. Learn more about Campus Improvements Alumni events Jun 02 Thu EdD in Interdisciplinary Leadership Celebration Nebraska Jun 02 Thu Kansas City Alumni Networking Happy Hour - Sold Out 05:30pm Missouri Jun 05 Sun Creighton Alumni at the Texas Rangers 01:35pm Texas View All Events Creighton News and Features The Poopas of Gallagher Hall May 04, 2022 Nursing In the fall semester of 1969, a group of women (mostly nursing and education majors) moved into Gallagher Hall, sparking a friendship that's still going strong more than half a century since freshman year. They call themselves the Poopas. New Jesuit Residence coming to Creighton Mar 28, 2022 100,000 Creighton degrees (and counting) Apr 21, 2022 View News by School or College Arts & Sciences Business College of Professional Studies Dentistry Graduate School Law Medicine Nursing Occupational Therapy Pharmacy Physical Therapy SPAHP All News Gallagher Hall T-shirt It's begun. After more than 60 years of life, Gallagher Hall is coming down. Yet the one-of-a-kind community forged in those four walls lives on. As one Creighton alum told us, "Gallagher is not a place. It's a people." It is now, also, a limited-edition T-shirt. Here's how to get one. Get the shirt Read the Gallagher memories Meet the Poopas From the Creighton archives From time to time, we cull the Creighton archives for interesting features and photos that celebrate the University's rich history. If you're looking to feed your Creighton nostalgia, there are few better places to start. A few of our features ... The rise and fall and rise of Creighton football Graduation photos — 1891 to 2021 The alum who saved Batman See all Creighton archive stories Stay Connected There are dozens of ways for alumni to continue their lifelong connection to Creighton! Stay connected with former classmates, faculty, staff and the Jesuit community through alumni events, programs and more. Also, don’t forget to take advantage of your alumni benefits! Your school or college Ways to connect Attend an event Explore alumni benefits Find a giving opportunity Mission and Ministry IMPACT STORIES All Stories Her journey for others When the timing was right the life-long learner and education advocate began writing the next chapter of her life. The Impact of Scholarships In the School of Pharmacy and Health Professions, generous donors inspire confidence, create access to opportunities and honor a legacy. Meet three students impacted by the gift of scholarship. Ben Thompson, DPT’21 Scholarship recipient The faith, vision, and generosity of Creighton women “I’ve been known to tell students and fellow alumni that because neither Creighton couple had children who survived past the age of five, we are the descendants of the Creightons and must help live out their legacy." Katie Wadas-Thalken, EdD, Assistant Dean for Academic Affairs Developing confident leaders Last fall, in a new partnership between Creighton University and Union Pacific Railroad, the first eight Union Pacific Scholars arrived on campus. You can support the Creighton community! Support our students and help Creighton lead the way! Make a gift to scholarships, programs, research or any area meaningful to you. Gift by gift, you fuel the future of Creighton University. Find your giving opportunity Donor Impact Creighton's generous donors empower our students through academic excellence, unwavering faith and service to others. In this year’s Donor Impact magazine, you will find inspirational stories of philanthropy and of the transformational power of higher education. Read the magazine The gift of Creighton Creighton is a world-class academic institution recognized for excellence and enriched by a centuries-long tradition of Jesuit, Catholic education. Since 1878, Creighton has built upon a foundation of faith, service and generosity. Every brick and block of limestone stands as testament to the enduring power of our mission and the people who live it. Now, a dynamic vision guides our path forward. And we call on our alumni and friends to help us lead the way. Learn more about the Forward Blue campaign for Creighton Watch Video Leading the Way Creighton is a world-class academic institution recognized for excellence in teaching, learning and research, and enriched by a centuries-long tradition of Jesuit, Catholic education. Find your giving opportunity Creighton University HR Compliance Privacy Non-Discrimination 2500 California Plaza Omaha, NE 68178 • 402.280.2700 © 2021 Creighton University