Skip to main content ncstate-alumni-wolf-web Alumni Association Menu Close About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Engagement facebook twitter linked in email About About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine NC State Magazine Merchandise Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Engagement Find your favorite ways to run with your Pack through our many engagement opportunities. Red and White for Life Alumni and friends of the Wolfpack share a lifelong loyalty to their university and to their Pack. Through the Alumni Association, you can grow that loyalty into an active connection. We support about 40 alumni groups across the country that connect their members to one another and to the university through events and social media. These groups are based on either geographic location or other commonalities and are open to NC State alumni, parents, friends, students and fans, regardless of membership in the Alumni Association. Current students can start building their post-college community before they leave campus through one of our student groups. Wherever you are in the world and whatever walk of life you’re in, participating in the Alumni Association will help you sustain old relationships and build new ones — all around your shared experiences, common bonds and deep Pack pride. Connect With Your Pack Regional Networks Unite with fellow alums in your area through one of our more than two dozen regional networks across the nation. Explore our networks Constituency Groups Our constituency groups bring alums together based on ethnicity, occupation, age or interests. Explore our constituency groups Student Involvement Current students can celebrate traditions and network with alums through our Student Ambassador Program and Student Alumni Association. Explore our student programs Travel With WolfTreks What better way to travel the world than with your Pack? Through our WolfTreks Travel Program, join fellow alumni and friends for guided, educational adventures across the United States and to every continent. Choose your dream trip from dozens of options each year, and we’ll do all the work of planning it for you. Learn more Upcoming Events All Events Jun 10 Friday7:05 PM New York Alumni Network: Yankees Baseball With the Pack Jun 18 Saturday2:00 PM Denver Alumni Network: Axe Throwing With the Pack Jun 19 Sunday1:20 PM Chicago Alumni Network: Cubs Baseball With the Pack Howl Back Engaging with us is easy, no matter how you choose to do it. You can keep up with us on social media or check out our latest news. You can join us for one of our virtual events. Or if you’re ready for an adventure, you can pack your bags and plan a trip with us through the WolfTreks Travel program. You can also give back to your Pack by sharing some of your time to help make our community and programs happen. Our regional networks and constituency groups are driven by volunteers who work with Alumni Association staff to communicate with members and plan events. If you’re interested in starting or participating in a network or group, let us know. Get Involved Volunteer Volunteers make our networks and groups possible. Find out how you can get involved in engaging your fellow alumni. Learn more Become a Member Membership in the Alumni Association offers you additional ways to stay bonded to the university and your NC State family. Explore our memberships Follow Us Find us on Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn or YouTube for our latest news and events. Follow us Alumni Association Home Campus Box 7503 NC State University Raleigh NC 27695-7503 919.515.3375 Campus Map About Membership Events Engagement News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.