Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Ways to Give Jump to Annual Giving Gift Planning Capital Giving International Giving Friends Groups Corporate and Foundation Giving Jump to Annual Giving Gift Planning Capital Giving International Giving Friends Groups Corporate and Foundation Giving Ways to Give Annual Giving Moving Forward Together, we make it possible. Annual Giving sustains and enhances the University's distinctive academic programs and brings together Princetonians, parents, and friends of all generations whose gifts help realize a transformational educational experience across generations. Unrestricted gifts to Annual Giving go directly into the University’s operating budget for the benefit of Princeton’s students, faculty and programs. These flexible funds allow the University to seize new opportunities, respond to unexpected challenges like remote learning during the COVID-19 pandemic, and support a pioneering financial aid program that makes a Princeton education possible for all admitted students. The 2020-21 Annual Giving campaign concludes June 30, 2021. Learn More Gift Planning There are many ways you can make a gift that costs you nothing today—or that helps you make a tax-wise investment in your future and Princeton’s. Create Income Now: Princeton offers three types of life income plans. These plans provide payments for life and also allow the University to support student and faculty endeavors. Create a Plan for the Future: It’s easy to include Princeton in your estate plan, and it costs you nothing now. Gifts can be allocated to general support or to a program, initiative, or area of study that is important to you. Bequests, gifts of real estate and other assets, and charitable lead trusts are just a few ways to include Princeton in your legacy. Testamentary Gifts from Retirement Plans: Alumni and friends who would like to make a tax-efficient bequest should consider naming Princeton as a beneficiary of an IRA, Keogh, tax-sheltered annuity, qualified pension, or profit-sharing plan—it’s the most tax-efficient way to create a legacy. Current Gifts from Retirement Funds: Making your gift from retirement funds can offer significant tax and planning advantages by withdrawing funds yourself and taking an offsetting deduction in the same tax year, or by making a qualified charitable distribution. Annual Giving Legacy: You can now make a significant gift to Annual Giving for your major reunion, while providing yourself and/or your beneficiaries an income stream. Learn More Capital Giving Capital and endowment funds from generous donors are vital to ensuring that the University will continue to fulfill its mission of teaching, research, and service for generations to come. Why Give: Maintaining the qualities that define Princeton, and keeping it strong for the future, require substantial resources. These key characteristics distinguish Princeton as a world-class institution and enable it to generate ideas, make discoveries, and educate new generations of leaders. What Your Gift Makes Possible: A groundbreaking no-loan financial aid program; a culture in which all professors teach undergraduates; leading-edge research that holds the promise of helping to solve some of society’s most pressing problems; an exceptionally talented, diverse, and dedicated student body; a historic campus of striking beauty; and an unflagging quest for excellence. Capital and endowed gifts allow all of these elements to thrive. How to Give: Capital Gifts can be unrestricted or designated by the donor for use in support of specific programs, initiatives, or building/renovation projects. The Capital Giving teams--Principal Gifts, Leadership Gifts, International Giving, and Gift Planning--works with alumni, parents, and friends of Princeton to match their interests with the needs of the University. Your Impact: These gifts to the Princeton endowment are invested, and their earnings provide a permanent source of income for the University. Capital and endowment funds are vital to ensuring that the University will continue to fulfill its mission of teaching, research, and service for generations to come. Learn More International Giving Give from near and far: If you live outside the United States and are considering a gift to Princeton, you can, in most cases, give online using your credit card. In other cases, we may be able to provide you with details such as fees, basic tax information, and partner organizations that can help process your gift. The United Kingdom, 16 other countries in Europe, and Canada have well-developed procedures for giving to US universities. Governments around the world often introduce new ways to support institutions like Princeton. We can help you navigate the giving landscape. Learn More Friends Groups Princeton’s athletic teams, art museum, library, and other campus organizations depend on the support of Friends groups to sustain their excellence. Learn More Corporate and Foundation Giving Princeton’s partnerships with corporations and foundations help transform theories and research that begin in classrooms and laboratories into real-world projects that can make a difference to society. Learn More Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram