Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Updates for our alumni community Alumni Affairs and Development Recruitment Fair Meet our leadership team Office of Alumni Affairs Northeast Corridor West Coast International Alumni Relations Northeast Corridor A regional office located in New York City Join events near you Return to campus or find a Big Red party in your own neighborhood. SEE EVENTS The Northeast Corridor (NEC) team serves all alumni, parents, and friends between greater Boston and Washington, D.C. With over 97,000 Cornellians living in this region, almost half of all alumni call the northeast corridor home. By supporting Metro NY regional clubs, delivering Cornell’s Mission through experience, and facilitating philanthropy to the university, the NEC is the gateway to participation in the region. Our Mission: As Cornell’s local presence, the NEC shares the University’s breadth with its largest community of alumni and friends every day. In collaboration with campus partners, we foster lifelong connections through giving, personal relationships, volunteerism, and events. We discover and inspire new supporters who advance Cornell’s mission. Contact Erin Dodd ’98 Executive Director for Development, Northeast Corridor 212-351-7686 erin.dodd@cornell.edu Ilana Dimbleby Director, Northeast Corridor Engagement 212.351.7685 igc8@cornell.edu Plan your Reunion Reunion has something for everyone. Browse events and create a custom itinerary to make the most of your weekend on the Hill! Can't make it in person? Choose the Virtual Reunion package during registration and get access to featured livestream events. Make your schedule Ho Plaza looking south from atop McGraw Tower. Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022