Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Exec Ed Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Alumni Menu Home Connect Wharton Global Clubs Network Wharton Global Clubs Directory Wharton Global Clubs Team Wharton Officers Global Clubs Network Events Ways to Give MyPenn Get involved at Penn Attend Global Forums Past Global Forums Reunions Wharton Webinars Webinar Help Global Club Network Events Resources Career Resources Lifelong Learning Events Event Video Library Wharton Webinars Global Forums Past Global Forums Reunions Wharton Magazine Executive Education Knowledge@Wharton Wharton Online Give Funding Opportunities Student Support MBA Fellowship Research and Programs Campus Tangen Hall Academic Research Building Campaign in Review The Wharton Fund How to Give Benjamin Franklin Society BFS $1 Million Challenge Loyalty Society Wharton Alumni Fellows MBA Reunion Weekend MBA Class Gift The Wharton Partnership Gift Planning The Hattersley Society What Can You Give? Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Give » Funding Opportunities » Campus » Academic Research Building Academic Research Building The new building is the academic hub for faculty, students, and research programs, including those focused on data and analytics. Building Size 68,000 sq. ft. Location 37th and Spruce Streets Lobby Located just off the Mack Plaza, the West Lobby serves as a main entrance to the Academic Research Building. The vibrant space is an ideal location for students to socialize before or after classes and can transform into an elegant setting for celebratory events. Atrium An inviting space on the first floor, where students can gather around a living green wall or cluster in seating groups. The lounge leads to the Wharton Undergraduate Division Suite, providing a point of connectivity for students, and converts to accommodate social gatherings. SAIL Classrooms The building’s two 72-seat Structured Active-in-Class Learning (SAIL) classrooms are designed for project-based learning and collaboration. Group Study Rooms Designed for team-based projects, these rooms located on the first and second floors comfortably fit up to six students. For more information about the Academic Research Building Contact Us Stories Learn about positive experiences, opportunities, and outcomes made possible by the philanthropy of Wharton alumni, donors, and friends. Read more Campaign in Review Experience Impact in Action The world and its complex challenges require innovative solutions. The More Than Ever campaign positioned Wharton to meet these challenges head on. Philanthropic support during this campaign significantly increased Wharton’s capacity to incubate ideas, power insights, and create leaders who change the world. Learn About the Campaign Ways to Give Can’t find what you’re looking for? Contact The Wharton Fund at +1.215.898.7868 or whartonfund@wharton.upenn.edu The University's fiscal year is July 1 – June 30. ▼ Give Online Use Our Secure Giving Site ▼ Give by Phone Call The Wharton Fund at +1.215.898.7868 ▼ Give by Mail At this time, we are asking that all checks be sent directly to the bank for processing. Please include your name (and your spouse’s name if applicable), affiliation(s) and how to allocate your gift (ex. The Wharton Fund). Make checks payable to “The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania” For USPS University of Pennsylvania Office of the Treasurer PO BOX 71332 Philadelphia, PA 19176-9913 For FedEx and UPS Deliveries Only University of Pennsylvania Wharton External Affairs Suite 300 FMC Tower 2929 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 ▼ Gifts of Cash Cash gifts can be made by check or charged to a credit card. Charitable gifts of cash are deductible up to 60% of the donor’s adjusted gross income in the year of the gift with any balance carried forward up to five more years. In valuing any charitable gift for tax purposes, the donor must reduce the gift amount by the fair market value of any goods or services received from the charity. Wharton’s Fiscal Year is July 1- June 30. Use Our Secure Giving Site ▼ Donor-Advised Funds or Private Foundations Recommend or direct gifts through donor-advised funds or private foundations. Penn’s Tax ID/EIN is 23-1352685 Make donations payable to “The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania” Designate gift to The Wharton Fund. ▼ Bank Wires Send your gift via a bank wire to: Wells Fargo Bank N.A. 420 Montgomery Street San Francisco, CA 94104 Account Name: The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania – Gifts Accounting Account# 2000030009956 Reference: Name and Affiliation (example: Susan Lee, WG’99) For Domestic Wires and ACH’s ABA Routing #: 121-000-248 For International Wires Only SWIFT CODE: WFBIUS6S CHIPS: 0407 ▼ Appreciated Securities The transfer of stock from a donor to Wharton is a fairly simple transaction. Morgan Stanley serves as the University’s main brokerage firm. You will need to work directly with your broker to complete a transfer form and initiate a transfer of stock to the University of Pennsylvania. If you hold the certificate, it is best if those certificates remain unendorsed and you complete a separate stock power form authorizing transfer of ownership from the donor to Wharton. ▼ Charitable Gifts Through Your IRA The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015, has extended the IRA Charitable Rollover permanently. The extension allows individuals age 70½ and older to donate up to $100,000 from their IRAs to The Wharton School tax-free. You do not receive an income tax charitable deduction. This provision allows you to transfer money from your IRA directly to Wharton, without having to recognize the transfer as taxable income. You should consult with your tax advisors about your specific situations. The sample letter can be used to send to your IRA plan provider. ▼ Matching Gifts Don’t miss the unique opportunity to increase the impact of your giving through a matching gift program. To find out if your employer participates and learn more about how to apply a match to your Wharton Fund gift, visit Penn’s matching gifts database. Most matching gifts are made by companies employing Wharton alumni, including: Bank of America Deloitte & Touche LLP Exxon Mobil Goldman Sachs Google IBM Microsoft PricewaterhouseCoopers Wells Fargo And many more For more information concerning the Matching Gifts Program, you can call +1.215.898.5069 or contact devgifts@dev.upenn.edu. ▼ Giving from Outside U.S. If you live outside the United States and are considering a gift to Wharton, please visit Penn’s Giving from Outside the U.S. website. If you are a taxpayer in one of the following areas, please visit our country-specific giving pages before making your gift as your contribution may qualify for tax benefits in your home country. Canada Europe Hong Kong United Kingdom ▼ Planned Gifts Planned gifts can be made through bequests, unitrusts, life insurance, pooled income funds, and real estate. If you are interested in learning more about planned giving opportunities, call +1.215.898.6171 or click on the link below. Learn About Planned Gifts Funding Opportunities Student Support MBA Fellowship Research and Programs Campus Tangen Hall Academic Research Building Campaign in Review The Wharton Fund How to Give Benjamin Franklin Society BFS $1 Million Challenge Loyalty Society Wharton Alumni Fellows MBA Reunion Weekend MBA Class Gift The Wharton Partnership Gift Planning The Hattersley Society What Can You Give? Additional Links Alumni Home Connect Attend Resources Give Contact Us Featured Links What Can You Give? The Hattersley Society Gift Planning Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff Twitter Facebook LinkedIn YouTube InstagramSupport Wharton©2022 The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Alumni | Privacy Policy | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help