Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month Pride Month UC Alumni Association » Get Involved » Interest & Affinity Groups » UC Latino Alumni Network Set Navigation title in component Update Your Info College Networks A&S Alumni Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups UC Latino Alumni Network African American Alumni Affiliate 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids UC Latino Alumni Network The University of Cincinnati is proud to celebrate the traditions, culture and accomplishments of our Latino Bearcats! From coast to coast and around the world, Latino alumni are blazing trails in education, science, politics, public service and many other industries. National Hispanic Heritage Month traditionally honors the cultures and contributions of both Hispanic and Latino Americans as we celebrate heritage rooted in all Latin American countries. During this month - celebrated from Sept. 15 - Oct. 15 - the UC Alumni Association is proud to share history, heritage, and accomplishments of Hispanic and Latino Bearcat alumni of past and present. Check back for information on in-person and/or virtual events that the UC Latino Alumni Network has curated. Get Involved There are many ways to get involved with the UC Alumni Association via the UC Latino Alumni Network (UCLAN). Here are four things you can do to get started: Join fellow Bearcats at one of our local events. Follow UCAA on Facebook and share news from our alma mater. Join the Loyal Bearcat Society. Attend a UC Latino Alumni Network Event View more alumni programs on our event calendar. Find UCLAN on Social Media FACEBOOK Frequently Asked Questions How do I join the UC Latino Alumni Network (UCLAN)? right arrow down arrow UCLAN is an affinity group focusing on the Latino alumni experience. If you identify as Latino or Hispanic, you’re already considered part of the network — all you need to do is get involved! And UCLAN is an inclusive network; any UC alumnus can participate, regardless of their ethnicity. Are there membership dues? right arrow down arrow UCLAN is part of the UC Alumni Association, which is not a dues-based organization — so no, it costs nothing to be part of the network. Participants are encouraged, however, to support the Alumni Association so that it can continue to provide services such as UCLAN to alumni. How many Latino/Hispanic alumni does UC have? right arrow down arrow Approximately 15,000 alumni have identified as Latino/Hispanic; that’s about 1% of alumni with listed ethnicity codes. The university is continuously working to enhance its alumni data so the actual number is almost certainly slightly higher. Why is it important that UCLAN has been founded? right arrow down arrow With over 300,000 alumni around the world, the UC Alumni Association provides a range of engagement opportunities that speak to our diverse alumni family and help Bearcats connect with UC and each other. This includes such networks and activities as our UC Young Professionals, UC veterans, the UnCorked UC wine club, our LGBTQ and allies network, and alumni networks in each college and 30+ U.S. cities, just to name a few. It’s all about building connections around certain interests that many Bearcats share. The UC Latino Alumni Network joins this list and offers many alumni a new pathway to greater engagement with UC. UCLAN has an incredible group of volunteer eager to leverage their expertise and connections to help meet the social and academic needs of UC students and alumni. What kind of things will UCLAN be doing? right arrow down arrow Our activities will focus on the Latino student and alumni experience. That means helping students with personal and professional development, as well as putting financial resources behind student success. We’ll also be a resource for alumni — not just for social activities but personal and professional development as well. And if there is a need that UCLAN is not addressing, we ask alumni to help us fill the gap. We’re always glad to work with volunteers who want to see their alma mater and all Bearcats reach their full potential. Justin Gibson, Bus '05 Program Director of Alumni & Donor Experience, Diversity Outreach and Engagement 513-556-4312 gibsonjn@foundation.uc.edu University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top