Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Giving Tax Information Menu Main menu Giving Overview Give Online Planned Giving Gifts That Pay You Income Lead Trusts Assets You Can Give Events Harvard Planned Gift Administration Resources Meet the Staff Contact Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Types of Bequests How to Make a Bequest Benefits of a Bequest Future Use Attorney & Advisor Info Gift Policy Guide Tax Information Request a Tax Receipt FAQ Giving Contacts Harvard University is registered with the Internal Revenue Service as a private, nonprofit 501(c)3 with a federal tax ID (EIN) of 04-2103580. Harvard’s legal name is President and Fellows of Harvard College which will appear on all relevant tax documentation. Harvard’s fiscal year runs from July 1 to June 30. Tax receipts are mailed to the donor’s preferred address within 15 business days after the donation is received. As of March 18th, 2022 gifts made by credit card will receive a tax receipt to the email address provided in the online giving form. Please use your preferred email address when making a gift online. Need a copy of your tax receipt? Use our Tax Receipt Request Form. Please note that Harvard does not issue tax receipts for gifts legally made from Donor Advised Funds. The DAF sponsor handles all recordkeeping, disbursements, and tax receipts. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College