Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Venture Forward ‘Dare to Venture’ video series The Venture Forward video series features Princeton faculty and alumni who are daring to ask the questions that have the potential to change the future. The videos emphasize the University’s defining principles — talent and truth-seeking; access, affordability and inclusivity; and service to humanity. Watch the Videos “Venture Forward moves us from the present to the possible.” President Christopher L. Eisgruber ’83 News Princeton launches Venture Forward, an engagement and fundraising campaign that supports the University’s strategic plan On Oct. 1, 2021, Princeton University publicly launches Venture Forward, an engagement and fundraising campaign dedicated to meeting today’s complex challenges and those of the future. See the Possible Gifts Major gift from Jaimie and James Yeh ’87 names residential college and supports undergraduate expansion Yeh College, comprised of four dormitory halls and previously referred to as New College East, will open in August to welcome returning students and the Class of 2026. Watch the Video The Venture Forward Campaign Through engagement and giving, the Princeton community reinforces its commitment to truth-seeking, talent and inclusivity, while it co-creates a better future in the service of humanity. How will you Venture Forward? Engage Give President’s Page: Venturing Forward President Eisgruber’s annual State of the University letter Venture Forward Impact Venture Forward is a mission-driven campaign that is focused on Princeton University’s strengths in the liberal arts, pushing the bounds of knowledge across disciplines, and collaborating to champion inclusion, the humanities, science, art, public policy and technology. Explore Access and Affordability Expand Opportunity Annual Giving Forward Together Bioengineering Explore Innovation Data Science Unlock Solutions Environment Meet Challenges Service Get Involved Through Venture Forward, we co-create a better future for Princeton and the world. Venture Forward Campus Impact New engineering and environmental studies facilities will support innovative research that benefits society. Imagine the Future An Affordable Education Through your support of scholarships, fellowships and Annual Giving, you make Princeton’s unparalleled commitment to access, affordability and student success possible. Make it Possible Education Through Athletics Athletics at Princeton are designed to complement the University’s essential educational mission, and foster a shared allegiance among Princeton students, faculty, staff, alumni, community and friends. Tiger Up American Studies American Studies is a hub for conversations about what America is and means. Faculty and students use the tools of the humanities and social sciences to explore the complex, interwoven strands of American history and identity and to address fundamental questions about America today. Explore America Together, we venture forward... to engage in service to Princeton and in the service of humanity. Be Inspired Everywhere you look, you see the impact of Princeton alumni, parents and friends who are venturing forward in service to humanity. See Your Stories Tigers Rising In every corner of the globe, Tigers are rising to the moment and meeting today’s challenges. Volunteering to make a difference through service, both to the University and to humanity, is an enduring value for alumni. See Volunteer Opportunities Orange & Black Day Tigers around the world showed their orange and black pride and spirit for Princeton’s 275th birthday. Wish Princeton a Happy Birthday Venture Forward Toolkit Princetonians and friends can access social media tools and resources, including useful content and links to graphics, to share Venture Forward news and information online. Forward the Conversation Join the Conversation #VentureForward #ForwardTogether Skip social media feed Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram