Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Harvard College Fund Harvard College Fund Associates Generosity that shapes students and faculty, lives and scholarship, in the Yard and beyond its gates. Membership Levels and Benefits Past Events Ways to Give Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers About the Associates Harvard College Fund Associates are an extraordinary community of generous alumni, parents, and friends who provide the annual support that allows Harvard College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences to pursue their academic missions. Leadership gifts help Harvard sustain core commitments, seize new opportunities, and respond to emerging needs. Associates hail from 82 classes, ranging from the Class of 1936 to the Class of 2020, and include 7,367 College alumni; 549 College parents; 256 Graduate School alumni; and 782 faculty, staff, and friends of Harvard. Membership Levels and Benefits We invite you to become a first-time Associates donor or renew your commitment this year and every year. The Associates Program has five leadership giving levels, with adjusted levels for current students and recent graduates. Donors receive benefits that correspond to their gift amounts, plus all of those accrued to the following levels. Please note: All events are subject to change due to unforeseen circumstances. Members will be notified of event changes. President’s Associates ($25,000) Invitation to the annual President’s Associates dinner Leadership Associates ($10,000) Invitations to leadership programming Crimson Associates ($5,000) Invitations to regional events (locations vary) Charter Associates ($2,500) Communication from a student providing greater insight into life on campus Fund Associates ($1,000*) Listing in the Annual Report of Associates Giving *Current students qualify for membership with an initial gift of $100 or more prior to graduation. Recent graduates qualify for membership with an initial gift of $250 or more prior to their 5th Reunion or $500 or more prior to their 10th Reunion. Past Events President’s Associates Dinner 2019 and Associates Receptions 2019 Previous Next Ways to Give Help support the teaching, learning, and research mission of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Online Make a gift to Harvard College. Make a gift to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. By Mail Please make your check payable to "President and Fellows of Harvard College" and mail to: Harvard College Fund / Graduate School Fund Harvard University PO Box 419209 Boston, MA 02241-9202 By Phone 1-800-VERITAS (837-4827) Other Ways to Give Learn more about gifts of securities, wire transfers, and more. For information about gift planning, please visit our gift planning pages. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College