Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Harvard College Fund Reunion Campaigns Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Join us for one of Harvard College’s most cherished alumni traditions, your class Reunion. Every five years, classes engage in comprehensive fundraising campaigns to inspire high levels of class participation and to secure leadership contributions in support of Harvard. Reunion efforts involve large gift committees and rely on dedicated volunteer leadership. Whether you want to volunteer with your class gift committee, work with the Harvard Alumni Association on reunion programming, or make a gift in support of your Class’s reunion effort, we encourage you to join your fellow classmates in celebrating our Harvard community. From the 5th Reunion to the 60th Reunion and beyond, your efforts build community and form the cornerstone of the Harvard College Fund. Thank you for your involvement and support. Contact Us Please contact your HCF Class Officer for more information about joining your reunion giving effort. Resources View dates for future Reunions Find your HAA class website Learn more about volunteering with your class gift committee Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College