Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Brown Women’s Network Celebrating 130 years of women at Brown by bringing together Brunonian women who are interested in tapping into their shared Brown roots for their lifelong social, professional, and intellectual development. Breadcrumb Home Communities & Interests Affinity Groups The Brown Women’s Network aims to keep the 40,000+ member Brown alumnae, student, and staff community engaged with the University and each other through a variety of programming—from podcast interviews with noteworthy women of Brown, to live events throughout the year, to seasonal newsletters, and more. The Brown Women’s Network is open to all members of the University community who identify as cis or trans women, as well as non-binary people who are comfortable in spaces that center on the experiences of women. Celebrating 130 Years of Women at Brown Back to Top This year, the Brown Women’s Network honors the past, present, and future of all women of Brown and reflects on the journeys of members of this diverse community. In a series of special events to be held throughout the 2021-22 academic year, the Brown Women’s Network is paying tribute to the generations of inspiring and successful Brunonian women who have driven societal change and made a difference in the world. Together, we will honor the many triumphs and challenges of Brown women—particularly Black, Brown, and all women of color, women from the LGBTQIA community, and differently abled women—and we will deepen our understanding of our varied experiences, forge new bonds, and examine the evolving role of women at Brown and beyond. This year, the Pembroke Center for Teaching & Research on Women also celebrates 40 years of groundbreaking research, teaching, and community-building. Women have powerfully contributed to the progress and advancement of Brown University for 130 years. There is no question that women will continue to lead and innovate within the Brown community, in our nation, and in the world. I'm thrilled that we are celebrating the outstanding achievements of women in our community. President Christina H. Paxson Events Back to Top Industry Night: Data & Technology* May 9, 5:30–6:30 p.m. ET | Register Current students, alumnae who have graduated within the last five years, and those changing careers are invited to learn more about data and technology careers through this alumnae panel discussion with interactive breakout groups. Panelist details to be shared closer to the event date. *Industry Night is a recurring networking event sponsored by the Brown Women’s Network for current students, alumnae who have graduated from Brown in the past five years, and those starting new careers. Faculty Spotlight: Lynne Joyrich May 18, 3:00-4:00 p.m. ET | Register Join the Brown Women's Network for a Faculty Spotlight conversation featuring Lynne Joyrich, Director of the Pembroke Center's LGBTQIA+ Thinking initiative, Professor of Modern Culture and Media, and Director of Graduate Studies, Department of Modern Culture and Media, as we learn more about her research around the construction of gender and sexuality in contemporary media. Presented by the Brown Women's Network and co-sponsored by the Pembroke Center. All in-person Brown events are following guidelines for the safety of all attendees, including observing all local public health regulations that govern group gatherings and mitigation measures. To learn more about the Brown community's response to COVID-19, please consult healthy.brown.edu. Past Event Recordings CHANGING AN INDUSTRY: WOMEN IN TELEVISION, FILM, & MEDIA Nina R. Jacobson '87, P'23, Soledad O'Brien P'24, and Angela Robinson '92 lead a behind-the-scenes discussion on their careers, diversifying the entertainment industry, and the importance of female mentorship. Moderated by Resa E. Lewiss '92. INDUSTRY NIGHT: GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS Featuring Tiara T. Mack ’16, Rhode Island State Senator, Andrea M. O’Neal ’03, Public Servant & Institutional Equity Expert, Kim Wright-King ’90, Non-Immigrant Visa Deputy Chief, US Consulate in Sao Paulo, Brazil, and Fatemeh Ziai ’86, Director of Coordination for the Department of Political and Peacebuilding Affairs and the Department of Peace Operations at the United Nations. INDUSTRY NIGHT: CLIMATE CHANGE AND SUSTAINABILITY Featuring Noel Pacarro Brown ‘02, Investing with Impact Director, Lead of the Conscious Wealth Management Group at Morgan Stanley, Priya R. Shah '07, General Partner, Theia Ventures, Mallory L. Taub '08, Senior Associate, Gensler, Cherise Guico Pabia '18, Business Sustainability Analyst, B Lab ALUMNAE AUTHOR SERIES: A VIRTUAL CONVERSATION WITH CHARLENE WANG '20 Join the Brown Women's Network for a virtual fireside chat between author Charlene Wang ’20 and Distinguished Senior Lecturer in Theatre Arts and Performance Studies, Barbara Tannenbaum as they discuss Wang's new book, Model Breakers: Breaking Through Stereotypes and Embracing Your Authenticity, exploring the intersection of self-awareness, identity, and minority stories. WOMEN IN WASHINGTON: LEADING IN TIMES OF CRISIS Senior leaders in the Biden administration explore the role of women in government and how they are navigating civil rights, education, and labor challenges during times of change, uncertainty, and intense political division. FACULTY SPOTLIGHT: Professor Nadje Al-Ali Professor Nadje Al-Ali, Director of Middle East Studies, Robert Family Professor of International Studies, and Professor of Anthropology and Middle East Studies discusses her research around feminist activism and gendered mobilization, with a focus on Iraq, Egypt, Lebanon, Turkey and the Kurdish political movement. INDUSTRY NIGHT: PUBLIC HEALTH Industry Night event offers current students and young alumnae an opportunity to connect with Brown alumnae who are leaders within Public Health as they discuss their work, including advice on getting hired, and the rewards and challenges of the field. ALUMNAE AUTHOR SERIES: SUNISA MANNING '07 This virtual “fireside chat” featured Sunisa Manning '07 and Mary-Kim Arnold '93, MFA '98 discussing Manning’s debut novel, A Good True Thai. (May 27, 2021) A NEW GENDER EQUITY AGENDA This virtual moderated discussion on gender equity and policy featured Jennifer Klein '87, P'22, Pamela Reeves '87, P'22 and Alex Wagner '99. (April 27, 2021) WOMEN WORKING FOR WOMEN This virtual panel discussion featured Brown alumnae working to help other women through organizations focused on education, maternal health, human trafficking, and health/nutrition. (March 18, 2021) ALUMNAE AUTHOR SERIES: AMRA SABIC-EL-RAYESS '00 Sabic-El-Rayess discussed her recently-released memoir, "The Cat I Never Named: A True Story of Love, War, and Survival," and her journey from teenage survivor of the Bosnian War to Brown student and eventually college professor. (February 11, 2021) FACULTY SPOTLIGHT: SEX MATTERS IN MEDICINE Alyson J. McGregor, M.D. RES '07 discussed tips on taking control of your medical care and treatment as well as her recently published book “Sex Matters: How Male-Centric Medicine Endangers Women's Health and What We Can Do About It.” (January 25, 2021) PRACTICING SELF-CARE AND LAUGHTER The virtual “fireside chat” featured Tara Schuster ’08 and Lauren Corrao ’83, P’16. The former Comedy Central colleagues discussed Tara’s new book “Buy Yourself the F*cking Lilies”, self-care, and navigating the time we’re living in. (January 7, 2021) VIRTUAL HOLIDAY CONCERT Alumnae musicians performed songs of cultural or personal significance. (December 18, 2020) Show More To get on the invitation list for future events, make sure your alumni profile is up to date. Programs & Initiatives Back to Top Women’s Voices Amplified Podcast Series A podcast of incredible women from all corners of the Brown ecosystem sharing their insights on work, life, and living in today’s world. Listen and subscribe on Spotify, Stitcher, SoundCloud, YouTube, Apple Podcasts, or Amazon. The views expressed in this podcast do not necessarily represent those of Brown University. https://www.youtube.com/embed/gcRyzn5f1jY Latest episode Entrepreneur Jennifer Gomez '08 on being a boss, building a company, and the importance of community. Learn more about Gomez and view the transcript More recent guests include: Alumni & Friends Miranda ADEkoje '04: Writer, Producer, and Actor September 22, 2021 In this episode of the Women’s Voices Amplified podcast, ADEkoje discusses producing art amidst the pandemic, the political relevance of her work, and how Brown’s Open Curriculum empowered her to construct her own career path. Read Article Open details for Miranda ADEkoje &#039;04: Writer, Producer, and Actor Alumni & Friends Valerie Tutson '87 AM'90: Storyteller and Artist June 8, 2021 Tutson reflects on the global influences that have inspired her, the healing power of stories that connect us with our past, and how her independent concentration at Brown allowed her to find her path. Read Article Open details for Valerie Tutson &#039;87 AM&#039;90: Storyteller and Artist Alumni & Friends Lorine Pendleton '91: Attorney and Venture Capitalist March 12, 2021 Recently named one of the “50 most connected women in America” by Marie Claire, Pendleton has put her varied career experiences to work investing in and advising women and diverse-led businesses. Read Article Open details for Lorine Pendleton &#039;91: Attorney and Venture Capitalist Alumni & Friends Ana M. Bermúdez ’86, P’22 on social justice in the criminal justice system September 11, 2020 This episode of the Women’s Voices Amplified podcast features a conversation with New York City Department of Probation Commissioner Ana M. Bermúdez ’86, P’22 on the essential link between criminal justice and social justice, how her experience at Brown shaped her, and the importance of using our voices. Read Article Open details for Ana M. Bermúdez ’86, P’22 on social justice in the criminal justice system Alumni & Friends Kristin Richardson Jordan ’09: Civic leader November 17, 2020 In this episode of the Women’s Voices Amplified podcast, Almaz S. Dessie '07 MD'11 F'17 speaks with Kristin Richardson Jordan ’09 about her recent run for New York City Council, the late-night conversations at Brown that helped shape her worldview, and what we can all do to affect change locally.* Read Article Open details for Kristin Richardson Jordan ’09: Civic leader Alumni & Friends Nancy K. MacLean ’81 AM’81 on the significance of understanding our history February 8, 2021 In this episode of the Women’s Voices Amplified podcast, Ellen Hunter ’04 speaks with historian, author, and professor Nancy K. MacLean ’81 AM’81 about social movements, the state of our democracy, and how history can inform the present. Read Article Open details for Nancy K. MacLean ’81 AM’81 on the significance of understanding our history Alumni & Friends Lois Lowry ’58 on the power of noticing October 17, 2019 This latest episode of Brown Blasts: Women's Voices Amplified features an interview with the award-winning author of more than 40 books, including The Giver, about her creative process, her advice for writers, her new book, and more. Read Article Open details for Lois Lowry ’58 on the power of noticing Alumni & Friends Meg Wolitzer ’81 on the importance of fiction November 18, 2019 This latest episode of Brown Blasts: Women's Voices Amplified features a conversation with New York Times bestselling author Meg Wolitzer that ranges from falling under the spell of a book, to why listening matters, and what she learned from working with Nora Ephron. Read Article Open details for Meg Wolitzer ’81 on the importance of fiction Alumni & Friends Dr. Teena Shetty ’95 MD’00 on concussions and compassionate care February 28, 2020 In this episode of Women’s Voices Amplified, neurologist Teena Shetty ’95 MD’00 shares her thoughts on the human element in medicine, the importance of female mentorship, and how Brown helped shape her worldview. Read Article Open details for Dr. Teena Shetty ’95 MD’00 on concussions and compassionate care Women’s Launch Pad Mentoring Program The Women’s Launch Pad pairs junior and senior class undergraduate women with Brown alumnae mentors, connecting women across generations, career paths, and all aspects of life after Brown. Become a mentor Social Media Back to Top Connect with the Brown Women's Network on: Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Recent Newsletters Back to Top Stay in-the-know with news from Brown, alumnae, faculty, and students. See past issues: June 2021 November 2020 February 2020 November 2019 August 2019 April 2019 More Brown Resources Back to Top We want to keep you connected to women’s programming offered at Brown. The Pembroke Center for Teaching & Research on Women Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Here are some ways to stay informed, tools you can utilize for career and relocation assistance, and groups of like-minded alumni you can join to get you started. BrownConnect internship and alumni-to-alumni networking platform Career Counseling through CareerLAB for up to three years following your graduation Access to e-journals and library resources (including Sage, JSTOR, and more) Welcome Kits with tips on things to do and how to stay connected to the Brown community in NYC, DC, LA, SF, or Boston Brown Alumni and Friends on social media Contact Back to Top Questions? Ideas? We want to hear from you! The Brown Women’s Network welcomes your input as we aim to connect and engage Brown’s vibrant alumnae community. Do you know an alumna who should be featured in an upcoming article, podcast, and/or event? Let us know! For more information, questions, or submissions, email: womensnetwork@brown.edu The Brown Women’s Network is proudly sponsored by the Women's Leadership Council, a presidential advisory council committed to alumnae engagement, volunteerism, and philanthropic support of the University. Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown Women’s Network Open details for Brown Women’s Network Bookmark this Page