Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Giving to Harvard Thank you for considering a gift to Harvard University. If you have questions or need assistance making a gift, you can call 800-VERITAS (837-4827). Online By Mail Planning a Gift Menu Main menu Giving Overview Give Online Planned Giving Gifts That Pay You Income Lead Trusts Assets You Can Give Events Harvard Planned Gift Administration Resources Meet the Staff Contact Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Types of Bequests How to Make a Bequest Benefits of a Bequest Future Use Attorney & Advisor Info Gift Policy Guide Tax Information FAQ Giving Contacts How to Make a Gift There are several ways to make a gift. If you would like to make a gift today to the University, Schools, or affiliates, you may do so by credit card, stock transfer, or mutual fund transfer using our online giving forms. If you would like to plan a gift for the future, learn more about bequests, gifts that pay you income, Lead Trusts, and other Assets you can give through our Planned Giving office. Give Now Make a gift today to the University, Schools, or affiliates using our secure giving forms. Federal Tax ID# ‌04-2103580 Online Make a gift now by credit card, stock transfer, or mutual fund transfer using our online giving forms. Matching Gifts Find out if your employer will match your gift using our Matching Gift Program Search. Stocks In addition to making a gift now by credit card, you can also make a stock transfer or mutual fund transfer using our online giving forms. Learn more. Bank Wire Bank wire instructions for charitable gifts only to President and Fellows of Harvard College. Receiving Bank Name: Bank of America, N.A. Receiving Bank Address: 100 Federal Street, Boston, MA 02110 Beneficiary Legal Account Name: President & Fellows of Harvard College - RSO Account Account #: 009429263621 Receiving Bank ACH ABA: 011000138 Receiving Bank Wire ABA: 026009593 Receiving Bank SWIFT Code: BOFAUS3N Memo/Reference: Fundraiser 5-Digit Phone # (e.g. X-XXXX), Donor Last Name, Gift Designation Important To ensure accurate handling, donors should send a confirmation email to ADS@harvard.edu with the following details: Donor Name Contact Phone Number Date the wire was sent Name of the originating bank Amount of the bank wire Was a wiring fee deducted from the wire amount? Mail Please complete our check donation form, print it and enclose with a check payable to: "President and Fellows of Harvard College." In the check's memo section, please designate the allocation of the gift. Example allocations include: Harvard College Fund Divinity School Annual Fund Business School John A. Smith Scholarship Fund Checks should be mailed to: Harvard University PO Box 419209 Boston, MA 02241-9209 For donors choosing Fedex or UPS: Bank of America Lockbox Services President & Fellows of Harvard College Box 419209 2 Morrissey Blvd MA5-527-02-07 Dorchester, MA 02125 Planned Giving By making a planned gift, you can make a significant gift to Harvard to address some of the world’s most pressing issues through cutting-edge research and the education of tomorrow’s leaders--and gain financial and tax benefits for you and your family. Bequest Learn about the types of bequests, benefits, sample language and more by visiting the Bequests section of our web site. Gifts That Pay You Income Life income plans enable you to make a meaningful gift to Harvard while receiving significant income and tax benefits. There are several different types of life income gift arrangements available. These include charitable remainder trusts, gift annuities, and pooled income funds. Lead Trusts With a charitable lead trust, you can make annual gifts to support an area of interest to you at Harvard for a term of years, typically between 10 and 20. Other Assets You Can Give There are many assets that may be used to fund a significant gift to Harvard, including appreciated securities, real estate, personal property, business interests, retirement plans, life insurance, and many others. Donor Advised Funds A donor advised fund (DAF) is a charitable giving program that allows you to combine the most favorable tax benefits with the flexibility to support your favorite causes. If you have a donor advised fund, DAF Direct enables you to recommend grants to this nonprofit directly from your DAF (as long as your DAF's sponsoring organization is participating). Explore the following DAF options (login required): Fidelity Charitable Schwab Charitable BNY Mellon Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College