Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Gift Planning Gifts of Real Estate Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers By making a gift of real estate, you can leverage a significant asset for your benefit and the College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, or the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. You can save on taxes, increase your income, and reduce the burden of maintaining or selling your property, and make a significant gift to Harvard. Gifts can be made with residential, commercial, or undeveloped real estate. Types of Gifts You can make an outright gift of either a percentage interest or an entire property. By funding a trust or annuity with your gift, you can receive a well-managed income stream for life for you, your spouse, or other beneficiaries. You also receive an income tax deduction for a portion of your gift, avoid capital gains tax, and save on gift and estate taxes. In the future, your gift will benefit Harvard as you choose, including a named endowment fund. Through a retained life estate arrangement, you can donate your home to Harvard and continue to live there for your lifetime. You are entitled to an immediate income tax deduction for a portion of the appraised value. Moreover, the property is removed from your estate for tax purposes. Should you decide to move out of your home, you and Harvard can sell the property together and divide the proceeds proportionately. Alternatively, you may be able to transfer your remaining life interest to Harvard in exchange for an annuity. Contact Us Email: ogp@harvard.edu Phone: 617-496-3205 or 1-800-VERITAS (ask for the Office of Gift Planning) Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College