Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Clemson Ring Ceremony You are here: Home1 / Clemson Ring Ceremony Clemson Ring Ceremony Fall 2022 Ring Ceremony October 30, 2022 Littlejohn Coliseum Clemson, South Carolina Students who have completed 90 or more earned hours on their official transcript and purchased the official Clemson Ring during Ring Week are eligible to attend the Ring Ceremony. Graduate students who have completed half of their required hours may also purchase their ring and participate in the ceremony. Students planning to participate will be required to secure tickets to the event. Ticket details will be shared during Ring Week. The Ring Ceremony is intended for those Clemson students and former students who have earned a minimum of 90 earned hours and who have purchased their class ring from the exclusive manufacturer of the Clemson Ring. Ceremony Times and Assignments Ceremony times will be announced after ticket reservations have concluded. Ceremony assignments cannot be changed. Only students who reserved a ticket by the deadline will be allowed to participate in the ceremony. If you or your guest have handicap accessibility needs, please email cualumni@clemson.edu. Each participant (student) is assigned a specific seat in the venue. Seating assignments, the section and seat number, are included on the Participant’s Tickets. Each student is required to sit in this assigned seat as this assignment is directly connected to your Clemson Ring, therefore participant tickets cannot be exchanged or traded with another participant. Student/Participant – Ticket Pickup: Participants will receive information about ticket pickup at a later date. Students/participants who arrive at the ceremony without a reserved ticket will not be allowed to attend. Important safety information for you and your guests: In the event state, local and university COVID protocols change, requirements may change. Hand sanitizer stations will be available throughout the facility and the facility will be thoroughly cleaned between ceremonies. There is currently no limit on the number of guests each student may bring to the ceremony, however in the event state, local and university COVID protocols change, the number of guests allowed may be limited. Guests currently are not required to have a ticket. No Bags Policy: No bags will be allowed by guests or students participating in the ceremony. Additional Details & Updates: Live Streaming Available: All ceremonies will be broadcast live and viewable at: tv.clemson.edu. A photograph of you will be available for purchase from a professional photography service. An email will be sent to you after the ceremony from Grad Images with details about how to order your photos. If you or your guest(s) require handicap accessibility, please indicate those needs in your ticket reservation form or send an email to cualumni@clemson.edu. Attire: Students, parents and guests are asked to dress business professional. (i.e. suits, collared shirts with dress pants or skirts, a nice dress.) Arriving at the ceremony: Doors will open 60 minutes prior to each ceremony. Guests are asked to exit the venue immediately after each ceremony to allow for setup for the next ceremony. Students MUST be in their seats at least 15 minutes prior to the ceremony start time. We will begin promptly at the advertised start time. Students will enter through the building’s loading dock. Students will be directed via signage and staff to the back of the building where each student must present their ticket for entrance. After the ceremony, all students will exit the building through this same entrance and receive their Ring Crest Glass, a congratulatory gift from the Clemson Alumni Association and the Student Alumni Council. Students will find their section and seat number on their ticket and must be seated as quickly as possible. Please refrain from leaving your seat, unless otherwise directed, during the ceremony if at all possible. Guests will enter the arena through the main entrances of venue. Not Participating in the Fall Ring Ceremony? How You Will Receive Your Ring: Students living on campus or locally will pick up their rings at the Clemson Alumni Center (109 Daniel Drive) the day after the ceremony from 10:00 am – 4:00 pm. Students will enter the main doors at the Alumni Center through the Business School side of the building and follow directional signs and social distance safety measures to pick up rings. Students taking classes remotely this semester can have their rings mailed to them. Please email the Clemson Alumni Association at cualumni@clemson.edu and let us know your name, CU ID and order number. Your ring will be mailed to the address on your ring order form after the Ring Ceremony. This process takes approximately three weeks. Text Updates Each student will receive text messages through Remind Updates for their assigned Ring Ceremony. *If you have previously opted out of Remind messages and you would like to receive text updates in the event that there are changes or updates to your Ring Ceremony, please check your email on details of how to sign up to receive text messages. Please note: Standard text message rates apply IMPORTANT COVID INFORMATION: Due to the unique circumstances presented by COVID-19, necessary adjustments may be made prior to the event, including restricted access and cancellation of this event. By voluntarily choosing to attend Clemson Alumni Association sponsored events, you voluntarily assume all risks associated with COVID-19 exposure and infection, and you agree to comply with all current health and safety requirements issued by Clemson University and/or state, local or federal governmental entities while in attendance at Clemson Alumni Association and other sponsored events. It is your responsibility to consult with your medical care providers about whether attending Clemson Club or other sponsored events is appropriate for you and if you should take any further steps to protect your health and safety given your personal health history. The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak has been declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization. COVID-19 presents inherent risks to your health regardless of the care exercised by Clemson University. Additional information on COVID-19 can be found at: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/ And, Clemson’s website www.clemson.edu/coronavirus Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info