Sorry, we are unable to supply content for this web page, either because the Internet security on your browser is set to high, or because you have disabled Javascript. For information on how to change these settings in your browser, please see the Help page Welcome | Register | Log In Entire Site Discussions Groups Trips Magazine Events Stanford Alumni Community Classes, Groups & Clubs Alumni Directory Discussions Book Salon Students Young Alumni Activities Reunions Events Where I Live Travel/Study Sierra Camp & Programs On Campus Resources Alumni Career Services Alumni Email & Directory Perks Membership Your Alumni Center Alumni Center Event Planning News & Views Magazine Learn Subscriptions Stanford Links Volunteering Stanford Associates Leadership Beyond the Farm Trustee Nominations Dashboard My Profile My Messages My Friends My Events My Groups My Gallery Magazine Home Current Issue Back Issues Classifieds Podcasts Search Magazine Contact Us Alumni Association Read the new issue >>>> Photo: O'Connell & Rodwell Living Large M agnificent animals. Extraordinary insights. Peeing in a Tupperware container. It's all part of the deal for a research team in Namibia. Read more Photo: Patrick Tehan Bullets, Blood and Ice P rofessor-prospector Dennis Bird shares gritty lessons from the land. Read more Photo: Jim Gensheimer Your Computer May Know You Have Parkinson's. Shall It Tell You? E ric Horvitz's algorithms may someday save your life. Read more With the elephants Earth bound Your computer, your medical advisor Online Only Our new podcast, STANFORD Out Loud, features tales on topics ranging from Victorian-era hanky-panky to the unsolved murder of Jane Stanford, told by members of the campus community. Want our inside story on the Stanford Prison Experiment? Wondering about Stanford's connection to the invention of the motion picture? Listen in. SAGE Sound Advice for a Green Earth Advanced students from the environmental sciences, engineering and journalism answer your sustainability questions. Explore recent questions and answers here. Puzzle Double Entry Solve our latest Stanford puzzle for Cardinal bragging rights. More Online Exclusives » From the Archives The Play That Never Dies Three decades later, the Play is the subject of a new documentary. A look back at our own remembrance of perhaps the craziest ending in football history. Talk to Us Change your address Send a letter to the editor Submit an obituary Ask an eco-question Write your class correspondent Tell your classmates what you've been up to. More » Follow us: Most Viewed What's Hot Bullets, Blood and Ice July 2018 43 views Obituaries May 2018 35 views Obituaries July 2018 33 views Movie Maven with a Mission July 2018 25 views Trustee Extraordinaire July 2018 25 views Data is from the past two weeks. Bullets, Blood and Ice July 2018 Obituaries May 2018 Obituaries July 2018 Movie Maven with a Mission July 2018 Trustee Extraordinaire July 2018 July 2018 Geology Professor Dennis Bird Elephant Research Photographer Mary Jo Hoffman Artificial Intelligence Pioneer Eric Horvitz About Us | University Homepage | Giving to Stanford | Contact Us | Help | Accessibility | Code of Conduct | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use