Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Undergraduates Awards and Scholarships The Harvard Alumni Association oversees the application and nomination process for special awards and scholarships given to current students at Harvard College. Learn more about how you can nominate a student for one of these opportunities. Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Harvard Alumni Travels Spring Break Scholarship Travel with Harvard Alumni Travels on the spring break program with fellow students, alumni, and a Harvard professor. This program offers a unique intergenerational experience, bringing history to life. Special rates and travel scholarship opportunities are available for current Harvard College students. Learn more about the Spring Break Travel Scholarship Harvard Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Established in 1992, the Summer Community Service Fellowship (HSCS) program allows the Harvard Alumni Association Clubs and Shared Interest Groups to provide funding to Harvard College students who are working to improve their communities over summer break. The program provides one of the largest sources of funding for summer public service for Harvard College undergraduates. Applications for summer 2022 are due March 1, 2022. Learn more about the HSCS Fellowship Program The David and Mimi Aloian Memorial Scholarship The David and Mimi Aloian Memorial Scholarship is an award given to current juniors, with scholarships to be used during senior year, who have made significant contributions that have positively changed the quality of life for House members. The criteria for the awards reflect the traits valued and embodied by the late David and Mimi Aloian: thoughtful leadership that makes the College an exciting place in which to live and study, with special contributions to the quality of life in the Houses. David Aloian, Class of 1949, worked tirelessly for Harvard and the Alumni Association. As executive director of the HAA from 1978 until his death in 1986, he made the HAA more open and inclusive. In addition, David and his wife, Mary "Mimi" Aloian, guided Quincy House with grace and inspiration as deans from 1981 to 1986. While a student at Harvard, David experienced firsthand what the Houses could do to expand the horizons of College students. Later, as faculty dean, he dedicated himself to the ideal that the Houses should not only be homes but communities for intellectual and social growth. To honor David and Mimi Aloian's achievements and memory and to recognize the importance of House life at Harvard College, the HAA established the Aloian Memorial Scholarships in 1987. Each year, the HAA selects two current juniors to receive an Aloian Memorial Scholarship for use in their senior year. Learn about the 2022 nomination and selection process View past scholarship recipients The Richard Glover Ames and Henry Russell Ames Award The Ames Award is given to seniors who have shown heroic character and energy with helping others and whose substantial contributions may not have been acknowledged. This prestigious honor is granted to two members of the senior class during the Class Day Exercises on the day before Commencement. The goal of this award is to honor two unsung heroes of the class. On June 19, 1935, Richard Glover Ames and Henry Russell Ames, brothers and Harvard students, gave their lives to save their father, who was washed overboard during a storm off the coast of Newfoundland. Every year since, the Ames Award has been given in their memory to recognize two seniors who have shown energy in helping others and who exhibit the same heroic character and inspiring leadership of the Ames brothers. Learn about the 2022 nomination and selection process View past award recipients Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College