Skip to main content ncstate-alumni-wolf-web Alumni Association Menu Close About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Caldwell Fellows facebook twitter linked in email About About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine NC State Magazine Merchandise Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Caldwell Fellows Leading the Pack The Alumni Association supports the Caldwell Fellows through scholarship endowments and program support. The Caldwell Fellows program fills the unique niche of identifying and developing a highly promising and widely diverse group of students for service-based leadership. Great minds and open hearts, plus a talent for leadership and creative problem solving, are marks of those selected to be Caldwell Fellows. Through a rigorous selection process each spring, new Fellows are selected from the freshman class that entered NC State the previous fall (or first-year students with less than 30 credit hours at NC State). “You just don’t know how magnificent you might be. Think big.” — John Tyler Caldwell, NC State Chancellor (1959-1975). Fellows receive a financial award that includes a tuition stipend, along with annual enrichment stipends for experiences in cross-cultural immersion and service, global leadership development, individual and professional development, and social entrepreneurship. Key features of the experience include: A diverse and highly engaged learning community, which meets regularly through monthly dinner seminars, class retreats and shared service-learning endeavors. A three-hour honors-credit leadership seminar for sophomores. Service-learning teams that engage each fellow in ongoing work with community partner agencies. Intensive, individualized leadership and life coaching with a team of Triangle-area executive coaches. Roles of responsibility that allow students to develop applied leadership skills. Campus service ventures, created and maintained by Caldwell Fellows, including WE Recycle, NC State’s recycling program at Carter-Finley football games; SATELLITE, a five-day science and technology camp for N.C. high schoolers; and the Campus Farmers Market. Capstone leadership training at the Center for Creative Leadership. Outward Bound model 10-day Wilderness Expedition. Annual international service-learning excursions. Meaningful engagement with program alumni through networking, internships and an annual Alumni/Fellows Gala. Support the Caldwell Fellows Alumni Association Home Campus Box 7503 NC State University Raleigh NC 27695-7503 919.515.3375 Campus Map About Membership Events Engagement News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.