Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Athletics Through gifts to the Brown University Sports Foundation, we're supporting our scholar-athletes on and off the field. Breadcrumb Home Giving Sub Navigation In This Section How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Athletics Through gifts to the Brown University Sports Foundation, we're supporting our scholar-athletes on and off the field. A team effort Brown Athletics is a cornerstone of the University. And it's made possible by our community of dedicated supporters. Gifts to the Brown University Sports Foundation (BUSF) help our programs achieve a competitive edge. By giving to athletics, you'll be providing support for: The scholar-athletes who achieve and lead in the classroom, in competition, and in the community. The coaches who inspire and mentor. The facilities where the spirit of competition is palpable. Ways to Support Brown Athletics Current-Use Giving Gifts to the BUSF Athletics Annual Fund provide the immediate-use support that allows our teams to thrive. When you make a current-use gift, you're helping enhance every part of the student-athlete experience. Endowments Endowment funds are crucial for the longevity and resilience of Brown Athletics. There are two ways you can support varsity teams and club sports through endowed giving: programmatic endowments and coaching endowments. Capital Gifts Enhancing training and playing facilities is essential to recruiting top athletes and strengthening the student-athlete experience for current Bears. Capital giving provides state-of-the-art facilities in which student-athletes can train, compete, recover, and study. Donors who give to any part of athletics for two or more consecutive years are recognized with membership in Loyal Bears. Give to Brown Athletics. Make an impact by supporting the Sports Foundation. MAKE A GIFT Athletics Annual Fund How to make an immediate impact for Brown’s student-athletes. Sports Foundation Donor Recognition Through our Loyal Bears program, we're recognizing the dedicated donors who support Brown Athletics year after year. Want more information on how you can support today's Brown student-athletes? Contact the Sports Foundation at: +1 (401) 863-1900 or sports_foundation@brown.edu Related Stories Alumni & Friends Upping our game March 25, 2022 BrownTogether has already helped elevate Brown’s Division of Athletics and Recreation. M. Grace Calhoun ’92, the division’s new vice president, is determined to keep the momentum going. Read Article Open details for Upping our game Alumni & Friends Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign November 2, 2021 Having reached its target more than a year ahead of schedule, the University will continue raising funds for student scholarships and faculty research, while establishing new goals in the months to come. Read Article Open details for Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign Alumni & Friends #GoBruno: Brunonians at the Tokyo Olympics July 21, 2021 Congratulations and best of luck to all the Brunonians who are in Tokyo for the Olympic Games! Read Article Open details for #GoBruno: Brunonians at the Tokyo Olympics Alumni & Friends Football gets a modern home field advantage June 16, 2021 The Richard Gouse Field at Brown Stadium makes the jump to a new playing surface, giving football a “play fast” competitive home base. Read Article Open details for Football gets a modern home field advantage News from Brown Nationally recognized head of Penn athletics M. Grace Calhoun to lead athletics and recreation at Brown March 5, 2021 A varsity student-athlete who graduated in Brown’s Class of 1992, Calhoun will serve in a newly elevated role of vice president of athletics and recreation, beginning April 19, 2021. Read Article Open details for Nationally recognized head of Penn athletics M. Grace Calhoun to lead athletics and recreation at Brown Alumni & Friends A look back: 2020 highlights December 7, 2020 From providing emergency support to students during a global pandemic to game-changing research in malaria, we're looking back at some important accomplishments supported by Brown donors in a year that was anything but ordinary. Read Article Open details for A look back: 2020 highlights Related Information Brown Athletics on Facebook Brown Athletics Website Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Athletics Open details for Athletics Bookmark this Page