Skip to main content Menu Close Cornellians Home Stories Alumni Campus & Beyond Students Research Ask the Expert Cornelliana Books From the President Alumni Community Class Notes Updates from Alumni In Memoriam The Latest More from Cornell About Row Follow us on Twitter Like us on Instagram Like us on Facebook Like us on LinkedIn Search search Alumni Parents & Family Students Services Cornellians Follow us on Twitter Like us on Facebook Like us on LinkedIn Like us on Instagram Alumni Parents & Family Students Services Cornellians Follow us on Twitter Like us on Facebook Like us on LinkedIn Like us on Instagram Search search Search search Home Stories Alumni Campus & Beyond Students Research Ask the Expert Cornelliana Books From the President Alumni Community Class Notes Updates from Alumni In Memoriam The Latest More from Cornell About Ask the Expert Looking to Negotiate Your Next Job? An ILR Prof Has Some Top Tips Organizational behavior expert Alice Lee offers advice on how to bargain for a higher salary, remote work, and more ‘I Want to Open People’s Eyes’: Tips From an Art Historian Janetta Rebold Benton ’67 wrote the book—literally—on how to understand art The ABCs of C-A-Ts Cornell veterinarian Bruce Kornreich, DVM ’92, PhD ’05, offers expert insight on all things feline ‘What’s Your Purpose in Life?’ Psychology Prof Explains Why that Question Makes All the Difference Anthony Burrow heads a campus lab devoted to understanding purpose’s role—and how to leverage it for the greater good Exploring the Widening Chasm Between Urban and Rural Voters A team led by government professor Suzanne Mettler, PhD ’94, seeks to understand the factors at play in this red-blue divide How’s the Hospitality Industry Doing? A Hotelie Weighs In Stephani Robson ’88, MS ’99, PhD ’10, shares her insights on topics from the restaurant labor crunch to the demise of daily room cleanings The Ins and Outs of Immigration Law Cornell professor, attorney, and immigration advocate Stephen Yale-Loehr ’77, JD ’81, weighs in on a complex topic Public Speaking Tips from a Communication Prof Need to make a presentation at work? Give a toast or deliver a eulogy? Jodi Cohen tells you how A Weill Cornell Medicine Doc on Aiding COVID-Era Back Pain Dr. Jaspal Ricky Singh talks with Cornellians about how pandemic restrictions and telework have sparked a mini-epidemic of upper back ailments—and offers tips for staying healthy. ‘Ruff Going’ with Your Pandemic Pup? A Big Red Vet Has Answers Dr. Pamela Perry—a canine behavior expert and “triple Red” alum—offers advice on transitioning your four-legged friends back to work life. Posts navigation Archive Page 1 Archive Page 2 Next Contact 312 College Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 (607) 255-2700 cornellians@cornell.edu About Cornellians: Cornell’s new, digital-first alumni publication FAQ Alumni Advisers More Information Alumni Services Volunteer Events Cornell Store Come back to Cornell Reunion Homecoming Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Copyright Website Accessibility Row Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter