Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Brown Annual Fund As one of the University's most powerful giving vehicles, the Brown Annual Fund provides the immediate-use support that fuels the Brown experience. Breadcrumb Home Giving Sub Navigation In This Section How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund The Brown Fund Brown Medical Annual Fund School of Engineering Annual Fund School of Public Health Annual Fund Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund BrownConnect Fund IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Campus Sustainability Fund Athletics Annual Fund Reunion & Class Giving Ever True Sustainers Volunteer Appreciation Month Phone Wallpapers Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Brown Annual Fund As one of the University's most powerful giving vehicles, the Brown Annual Fund provides the immediate-use support that fuels the Brown experience. Making Brown accessible to the most talented students from all backgrounds. Keeping the University innovative and competitive. Ensuring our commitment to academic excellence and service to society. The Brown Annual Fund does all that, and much more. With its immediate-use funds, it empowers the University to nimbly respond to today's most pressing needs and emerging opportunities. Where to Give The Annual Fund is a "family of funds" that encompasses Brown's annual giving opportunities. Together, these funds touch nearly every nook and cranny of life at Brown. The Brown Fund From academics to campus-wide programs to financial aid, The Brown Fund supports the University where it's most needed. Visit Page Open details for The Brown Fund Athletics Annual Fund How to make an immediate impact for Brown’s student-athletes. Visit Page Open details for Athletics Annual Fund Impact Funds Each impact fund will strengthen a specific, high-priority initiative of the University. For Brown Annual Fund supporters, it offers targeted philanthropic opportunities to support presidential initiatives that align with their interests. Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund Creating an inclusive, diverse, and vibrant academic community at Brown. Visit Page Open details for Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund BrownConnect Fund Ensuring all students have access to summer internships and research experiences. Visit Page Open details for BrownConnect Fund IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Driven by the alumni community, the Inman Page Black Alumni Council (IPC) Brown Annual Fund Scholarship is helping support Black students at Brown. Visit Page Open details for IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Campus Sustainability Fund Reducing our carbon footprint and making Brown a net-zero energy campus. Visit Page Open details for Campus Sustainability Fund Professional School Funds These school-specific funds directly support the individual priorities of each professional school. The Brown Medical Annual Fund, the School of Public Health Annual Fund, and the School of Engineering Annual Fund are the bedrock of our professional schools' immediate-use initiatives. Brown Medical Annual Fund Through Annual Fund support, we're educating the next generation of physician leaders at The Warren Alpert Medical School. Visit Page Open details for Brown Medical Annual Fund School of Engineering Annual Fund With the help of its annual fund, the School of Engineering continues to be a leader in education and drive advancements in research and learning. Visit Page Open details for School of Engineering Annual Fund Public Health Annual Fund With Annual Fund support, we're helping to advance the School of Public Health's high impact work in improving human health for all. Visit Page Open details for Public Health Annual Fund More about the Annual Fund Reunion & Class Giving Reunions are more than just an opportunity to reconnect with old classmates. It’s an opportunity to commemorate your Brown experience by paying it forward. LEARN MORE → Parent & Family Giving We wouldn't be here without the love and support of our families. Together, they've made our parent and family giving program one of the best in the country. LEARN MORE → Recognition Societies Loyalty and generosity: Brown Annual Fund donors sustain the University's reputation for academic excellence. LEARN MORE → Volunteer Opportunities There are other ways to give back. With their gifts of time and talent, our Annual Fund volunteers are helping our community grow year after year. LEARN MORE → Related Stories Alumni & Friends 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day April 14, 2022 Want to help make this Brunonians Pay It Forward Day our biggest yet? Here’s how you can get involved and spread the word about this giving day. Read Article Open details for 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day Alumni & Friends Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 April 3, 2022 This year’s giving day saw the Brown community help raise more than $2.6 million for the Brown Annual Fund. Read Article Open details for Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 Alumni & Friends Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign November 2, 2021 Having reached its target more than a year ahead of schedule, the University will continue raising funds for student scholarships and faculty research, while establishing new goals in the months to come. Read Article Open details for Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown Annual Fund Open details for Brown Annual Fund Bookmark this Page