Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Affinity Groups You are here: Home1 / Get Involved2 / Affinity Groups Clemson Black Alumni Council Clemson Black Alumni Council (CBAC) is the official affinity group for African American alumni and friends who wish to support the initiatives of the affinity group. Clemson Chinese Alumni Council The purpose of the CCAC is to create an environment that promotes networking among Chinese Alumni, through the organization of engaging events and exciting activities. Clemson Corps Join fellow current students and the alumni association in celebrating Clemson, its students and its alumni through protecting and exemplifying long-standing traditions and honoring those who have made a difference for Clemson. Clemson LGBTQ+ Alumni Council Clemson LGBTQ+ Alumni Council is the official affinity group for Clemson LGBTQ alumni and friends who wish to support the initiatives of the affinity group. Clemson MBA Alumni Society The MBA Alumni Society maintains and strengthens relationships among Clemson University, its MBA Alumni, and its MBA Students by providing professional and social events to ensure the continued excellence of Clemson’s graduate business program. Clemson Meal Clubs Clemson Meal Clubs were established in areas in SC that have large concentration of alumni, friends and fans of Clemson to provide an opportunity for networking, building relationships and learning about new initiatives. Clemson University Tiger Band Association Stay connected to former Clemson band members, friends and supporters to remain a part of the spirit of the Clemson band. Construction Science and Management Alumni Association The Construction Science and Management Alumni Association grew out of the efforts of the current CSM Industry Advisory Board to connect individuals within the field to each other and to their alma mater. Diversity Resources Learn more about the diversity resources that are available through Clemson University. Hispanic and Latinx Alumni Council The purpose of the Hispanic and Latinx Alumni Council (HLAC) is to plan and implement programs and events that are mutually beneficial to Hispanic and Latins alumni, friends and undergraduates of Clemson University. HLAC works to inform, involve, and serve all as it promotes Clemson University by recognizing academic excellence through scholarships. ONE Clemson ONE Clemson is a group of former Clemson Athletes and supporters who provide opportunities to connect and gather with Clemson’s finest former athletes while raising scholarship funds, providing support for student-athlete professional enrichment and fundraising for the Black Girls Golf program. Senior Platoon The Senior Platoon is made up of alumni of all of the classes that represented Clemson University as the Fast Cadence, Precision Drill Platoon. Student Alumni Association Join fellow current students and the alumni association in celebrating Clemson, its students and its alumni through protecting and exemplifying long-standing traditions and honoring those who have made a difference for Clemson. Student Alumni Council Meet the Student Alumni Council and learn more about SAC. Women’s Alumni Council Connect with Clemson alumnae at Clemson and across the country for events, fundraisers and celebrating Clemson. Young Alumni Council Now that you’ve tossed your tasseled cap, the Clemson Alumni Association would like to welcome you into a new phase in your lifetime as a Tiger. If you are interested in connecting with a Clemson Alumni Affinity Group, click here to start the contact update process and follow the directions in the video below on how to update your preferences. Affinity Groups Chinese Alumni Council Clemson Black Alumni Council Clemson Corps Construction Science Management Hispanic and Latinx Alumni Council International Clemson Alumni Representatives MBA Alumni Society Student Alumni Association Young Alumni Council Clemson Clubs Volunteer Opportunities Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info