Skip to main content Menu Close Cornellians Home Stories Alumni Campus & Beyond Students Research Ask the Expert Cornelliana Books From the President Alumni Community Class Notes Updates from Alumni In Memoriam The Latest More from Cornell About Row Follow us on Twitter Like us on Instagram Like us on Facebook Like us on LinkedIn Search search Alumni Parents & Family Students Services Cornellians Follow us on Twitter Like us on Facebook Like us on LinkedIn Like us on Instagram Alumni Parents & Family Students Services Cornellians Follow us on Twitter Like us on Facebook Like us on LinkedIn Like us on Instagram Search search Search search Home Stories Alumni Campus & Beyond Students Research Ask the Expert Cornelliana Books From the President Alumni Community Class Notes Updates from Alumni In Memoriam The Latest More from Cornell About Updates from Alumni This new section allows you to submit posts to Cornellians. Whether you've started a job, met up with fellow Big Red grads, or have other news to share, you can create a post by filling out the form here. All posts are subject to a brief review process; for posting guidelines, please see our FAQ. (Please note that in the search field, the drop-down menu only includes years for which there are existing posts. Search results currently include only updates tagged with class year. Search results that include College/School and Diverse Alumni Program tags are coming soon.) search Year 1961 1964 1968 1971 1979 1980 1988 1991 1993 1994 1998 2009 2011 search CLASS OF 1964 Barbara Rainard ’64 As a child I visited the Egyptian exhibit at New York’s Metropolitan Museum and was entranced, especially with the tiny figurines of people going about daily tasks. I became fascinated with archeology. Finally I decided I wanted to actually see Egypt’s ancient sites and my husband and I went on a Cornell alumni trip to Egypt in 2019. We started in Cairo, touring the ancient ruins, the museum, the lovely Coptic churches, a mosque, and a synagogue, as well as a visit to the souk. Then it was off to Luxor to more ancient sites, including the Valley of the Kings. Next were 4 days of sailing down the Nile in a dahabiya with stops in villages, temples, tombs, and quarries. We ended in Aswan with another temple, the dam, and an interesting Nubian museum. Our accommodations were luxurious, the food was great, and we got to see some of daily Egyptian life as well as the expected pyramids, etc. Our guides were highly informative and great company. And then came COVID! Our timing was just right. bjchemist@comcast.net CLASS OF 1993 Jeffrey Woodring ’93 I hung up the trading jacket 8/25/2020, retiring to spend more time with family. My wife, Nicole, started a new career: got her PT degree and is working as a therapist. Marra soph at Penn State, Parker starting at Cornell Fall 2023! (yes, he will play football) and Todd soph in high school. Though I have also been getting back to my college interests: VP of Sigma Nu alumni board, secretary of Friends of Cornell Football (the new booster club), and president of the high school football booster. I guess I haven’t grown up yet!? I spend a bunch of time with fish: boating / fishing on the Long Island Sound, stocking trout with the Burlington Fish Hatchery, doing fish surveys, and volunteering with Trout Unlimited. I also joined a men’s hockey team…a new appreciation for the Lynah skaters. I regularly see Greg Dinkin ’93, Marc Bruno ’93, and Tim Barry ’93, and plan to bond with many more for Reunion. teamwoodring@gmail.com CLASS OF 1991 Kimberley Best Robidoux ’91 Recently joined WR Immigration as Partner to open and lead the San Diego office! Looking forward to this new Chapter, at an incredible law firm and to working with an amazing team on employment-based immigration matters, including guiding employers with I-9 Employment Verification training, advice and audit defense. Excited to have been named Super Lawyers – Immigration – in San Diego for another year. Hard to believe we have been in San Diego for 18 years! kimbest@me.com CLASS OF 1993 Melissa Carver Sottile ’93 I came back to Cornell for Homecoming with my husband, Greg, & our two sons, Ethan (17) and Jack (15). We had a fantastic time, a great football game, meeting students & alumni, and touring the campus old & new. Brunch at the Statler brought an added surprise—a large display of photos over the years. It was a touching reminder of my late parents’ wedding reception there during the Thanksgiving blizzard of Nov. ’58! We continue to enjoy living in (& perpetually renovating) our antique home in this tiny rural town in CT’s northern hills. After 11 years teaching at UConn, I started a new chapter as a writer, researcher, & consultant in personal finance & fiscal policy. I love working from our back porch, a lazy Lab at my feet, watching a crocus or two peek through stubborn bits of snow amidst the songs of returning birds. It makes me miss sunny spring days on the Arts Quad with friends (and errant frisbees) and outdoor happy hour at Collegetown Bagels. Cheers! mtc2@cornell.edu Mathieu Laberge, MBA ’16 Matt Laberge is proud to announce he recently joined KPMG’s partnership. As a Partner and Regional Leader in KPMG’s Economics & Policy practice, Matt will continue to serve his private, not-for-profit, and government clients in resolving some of their most prominent challenges related to the economy, their market, and their policy environment! ml2382@cornell.edu CLASS OF 1971 Marc Grappel ’71 God bless all of you, especially all the friends and classmates that I have never heard from in fifty years. Hope you are all well. It’s been a very interesting and sinuous road to the present, and the story is still unfolding. My best memory, aside from those wonderful Big Red sunsets, was my discovery of the sculpture garden concrete creations from those early ’60s architecture students, and I visit them every year I return to Ithaca, mainly to take in the car races at Watkins Glen, as well as the state park there. Peace and love to you all. marcvette1949@yahoo.com CLASS OF 1993 John Sandford Rueppel ’93 I am happily ensconced in San Francisco with my wife, Aparna Venkatesan ’93, and two teenage sons. I am a partner at the law firm of Johnston, Kinney & Zulaica, LLP, trust and estates firm, where I handle trust and estates litigation. Happy to connect with all Bay Area alums interested in the law or trust and estates. jrueppel@gmail.com CLASS OF 1988 Diane Weisbrot Nagle ’88 Lots of changes! Left California (Redondo Beach) almost two years ago after 26 years, relocating to Clearwater, Florida. Married Tom Nagle (BU ’83) in January (we met at the ice rink I trained at in El Segundo, CA, as he was on layover from his commercial pilot job, skating on a public session and wearing a BU hockey jacket …). Bought a house in May and am totally enjoying sitting on our dock and bird watching. My son David Wing is to graduate USC this December and my daughter Kiana is working on college transfer applications; desperately trying to get her to move out to Florida with us. dwnagle@icloud.com CLASS OF 1993 Jennifer Barber Joyce ’93 I met up with Tri-Delta sisters from the 1990s in Alexandria, VA, in October 2021. It was so great to see Cristina Moeder Shaul ’91, Ariane Schreiber Horn ’91, JD ’96, Christine Bleyle Frank ’93, Melissa Turner Booth ’93, Lara Thornton Tabola ’93, Kimberly Martin-Epstein ’91, Corinne McKamey ’92, Jocelyn Spielman Turkel ’93, Mary Shelley ’96, Kristi Covert Tsiopanas ’94, ME ’95, Amy Lawrence Flueck ’91, Liz Baum Schnelzer ’91, Eileen McPeake ’90, Katherine Stifel ’87, Jill Fields ’88, and Lisa Stuart ’89. Ronda Hamm, PhD ’08 Ronda, Global Academic Relations Leader at Corteva Agriscience, was featured on the season three premier of CBS’s “Mission Unstoppable” television show. You can watch the episode here. Posts navigation Archive Page 1 Archive Page 2 Archive Page 3 Next Contact 312 College Avenue Ithaca, NY 14850 (607) 255-2700 cornellians@cornell.edu About Cornellians: Cornell’s new, digital-first alumni publication FAQ Alumni Advisers More Information Alumni Services Volunteer Events Cornell Store Come back to Cornell Reunion Homecoming Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Copyright Website Accessibility Row Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter