Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Giving Thanks to generous alumni, parents, and friends, today’s Brown is making a difference in the world that only Brown can make. Sub Navigation In This Section How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Giving Thanks to generous alumni, parents, and friends, today’s Brown is making a difference in the world that only Brown can make. Your support is helping Brown find solutions to global problems and improve lives. We’ve increased access to education. Driven knowledge creation and research breakthroughs. Built a collaborative campus community. Your gift at any level makes it possible for the University to sustain academic excellence and build on its distinction. You and Brown: together. Give now. Support all that Brown makes possible. MAKE A GIFT Where to Give Brown Annual Fund As one of the University's most powerful giving vehicles, the Brown Annual Fund provides the immediate-use support that fuels the Brown experience. Visit Page Open details for Brown Annual Fund Financial Aid When the best and brightest students decide where to enroll, we want them to choose Brown. Visit Page Open details for Financial Aid Investing in Faculty Brown is building its capacity to lead in areas of great consequence to society through world-class teaching, research and innovation. Visit Page Open details for Investing in Faculty Diversity & Inclusion Across the country, Brown’s work on diversity and inclusion is attracting attention. Visit Page Open details for Diversity &amp; Inclusion Athletics Through gifts to the Brown University Sports Foundation, we're supporting our scholar-athletes on and off the field. Visit Page Open details for Athletics The Warren Alpert Medical School Brown’s medical faculty, staff, and students are invested in discovery, service to society, and the health of individuals and communities. Visit Page Open details for The Warren Alpert Medical School School of Engineering Brown’s engineers are both deeply trained problem solvers and broadly trained problem seekers who grapple with complex issues that affect our daily lives. Visit Page Open details for School of Engineering School of Public Health Going beyond preventing disease to reshaping health care and safeguarding vulnerable populations, the school is improving human health on a large scale. Visit Page Open details for School of Public Health More Areas of Support Across disciplines, departments, schools, and centers, your support has the power to propel education and research in every corner of College Hill. Visit Page Open details for More Areas of Support BrownTogether campaign Our ambitious goals are achievable when we unite to create our shared future: BrownTogether. Learn more How to Give You can make your gift to Brown in a variety of ways—from online to stocks to bequests. Find the method that best suits you. GIVE ONLINE → CHECKS, STOCKS, AND MORE → PLANNED GIVING → MATCHING GIFTS → View all ways to give Stories of Impact https://www.youtube.com/embed/6FCPaQNMFVU The Rise of Digital Health Emergency physician Dr. Megan Ranney MPH’10 RES’08 is using technology to help change patients' health care trajectory. More giving stories Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center May 25, 2022 Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 Read Article Open details for Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Alumni & Friends 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day April 14, 2022 Want to help make this Brunonians Pay It Forward Day our biggest yet? Here’s how you can get involved and spread the word about this giving day. Read Article Open details for 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day Alumni & Friends Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 April 3, 2022 This year’s giving day saw the Brown community help raise more than $2.6 million for the Brown Annual Fund. Read Article Open details for Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Giving Open details for Giving Bookmark this Page