Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Gift Planning Bequest/Estate Gifts For many donors, the most realistic way to make a significant gift to Harvard is through their estates. Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Sample Bequest Language Giving Through Retirement Legacy Pledge For Professional Advisors You may provide for Harvard College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, or the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences in many ways, including: a codicil to your will an amendment to your revocable trust a retirement plan beneficiary designation naming Harvard the beneficiary of your life insurance plan a donor-advised fund or private foundation succession plan Estate plans should be prepared by and with the advice of an attorney to ensure that your intentions are carried out. The Office of Gift Planning staff is available for additional information on the various methods of designating a bequest to Harvard. Sample Bequest Language A general bequest, unrestricted as to purpose: “I give (____ dollars) or (____ percent of my estate) to Harvard University, a Massachusetts educational, charitable corporation, for the benefit of [Harvard College] [the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences] [the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences] for its general purposes.” An endowment bequest for a specific purpose: “I give (____ dollars) or (____ percent of my estate) to Harvard University, a Massachusetts educational, charitable corporation, for the benefit of [Harvard College] [the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences] [the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences], the income to be used for (state the purpose). If, in the future, in the opinion of Harvard University, all or part of the income of this fund cannot be usefully applied to the above purpose (or in the above manner), it may be used for any purpose within the corporate powers of the University that will most nearly accomplish my wishes and purposes.” Giving Through Retirement Plans Designating Harvard as a beneficiary of your retirement plan is an especially tax-wise way to support the College or other programs of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Harvard receives all or a part of the plan assets in full, undiminished by estate and gift taxes. Retirement accounts can be the most highly taxed assets many people hold, as they may be subject to both income tax when distributed as well as estate taxes. In a large estate, these taxes can leave less than 30 cents on the dollar of these plans for your children or other heirs. By naming the FAS as the beneficiary of your retirement plan, the full amount of your legacy gift is available for a designation that you specify such as financial aid, faculty research or teaching, or unrestricted funds that provide the dean with flexible support. You can designate Harvard as a beneficiary of part or all the remainder of your IRA or retirement plan. How it Works Request a beneficiary designation form from your plan’s administrator. Many plans permit you to make the change directly online. Complete the (printed or online) form using any of the following suggested language: Harvard University, for the benefit of Harvard College* Harvard University FBO Harvard College* Harvard Univ. FBO its College* *or the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) or the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (Harvard Paulson School) Any individual who is 70½ or older can transfer tax-free gifts (maximum $100,000 each year) directly from their IRA to Harvard using the Qualified Charitable Distribution. Legacy Pledge A legacy pledge allows you to receive reunion gift credit for a pledge that combines an outright gift with a gift through your will. You can establish a legacy pledge beginning at your 50th reunion. You will have the opportunity to make a significant gift to Harvard, while retaining use of assets to meet life needs. How it Works The Office of Gift Planning prepares an enforceable pledge agreement, in which you (and your spouse) agree to pay at least 20 percent of the total commitment within a specific number of years (as many as five). You fulfill the remaining pledge balance during your (and your spouse's) lifetime or through a provision in your estate plan. A legacy pledge can be combined with an IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution as a tax-wise gift strategy for your reunion. For Professional Advisors The Office of Gift Planning welcomes the opportunity to work with you and your clients on tax-efficient ways to support Harvard College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS), and the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (Harvard Paulson School) or other entities within the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Please contact us directly for information or confidential assistance. Legal Name All charitable gifts should be directed to “Harvard University.”* It is important to include a further designation to Harvard College, GSAS, or the Harvard Paulson School to ensure that your client’s objectives are properly carried out within Harvard. Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) Harvard’s federal taxpayer identification number is 04-2103580. For a copy of Harvard University’s 501(c)(3) IRS determination letter, please contact: Harvard University Alumni and Development Services 124 Mount Auburn Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1750 gifts@harvard.edu For assistance in drafting bequest provisions, please contact: Harvard University FAS Office of Gift Planning 124 Mount Auburn Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-496-3205 ogp@harvard.edu For assistance with realized gifts from trusts and estates to Harvard, please contact: Harvard University Alumni and Development Services 124 Mount Auburn Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Attn: Elizabeth Kinsman, Estates and Special Investments 617-720-6582 donorestates@harvard.edu *The corporate name of Harvard University is “President and Fellows of Harvard College.” Harvard University, a registered trademark for the corporation, may be used interchangeably with “President and Fellows of Harvard College.” Contact Planned Giving Email: ogp@harvard.edu Phone: 617-496-3205 or 1-800-VERITAS (ask for the Office of Gift Planning) Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College