Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Europe Summer Sea Travel June 27 - July 06, 2022 Alluring Aegean: Athens to Istanbul aboard Sea Cloud II View Brochure Denis Feeney, Giger Professor of Latin at Princeton University Professor Feeney was educated at Auckland University and Oxford, where he obtained a doctorate in 1982. After teaching positions both in Britain and the United States, he joined the Princeton faculty in 2000. He teaches and publishes on Latin literature and on Roman culture more broadly, with a special focus on Roman religion and time. He will become emeritus during this Princeton Journey, on June 30, 2022. In addition to articles on Latin literature (particularly on his favorite Latin poets, Catullus, Virgil, Horace, and Ovid), Professor Feeney has written four books. The Gods in Epic (Oxford, 1991) investigated the problem of how gods were represented in (especially Latin) epic. Literature and Religion at Rome (Cambridge, 1998) looked more broadly at the problem of the interaction between the literary and religious systems of Rome, framing the issues in terms of a dialogue between the way scholars tend to read Greek culture and Roman culture more generally. Caesar’s Calendar (California, 2007) examined Roman constructions of time, in terms of synchronism, historical vs. mythical time, and calendrical time. Professor Feeney’s most recent book, Beyond Greek: The Beginnings of Latin Literature (Harvard, 2016), is about why Rome developed a literature in the Latin language when it shouldn’t really have done so. About the Journey Setting sail from Athens, the cradle of Western Civilization, embark on a voyage aboard Sea Cloud II through the turquoise waters of the Aegean to legendary sites of antiquity in Greece and Turkey. Step ashore to discover unspoiled islands, timeless villages, ancient sites, early Christian landmarks, Byzantine monasteries, and fascinating museums displaying excavated treasures. Behold archaeological wonders including the Bronze Age site at Thira in beautiful Santorini. Sail to the Cycladic island of Amorgos, and see an impressive Byzantine monastery perched on a seaside cliff. Explore sacred Patmos, one of the famous Dodecanese islands, where St. John the Evangelist lived in exile. Head to Turkey for a visit to Ephesus, whose ancient city center showcases a wealth of Hellenistic, Roman Imperial, and early Christian monuments. On the island of Chios, tour the gorgeous 11th-century Monastery of Nea Moni, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Before concluding in Istanbul, venture to fabled Troy, immortalized by Homer. Please note: Princeton travelers will be joined by those from Yale, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and The National Trust For Historic Preservation. Reservations To register, please contact our partner tour operator, Arrangements Abroad, at 800-221-1944 or trips@arrangementsabroad.com. Questions? Contact Princeton Journeys at journeys@princeton.edu. Contact Us journeys@princeton.edu Follow Us on Facebook @princetonjourneys Subscribe to the Mailing List See All Upcoming Journeys Trip Details Dates June 27 - July 06, 2022 Activity Level Moderate Cost from $8,999 per person, double occupancy Deposit $1,000 per person Contact journeys@princeton.edu 609-258-8686 Contact Us journeys@princeton.edu Follow Us on Facebook @princetonjourneys Subscribe to the Mailing List See All Upcoming Journeys Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram