Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Community Stories Stay up to date with what's happening at Harvard and within the Harvard alumni community. Read Stories from the Harvard Gazette Menu Main menu Community Overview My Profile My Contacts Email Forwarding Email Preferences Message Board My Messages Post A Message Alumni Class Notes My Notes Submit a Class Note Clubs & SIGs Clubs Directory SIGs Directory Volunteer Public Service Stories Careers & Networking HAA Career Resources Career Resources by School HAA Career Webinars Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA HAA Board HAA Poet Laureate Staff Directory Awards and Recognition Help June 1, 2022 Alumni Profiles Campus & Community Community by Design The incoming president of the Harvard Alumni Association, Allyson Mendenhall AB '90, MLA '99 is committed to creating inclusive alumni experiences. May 18, 2022 Sustainability & Environment Researchers Awarded $1.3M for Climate Work The eighth round of Climate Change Solutions Fund grants will fund 10 projects led by Harvard faculty and students. May 12, 2022 Campus & Community Lapp to Step Down as Executive VP Katie Lapp, Harvard's chief administrative officer since 2009, will be succeeded by Meredith Weenick AB '90, MBA '02. April 27, 2022 Faculty & Research Lewis, Ong Named Carnegie Fellows Two Harvard faculty members received a stipend to pursue research and writing in the social sciences and humanities. April 7, 2022 Campus & Community Ketanji Brown Jackson AB '92, JD '96 Confirmed as U.S. Supreme Court Justice Harvard alumna will become the first Black woman to serve on the nation’s highest court. March 31, 2022 Campus & Community Class of 1997 Elects Hobbs as Chief Marshal of Alumni Author, scholar, and educator Allyson Hobbs AB '97 will lead the alumni parade as part of Harvard Alumni Day. March 9, 2022 Campus & Community Former Poet Laureate to Speak at Harvard Alumni Day Pulitzer Prize–winning poet Tracy K. Smith AB '94 will be the featured speaker at an on-campus celebration of Harvard's global alumni community on June 3. February 28, 2022 Campus & Community Ketanji Brown Jackson AB '92, JD '96 Nominated for Supreme Court Jackson, a D.C. appeals court judge and Harvard alumna, would be the first Black woman to serve on the nation’s highest court. February 25, 2022 Campus & Community Ifill to Receive Radcliffe Medal Nationally renowned civil rights attorney and scholar Sherrilyn Ifill will be honored for her work advancing equality and access to education. February 15, 2022 Campus & Community Pritzker Elected Harvard Corporation Senior Fellow Penny Pritzker AB '81 will succeed William F. Lee AB ’72, becoming the first woman to serve as senior fellow of the Harvard Corporation. February 14, 2022 Philanthropy Students Historic Gift Expands Scholarship Aid for Teachers Harvard Graduate School of Education Dean Bridget Long discusses the impact of an anonymous gift to support endowed scholarships for master's students. February 10, 2022 Alumni Profiles Transforming Opportunities Deacon Turner ’91 shares how his journey out of poverty to the Yard inspires him to do what he can for students like him to thrive February 7, 2022 Campus & Community Happy Return for Hasty Pudding The Hasty Pudding Theatricals roasted and toasted actors Jason Bateman and Jennifer Garner during Man and Woman of the Year events on campus. January 11, 2022 Science & Health Harvard Researchers Explore Protein-Based Vaccines Harvard Medical School researchers at Boston Children's Hospital are developing two new candidates for protein-based vaccines against COVID-19. December 8, 2021 Campus & Community Harvard Mourns the Passing of Jerry Rappaport Philanthropist Jerome "Jerry" Rappaport AB '47, LLB '49, MPA '63 left an indelible impact at Harvard University and beyond. November 29, 2021 Alumni Profiles Winning from the bench Following a childhood of frequenting Camden Yards, gymnasiums, and athletic fields, Eve Rosenbaum ’12 found herself on the bench at Harvard. And it made all the difference. November 15, 2021 Campus & Community The Art of Transformative Love Harvard Divinity School celebrates the leadership and service of beloved community members Connie and Preston Williams PhD '67, for whom the chapel in the newly renovated Swartz Hall has been renamed. November 15, 2021 Science & Health Students A Rosetta Stone of Biology Harvard graduate student Yekaterina "Kate" Shulgina has developed a computer program that can read the genome sequence of any organism and then determine its code. November 4, 2021 Alumni Profiles Philanthropy Campus & Community A Stake in Harvard's Future For recent graduate Tony Wang AB ’11, MBA ’17, long-term giving to Harvard through a charitable lead trust is an investment in building community and maximizing financial impact. November 1, 2021 Philanthropy Striking the Right Chord Through a gift of real estate, Harriet Woodworth Koch AB ’57 and Albin C. “Al” Koch JD ’59 are honoring the legacy of a beloved Harvard professor by helping student musicians pursue their passions. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page next › Last page last » Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College