Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Giving Planned Giving Harvard Planned Gift Administration Menu Main menu Giving Overview Give Online Planned Giving Gifts That Pay You Income Lead Trusts Assets You Can Give Events Harvard Planned Gift Administration Resources Meet the Staff Contact Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Types of Bequests How to Make a Bequest Benefits of a Bequest Future Use Attorney & Advisor Info Gift Policy Guide Tax Information FAQ Giving Contacts Online Account Access As part of Harvard’s transition to TIAA Kaspick as the trust administrator for the University’s planned giving program, we are pleased to offer online access to your tax reporting and other important documents through a secure website, Kaspick Connect. The website allows you to view information about each of your Harvard trusts, annuities, and pooled income funds. To activate your account access or for more information, contact donortrustadministration@harvard.edu or 877-539-6593. After a rigorous review process, Harvard University and Harvard Management Company (HMC) have selected TIAA Kaspick—a longtime leader in planned gift management—as the new trust administrator for Harvard’s planned giving program. As of October 2021, Kaspick has taken over the charitable trust administration previously provided by HMC’s Trusts and Gifts team, as well as the investment of Harvard’s pooled income funds, charitable lead trusts (those not invested in the endowment), and charitable remainder trusts invested in the tax efficient options. The Kaspick investment strategies for these gifts are designed to have similar risk/return profiles and tax sensitivity as the current Harvard strategies. Harvard will remain trustee of all trusts and oversee the investment of all planned gift assets. Trusts invested in the Harvard endowment will remain invested in the endowment, and the Harvard endowment strategy will continue to be an investment option for remainder trusts going forward. Donors will continue to receive the same level of personalized service that they’ve come to expect from Harvard, at no cost to them. In fact, several current HMC staff will continue to work with our donors and beneficiaries, as part of the University alongside planned giving colleagues. As shown in the chart below, Harvard will continue its longstanding tradition of assessing no management fees against our trusts and annuities, and there will be no changes in the timing of payments and tax statements. Existing payment preferences have been transferred to Kaspick. We have full confidence that partnering with Kaspick will better position Harvard to serve our planned giving donors now and into the future, as our program continues to grow due to the thoughtful generosity of our donors. Should you have any questions, please contact the University Planned Giving office at pgo@harvard.edu or 800-446-1277. We are grateful to our donors for their important support of Harvard students and faculty, which every day makes possible new advances with wide-ranging benefits for people around the world. Harvard Planned Gift Management Gift Type Investment Strategy Management Fees Payment Timing Tax Statement Timing Charitable Gift Annuity Harvard Endowment None No change** No change Charitable Remainder Trust: Endowment Harvard Endowment None No change** No change Charitable Remainder Trust: Tax Efficient Kaspick Tax-Efficient* None No change** No change Pooled Income Funds Kaspick* None No change** No change Lead Trust: Endowment Harvard Endowment None No change** No change Lead Trust: Non-Endowment Kaspick* None No change** No change *The Kaspick investment strategies are designed to have similar risk/return profiles and tax sensitivity as the current Harvard strategies. Harvard will oversee all investments of trusts made by Kaspick. **As per your agreement Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College