Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Welcome to the Harvard Alumni Association The Harvard Alumni Association maintains and enhances a highly engaged, vibrant community of alumni and friends worldwide. It helps connect alumni to the University and each other through a wealth of community activities, continuing education programs, online services, and events around the world. About the HAA Alumni Benefits Menu Main menu Community Overview My Profile My Contacts Email Forwarding Email Preferences Message Board My Messages Post A Message Alumni Class Notes My Notes Submit a Class Note Clubs & SIGs Clubs Directory SIGs Directory Volunteer Public Service Stories Careers & Networking HAA Career Resources Career Resources by School HAA Career Webinars Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA HAA Board HAA Poet Laureate Staff Directory Awards and Recognition Help The Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) is the official association for you and the more than 400,000 Harvard alumni around the world. You have a membership just by attending Harvard College or one of Harvard's Graduate and Professional Schools. Here at the HAA, we connect you and your fellow graduates with a wealth of networking opportunities, professional development resources, programs, volunteer opportunities, faculty-led trips, and more. So, whether you are looking to build or expand your Harvard community, reconnect with classmates, mentor students, engage in lifelong learning, or stay informed on Harvard news—the HAA is here to keep you connected to it all. You may no longer be a student, but Harvard and the HAA will always be here for you. Remember, Harvard’s alumni community is your community. Get Involved Learn more about how to get involved with Harvard as an alumnus/a and see how the HAA can serve you. Alumni Directory The HAA Alumni Directory is your comprehensive resource for staying in touch with classmates. Benefits and Resources Explore the benefits and services made available to Harvard alumni from across the University. Alumni Communities Harvard Clubs and Shared Interest Groups offer a wide range of opportunities for Harvard alumni to engage with the Harvard community nearby and across the globe. Volunteer Opportunities HAA volunteers help shape and sustain our institution—we welcome all interested alumni to join our volunteer community. Programs and Events Engage with the worldwide community of Harvard alumni wherever you are on campus, online, and in your region through HAA programs and events. Contact Us Need to get in touch with the Harvard Alumni Association? Call or Email You can reach us by phone at 800-823-2478 or 617-496-0559 (M–F, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. [ET]) or by email at haa_alumnihelp@harvard.edu. Email the HAA Alumni Help Desk You can reach the HAA Online Help Desk by filling out the HAA Help Desk contact form. Go to Help Desk Form Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College