Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Parent Engagement Programs Welcome to the Harvard community and the Harvard College family. In close partnership with our network of dedicated parent ambassadors, the Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs office convenes and fosters an engaged, supportive community of Harvard parents around the world. Recognition and Events Parents Committee Parent Partners Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Through our events and volunteer committee, parents of undergraduates have the opportunity to forge meaningful connections with Harvard’s diverse community of families as well as the College. Parents are also encouraged to make a direct impact on the student experience by making thoughtful contributions to the Harvard College Fund. Last year, over 2,000 families joined together to support the transformative power of a liberal arts and sciences education. Recognition and Events for Harvard College Parents As a parent, you have always played an integral role in your child’s education. And although your student may only spend four years at the College, you and your family will be linked to Harvard throughout your lives. Parents have many opportunities to meet each other and engage with the Harvard community. We hope your family considers supporting the Harvard College Fund by making a gift. Families that make an annual contribution at the Associates-level ($1,000 or more) will be recognized in the Harvard College Fund’s Annual Report of Associates Giving and receive an invitation to a special parent program in the spring. For more information, please email Kayla Ferria. Harvard College Fund Parents Committee Serving as a volunteer for the Harvard College Fund Parents Committee is a wonderful way to participate in your child’s education at Harvard and to meet and network with other Harvard parents. Led by Harvard College Fund Parent Co-Chairs Peter ’90 and Susannah Kagan P’24 (New York, New York), Guy and Hila Goldstein P’25, '19 (Palo Alto, California), and Kevin MBA ’88 and Patti O’Meara P’22, ’20, ’18 (Dallas, Texas), the Harvard College Fund Parents Committee is an enthusiastic cohort of 100 volunteer families committed to building a more supportive parent community. The success of our annual parent fundraising and engagement efforts depends largely on peer-to-peer outreach. As donors and representatives of the Harvard College Fund, volunteers play an essential role in encouraging parents to give and get involved. Sharing personal motivations for supporting the College will inspire others to follow these examples of leadership. We count on all members of the Harvard College Fund Parents Committee to: Help Harvard parents build relationships with each other and the College Attend, host, or cohost parent events (when feasible) Identify and recruit new members for the Parents Committee Participate in Committee meetings/calls Attend at least one Harvard College Fund all-volunteer event annually Specific responsibilities for Committee leadership roles include the following: CO-CHAIRS (by invitation only) Support the Harvard College Fund with an annual gift of $100,000+ designated as flexible, immediate-use funds Serve on the Harvard College Fund Executive Committee Lead the Harvard College Fund Parents Committee Provide support and mentorship to a small cohort of volunteers through the Parents Committee’s Peer Advisory Network Serve as ex officio leaders of Harvard College Parent Partners Cultivate, solicit, and steward a select group of high-level prospects In partnership with staff, guide the direction of parent fundraising and engagement strategy Serve as signatory of occasional solicitation and stewardship communications Preside at meetings and events throughout the year Two-year term, renewable VICE CHAIRS (by invitation only) Support the Harvard College Fund with an annual gift of $1,000+ Provide support and mentorship to a small cohort of volunteers through the Parents Committee’s Peer Advisory Network Help lead gift committee meetings and calls Cultivate, solicit, and steward a select group of prospects Recognized as ad hoc members of the Harvard College Parent Partners Serve as signatory of occasional solicitation and stewardship communications Two-year term, renewable LEADERSHIP GIFTS COMMITTEE Support the Harvard College Fund at the Leadership Associates level ($10,000+) annually Cultivate, solicit and thank families for Leadership-level gifts One-year term, renewable ASSOCIATES COMMITTEE Support the Harvard College Fund at the Associates level ($1,000+) annually Solicit and thank families for Associates-level gifts One-year term, renewable If you are interested in volunteering with the Harvard College Fund Parents Committee, please email Kayla Ferria. Harvard College Fund Parent Partners Parent Partners get a sneak peek of the renovated Lowell House with a private hardhat tour. For almost four centuries, the mission of Harvard College has been to educate the citizens and citizen leaders of our society through a transformative liberal arts and sciences education. Your family is now a part of that important and long-standing tradition. The moment your child was accepted to Harvard, they embarked upon an unparalleled educational journey. We invite you to expand your incredible support of that journey and advance the College’s mission by becoming a Harvard College Parent Partner. With annual, immediate-use contributions to the Harvard College Fund beginning at $25,000, Harvard College Parent Partners are recognized as philanthropic leaders within the parent community. While most Parent Partners choose to support the College’s highest priorities by making unrestricted gifts, some families do choose to allocate their gifts to one of the College’s other immediate-use priorities: The student experience Undergraduate financial aid Faculty support Libraries These essential yearly commitments make a profound impact on the intellectually, socially, and personally transformative opportunities that Harvard offers your child and its entire student body. As a Parent Partner, you will be able to deepen your connection with the College through: Exclusive Parent Partner events, conference calls, and webinars with Harvard College leadership and faculty Special updates from campus each semester Recognition through the Harvard College Fund Associates Program Personal support from the Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs staff Ways to Give You can make a gift online at alumni.harvard.edu/parentgift. For a gift of stock, please contact the security gifts team in Alumni & Development Services. Additional Resources Resources for Harvard College Parents First-Year Experience Office Commencement Contact the Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Office Kayla Ferria, Associate Director: 857-320-0448 Isaiah Willis, Development Assistant: 617-495-0613 Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College