Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Cornell Alumni Travel Lifelong learning Lifelong learning Return to the classroom: Cornell's faculty, administrators, alumni, staff, students and friends share their breakthroughs and insights, online or in a city near you. Pamela Tolbert, professor of organizational behavior, teaching a class. Photo: Jason Koski/Cornell Marketing Group Lifelong learning Leadership, Lunch, and Learn The classroom is coming to you! Access to great faculty lectures and lifelong learning opportunities doesn’t have to end when you graduate from Cornell. There are many ways to continue your academic journey. Connect and network with other Cornellians in person and online, while immersing yourself in learning all over again—without having to travel to Ithaca and without the homework! Watch livestreams on-demand Visit live.alumni.cornell.edu Log in with your Cornell NetID and password to access alumni programs. Learn and discover All About Birds - Online guide to birds and bird watching Cornell's Adult University Cornell Online - Programs, courses and more CornellX - Cornell University MOOCs eCornell: Cornell online education programs Faculty lectures on CornellCAST TED Talks Students want some online learning features in ‘new normal’ May 23, 2022 The 2030 Project to marshal faculty to solve climate crisis May 12, 2022 Story circles foster intercultural conversations, belonging April 26, 2022 Big Red Reads Join the Cornell book club, Big Red Reads! Sign up Plan a trip with Cornell Alumni Travel Traveling well with Cornell EXPLORE TRIPS Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022