Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Alumni Association Toggle navigation Site Menu Membership Join Today Renew Your Membership Membership Overview Why Become a Member? Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks Alumni Directory My oneFSU Dashboard Students Student Alumni Association Join SAA SAA Membership Perks My oneFSU Dashboard Honors Alumni Ambassadors Award Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Legacy Scholarship Grads Made Good The Inspire Award Community Alumni Networks Alumni Career Services Events Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Alumni Travel Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Webinar Resources Virtual Alumni Resources Support Join, Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Give to the Legacy Scholarship Give to the FSU Alumni Association Give to the FSU Alumni Association Endowment Give to FSU Academic Programs Purchase a Westcott Plaza Brick Support the Alumni Ambassadors Fund About About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Annual Highlights Alumni Center & Events Employment Frequently Asked Questions Financial Information Map and Directions Sponsorship Opportunities FSU Alumni Center SAA Benefits Menu Home About Us Membership Events Perks of Membership Learn about the perks of an SAA membership. Discounts & Perks FSU Bookstore – 10% off of the purchase of books and merchandise at the FSU Bookstore! This bookstore discount is an exclusive benefit of SAA membership and can be used for merchandise and textbooks, in person and online. To redeem your 10% discount on membership purchases, use code FSUAA21. For textbook purchases, use the “Special Instructions” box at checkout. Enter code “FSUAA21” and your Member ID number. Your 10% discount will be applied after the bookstore processes your order! You will not see the discount reflected before submitting your order, but you will see it on your statement. Balfour FSU Class Ring – Receive $25 off when purchasing an FSU Class Ring! Each year, FSU seniors attend our President’s Ring Ceremony Celebration and complete the FSU tradition of dipping their Class Ring in the Westcott Fountain at 6:51 PM. SAA members have the exclusive opportunity to participate in this tradition at a $25 discount by using code FSA SAA at checkout! Mariott Hotels – Get access to discounted rates at Tallahassee Mariott hotels! When friends and family come to visit, make sure they get the best rate in town by visiting https://gonol.es/marriott. Crenshaw Lanes – Show your membership card at Crenshaw Lanes for free shoe rental! This membership benefit is available during open bowling and cosmic bowling sessions. Professional Development Events – Each semester, SAA partners with the FSU Career Center to hold a variety of professional development events. Past events have included Resume & Cover Letter Workshops, Formal Etiquette Dinners, LinkedIn Workshops, and more! Networking – Members of SAA have the unique and exclusive opportunity to network with our most involved and established FSU alumni. SAA students are frequently welcomed and encouraged to attend FSU Alumni Association events. SAA also typically hosts 1-2 alumni speakers per semester, who are always interested in engaging with students. Additionally, SAA students are involved in leadership across campus, and have the opportunity to network with each other! Leadership Opportunities – Leading SAA is an Executive Board of 13 members and a group of Ambassadors, SAA’s most dedicated volunteers. Executive Board members and Ambassadors build professional and leadership skills, as well as honing skills that contribute to their career fields and prepare them to be well-rounded professionals. Executive Board members and Ambassadors participate in leadership development events and activities throughout their term. Mentorship The FSU Alumni Association offers an exclusive mentoring program to SAA members! Students involved in SAA have the opportunity to be matched with a mentor on our National Board of Directors or Young Alumni Council. Using the ProfessioNole Mentors platform, members are able to keep track of their goals, conversations, and progress with their mentors. When asked for feedback on the mentoring program, a previous participant shared, “[Through the Mentoring Program,] I was able to meet someone who I truly looked up to and had my best interest at heart”. FSU Spirit & Traditions Homecoming – Homecoming is one of FSU’s most exciting annual traditions, and SAA plays a big part in making it a success! SAA is responsible for planning the annual FSU Homecoming Parade, as well as facilitating the Homecoming Court process, leading to the selection of our Homecoming Chief and Princess each year. Members of SAA have the opportunity to be directly involved with the planning of these traditions, working behind the scenes alongside the FSU Homecoming Council. Balfour FSU Class Ring – Thanks to our partnership with Balfour, SAA students receive a $25 discount when purchasing an FSU Class Ring! As SAA is also involved in the marketing of Class Rings and planning of the President’s Ring Ceremony, SAA members have the opportunity to participate in the Class Ring tradition in many ways. President’s Ice Cream Social Beat Tees – Each semester, SAA members have the opportunity to receive Beat Tees to wear to home football games! SAA is able to provide Beat Tees based on sponsorships. If you or someone you know is interested in sponsoring a Beat Tee, please email wpowers@fsu.edu. OFFICIAL PARTNERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Their generous support allows the FSU Alumni Association to provide programs, services and events to you. MEMBERS Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Member Perks Reward Zone Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks STUDENTS Student Alumni Association Join SAA Benefits of SAA Membership Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks HONORS Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award COMMUNITY Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Events Football HQ Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Travel Programs ABOUT US About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Sponsorship Opportunities ALUMNI CENTER Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions FSU Alumni Association 1030 W. Tennessee St. Tallahassee, FL 32304 Email Us (850) 644-2761 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright Close