Skip to main content ncstate-alumni-wolf-web Alumni Association Menu Close About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Membership facebook twitter linked in email About About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine NC State Magazine Merchandise Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Membership Membership in the Alumni Association connects you to the university you call home through events, NC State magazine and more. Stand With Your Pack Your years at NC State were when friendships, careers and dreams were born. Whether you just turned your tassel or last walked the bricks decades ago, whether you’re in Raleigh or across the globe, we keep you connected to this special place. The Alumni Association at NC State provides many mechanisms to connect and engage with fellow alumni and the broader university. Sam Warren ’12 President, NC State Black Alumni Society When you join the Alumni Association, you unite with people who share your experiences — and Pack pride — through virtual events, regional networks, affinity groups and our alumni directory. And we help you stay in touch with the university’s news, awards and honors, people and events with our award-winning NC State magazine. It’s like you never left. Join for a year — or for a lifetime. In addition to alumni memberships, we offer options for current students and friends who support the Pack. Explore our memberships to find the one that’s right for you, or contact us to learn more. Find Your Membership Alumni and Friends We offer several flexible options for graduates, supporters and friends, including membership types for recent graduates and 60+ alumni. Explore alumni memberships Current Students Members of the Student Alumni Association serve NC State by participating in campus traditions and can also have the chance to network with alumni. Explore current student memberships Gift Surprise your favorite Wolfpacker with the gift of Alumni Association membership, including a year of NC State magazine and invitations to virtual events. Explore gift memberships NC State Magazine NC State magazine is published quarterly and mailed to members. In this issue: The Greatest Show on Earth may be gone, but thanks to Howard Tibbals ’59, it lives in perpetuity — in three-quarter-inch scale. Read more Making the Most of Membership Already a Member? Check out the our app to search for member discounts and more. Learn more A variety of discounts and other perks from our partners offset your Alumni Association membership fee. Members also are invited to exclusive virtual events and have participated in unique experiences like volunteer opportunities with local service organizations, the annual Holiday Open House with Mr. and Mrs. Wuf, and receptions with the chancellor. And alumni members can access valuable career services and networking tools that help you succeed professionally. Take your membership on the go by downloading the free NC State Alumni Association app. The app is the only membership card you need to access member benefits and discounts. You can also use it to read up on the latest campus news or find discounts near you. Download on the App Store Get it on Google Play Setting You Up for Professional Success We’re committed to supporting our alumni after they graduate, so alumni membership includes valuable career services like professional coaching, networking opportunities and access to the university’s ePACK job database. Visit our virtual career center to explore all the ways we can help you thrive professionally. Learn more Upcoming Events All Events Jun 10 Friday7:05 PM New York Alumni Network: Yankees Baseball With the Pack Jun 18 Saturday2:00 PM Denver Alumni Network: Axe Throwing With the Pack Jun 19 Sunday1:20 PM Chicago Alumni Network: Cubs Baseball With the Pack Alumni Association Home Campus Box 7503 NC State University Raleigh NC 27695-7503 919.515.3375 Campus Map About Membership Events Engagement News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.