Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Veterans Financial Aid Initiative Student veterans embody the devotion to service that is core to Brown’s distinctive culture. Expanded financial aid will help them realize their personal and professional goals. Breadcrumb Home Giving Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Financial Aid Sub Navigation In This Section The Brown Promise Veterans Financial Aid Initiative Supporting Brown’s Commitment to Veterans Veterans who apply to Brown demonstrate great curiosity about the world, consistent dedication to skill development, and a desire to serve others. Many want to pursue leadership in the next phase of their careers, and the University wants to support them. Because student veterans often weren't afforded the opportunity to take a direct route from high school to college, Brown’s veteran initiatives take into account the unique circumstances and challenges these students face. In 2019, Brown announced plans to double the number of U.S. military veterans enrolled as Brown undergraduates by 2024. To reach this goal and ensure these talented students view Brown as an option for higher education, the University is: Extending need-blind admission to include prospective students who have served in the U.S. Armed Forces. (These students are often admitted under Brown’s Resumed Undergraduate Education program or as transfers from another institution, both of which take a need-aware approach to admission.) Eliminating the estimated family contribution for student-veterans and replacing it with scholarship Strengthening recruiting through partnership with Service to School and other programs Making standardized test scores optional for veterans in the admission process Maintaining a strong alumni veteran-to-student veteran mentoring program and establishing a peer-to-peer veteran mentoring program in spring of 2021 Increasing the amount of the Yellow Ribbon Match with the Veterans Administration, which combined with their general VA educational benefit, covers the full cost of tuition and fees for student-veterans. Raising $25 million in financial support specifically for veterans I dreamed about going to an Ivy League school when I was younger, but never thought it would be possible. But, with the support of my fellow veterans, the Office of Military-Affiliated Students, and the significant contributions of donors to financial aid, my dream has been made possible. Pursuing a degree in cognitive neuroscience has been challenging, but rewarding. I am grateful for my experience thus far and am eager to conquer the next mountain in my journey after graduating. Katie Yetter ’22 Student-veteran, U.S. Marine Corps Unlike traditional first-year students, veterans applying to Brown are at different stages in their lives. Many come from low-income backgrounds, have families to support, or are dealing with physical and mental health concerns. As a result, a robust financial aid package is often the single most important factor for military veterans considering Brown. The Veterans Financial Aid Initiative supplements the resources offered through the Post-9/11 GI Bill Yellow Ribbon Program and enables Brown to meet 100% of the total cost of attendance for qualified veterans. The initiative has raised the number of undergraduate student-veterans to 26 in the 2020-21 academic year and 37 in 2021-22. Gifts to this initiative through the BrownTogether campaign will ensure that Brown does not miss out on the breadth and depth of perspectives that veterans bring to the student body. This goal aligns with the aims of the University’s Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan, and its campus-wide commitment to supporting meaningful inclusion throughout the Brown community. Support veterans at Brown. Remove barriers to education for those who have served our country with honor. MAKE A GIFT For information about the Veterans Financial Aid Initiative, contact: Shelley Roth P’17, P’20 Director of Development for Academic Initiatives +1 (401) 863-6162 shelley_roth@brown.edu Related Links Office of Military-Affiliated Students Supporting Financial Aid Related Stories Recent News News from Brown New Kessler Scholars Program at Brown will expand support for first-gen, low-income students April 12, 2022 Building on the success of the University’s existing FLiSP program, a new five-year, $1 million grant will create the Kessler Scholars Program, a cohort-based model that bolsters support for first-generation, low-income students. Read Article Open details for New Kessler Scholars Program at Brown will expand support for first-gen, low-income students Alumni & Friends One campus, a world of possibilities March 25, 2022 With further investments in financial aid, BrownTogether aims to make need-blind admission for international students a reality. Read Article Open details for One campus, a world of possibilities Alumni & Friends Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign November 2, 2021 Having reached its target more than a year ahead of schedule, the University will continue raising funds for student scholarships and faculty research, while establishing new goals in the months to come. Read Article Open details for Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Veterans Financial Aid Initiative Open details for Veterans Financial Aid Initiative Bookmark this Page