Skip to main content Mobile Main Navigation Connect Volunteer Attend Learn Give Mobile Utility Navigation Give Now Contact Us Harvard Medicine magazine Harvard Medical School Menu Utility Navigation Give Now Contact Us Harvard Medicine magazine Harvard Medical School Search Main navigation Connect Master's Alumni Harvard Alumni Association Harvard Medicine magazine Volunteer Alumni Council Service Award Attend Reunion Alumni Day Recent Graduate Gathering COVID-19 Event Policies Learn Continuing Medical Education Countway Library Privileges Diversity and Inclusion Online Journals and Educational Resources Graduate and External Education Harvard Online Courses Symposia Give Make Your Gift Now Reunion Giving Planned Giving Leadership Giving Reunion 2022 Advance registration is closed. On-site registration will be available. Learn more Welcome Alumni The Harvard Medical Alumni Association keeps nearly 11,000 alumni connected. What can we do for you? Upcoming Events Jun 03 Alumni Day 2022 Friday, June 3, 2022 All Day All alumni are invited to enjoy the Annual Meeting of the HMAA, Alumni Day Symposium, and the Dean’s State of the School address, among other activities. Jun 03 Reunion 2022 Friday, June 3, 2022 - Saturday, June 4, 2022 All Day Reignite the curiosity you enjoyed as a student. Start planning to reconnect with your classmates during your Reunion in 2022. Jun 04 Recent Graduate Gathering Saturday, June 4, 2022 6:00 PM - 9:00 PM Meet up with your classmates and mingle with alumni from the classes of 2007–2021. View All Upcoming Events News and Announcements Harvard Medicine magazine Read the Spring 2022 issue on the viral world. Scientists unravel the astonishing roles viruses have in our lives and in life on Earth. Mentorship and Recruitment MD Alumni Volunteer Opportunities Help recruit prospective students and mentor current students and recent graduates, with a particular focus on those underrepresented in medicine. MD Advisor Program Your involvement strengthens our community. Alumni are invited to sign up to advise MD students on their careers. Distinguished Service Award Nominate a deserving MD alumnus/a for the 2023 award. Learn more about this award for HMS Alumni who have made remarkable contributions to the School. HMS COVID-19 Response Community experts provide insights into the COVID-19 pandemic. Learn more about how HMS is responding to this global health crisis. Rounds Share your memories and insights for Harvard Medicine magazine. What book has had a profound influence on you, professionally or otherwise? Why and how? How would you most like others to remember you as a physician? Share your response now Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 401 Park Drive Suite 505 Boston, MA 02215 (617) 384-8500 Our mission is to promote and support activities that connect alumni to each other, the School, and current students. Footer Contact Us Alumni Applications Usage Guidelines Community Values Reunion Report Data Use Privacy Policy Accessibility HAA FAQ Give Now © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College