Skip to main content ncstate-alumni-wolf-web Alumni Association Menu Close About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates About facebook twitter linked in email About About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine NC State Magazine Merchandise Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates About We fuel Pack pride by creating powerful experiences that connect our alumni, friends, students and partners to NC State — and one another — for life. Connecting the Past to the Future Contact Us If you have questions about Alumni Association membership, benefits, events or anything else, we want to help you. Get in touch Whether you’re an alumnus, a friend or a business partner, your connection to NC State is a source of pride. The Alumni Association helps you fuel that pride and make new memories. Our mission is to create experiences that connect you to your NC State passions and memories and the university’s growing prestige. When you join the Alumni Association, you access exclusive benefits and rich opportunities to engage with your alma mater and your peers through virtual events, our magazine, travel and other services. With your help, we create a strong foundation for NC State’s future by engaging current students in the university’s history and traditions through our student programs and our Caldwell Fellows scholarship program. learn more Our Home Come inside the Park Alumni Center, our 59,000-square-foot home on Centennial Campus. Find us Giving Donations beyond membership dues provide crucial support to our programs and student scholarships. Support us Merchandise Our online shop makes it easy to show your Wolfpack pride through license plates, holiday ornaments and more. Shop now More Than 20,000 Members NC State alumni are all over the world. Find ways you can connect with other members of the Pack. Explore ways to engage Upcoming Events All Events Jun 10 Friday7:05 PM New York Alumni Network: Yankees Baseball With the Pack Jun 18 Saturday2:00 PM Denver Alumni Network: Axe Throwing With the Pack Jun 19 Sunday1:20 PM Chicago Alumni Network: Cubs Baseball With the Pack Join the Alumni Association Alumni Association members stay connected to NC State and access exclusive discounts, virtual events, valuable career services, travel programs, our award-winning quarterly magazine and more. Explore membership Fans show their Pack pride prior to the game. Alumni Association Home Campus Box 7503 NC State University Raleigh NC 27695-7503 919.515.3375 Campus Map About Membership Events Engagement News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.