Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Community Careers & Networking No matter what stage of your career you're in, the Harvard Alumni Association has resources for you. From University-wide and School-specific services to information about networking events and online webinars, we’ve compiled some of the best career-related resources and services from across Harvard—and it's all at your fingertips. Alumni Directory HAA Career Webinars Playlist Menu Main menu Community Overview My Profile My Contacts Email Forwarding Email Preferences Message Board My Messages Post A Message Alumni Class Notes My Notes Submit a Class Note Clubs & SIGs Clubs Directory SIGs Directory Volunteer Public Service Stories Careers & Networking HAA Career Resources Career Resources by School HAA Career Webinars Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA HAA Board HAA Poet Laureate Staff Directory Awards and Recognition Help Harvard is here for you during every stage of your career. Through the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) and each of Harvard's Schools, alumni like you have access to opportunities to expand your network, meet professionals in your field, and grow your skill set. Whether you are looking to explore tools and services that will help you in your job search, post job opportunities for students, become a mentor, network with alumni in your area, or learn from Harvard faculty, we have the resources you need to excel. To learn more about what tools you have access to and how to get involved, simply browse the resources below that interest you. View the HAA Professional Development Toolkit Browse Resources Provided by the HAA Explore Resources through the Office of Career Services Find Career Resources from Each Graduate School View the HAA Career Webinar Playlist View the HAA Faculty Webinar Playlist Looking for career advice from fellow Harvard graduates? Check out what the Harvard alumni community is saying about the best career advice ever received in the social feed below. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College