Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Information about the 370th Commencement for the Harvard College Classes of 2020 and 2021 A message to the Harvard College Classes of 2020 and 2021 Class of 2020 and Class of 2021, I am thinking about each of you with a sense of pride. I am over the moon about celebrating Commencement with you on campus together this spring. Semper Veritas, Rakesh Khurana A schedule of events for the Harvard College Classes of 2020 and 2021 on May 28 and 29 can be found below. Additional details about the events will be added here as they become available. Registration is now live and will close after April 29! Graduates should check their email for a registration form link and are responsible for registering themselves and their guests. For reasons of safety and comfort, each graduate will be able to request up to three guest tickets for the events where guests are invited (see the schedule below for more). FAQs about the plans and programming can be found below. In order to ensure that graduates receive all updates, please make sure that your contact information, including your preferred email address, is correct in your HAA Alumni Directory profile at community.alumni.harvard.edu/person. College Commencement Weekend Schedule for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Parking and transportation information for the weekend can be found on the Commencement website. Saturday, May 28 8:00 AM–8:00 PM Headquarters Registration and Housing Check-In Cabot Science Library, Harvard Science Center. For graduates. This is where you can pick up your Commencement lanyard, and, if you have on-campus housing, your room key and card access. 10:00 AM–2:00 PM Annenberg Brunch Annenberg Hall, Memorial Hall. This event is for graduates only. Shifts will be: 10:00–11:00 a.m.: Class of 2020 from Adams, Cabot, Currier, Dudley, Dunster, Eliot, and Kirkland 11:00 a.m.–Noon: Class of 2020 from Leverett, Lowell, Mather, Pforzheimer, Quincy, and Winthrop Noon–1:00 p.m.: Class of 2021 from Adams, Cabot, Currier, Dudley, Dunster, Eliot, and Kirkland 1:00–2:00 p.m.: Class of 2021 from Leverett, Lowell, Mather, Pforzheimer, Quincy, and Winthrop At the start of their assigned shift, graduates should enter at the front right side of Annenberg Hall, where staff will scan their tickets for entry. 2:00–4:30 PM Class Photos and Time to Informally Catch-Up Class Photos will take place on Widener Library steps. Graduates should not wear their regalia for the photo. The photo is for graduates only. All will be able to order a copy of the photo; more information is forthcoming. Class of 2020 photo will take place at 2:00 p.m. Class of 2021 photo will take place at 3:00 p.m. 4:30–6:00 PM House (and Dudley Community) Receptions View the location for each House and Community. This event is for the graduates and guests. Each graduate can request up to three guest tickets for this event. 6:30–10:00 PM Class Day Dinner for the Class of 2020 Old Yard, Harvard Yard. Dinner reception from 6:30–8:00 p.m., formal program with remarks from 8:00–9:00 p.m., and casual social time from 9:00–10:00 p.m. This event is for the graduates and guests. Each graduate can request up to three guest tickets for this event. Graduates and guests can check in at one of two locations to have their tickets scanned for entry: Johnston Gate and Widener Gate. Note that Tercentenary Theatre will not be accessible during this event, and guests are asked to avoid passing through the Science Center Plaza where the Class of 2021 event will be held. 6:30–10:00 PM Class Day Dinner for the Class of 2021 Science Center Plaza. Dinner reception from 6:30–8:00 p.m., formal program with remarks from 8:00–9:00 p.m., and casual social time from 9:00–10:00 p.m. This event is for the graduates and guests. Each graduate can request up to three guest tickets for this event. Graduates and guests can check in at one of two locations to have their tickets scanned for entry: entering the Plaza from Peabody Street (the street that runs behind Mower and Phillips Brooks House) and from the corner of Oxford and Kirkland Streets (between the Science Center and Memorial Hall). Note that Tercentenary Theatre will not be accessible during this event, and guests are asked to avoid passing through the Old Yard where the Class of 2020 event will be held. Sunday, May 29 11:00 AM–8:00 PM Headquarters Housing Check-In and Check-Out Cabot Science Library, Harvard Science Center. For graduates. If you have on-campus housing, this is where you can pick up your room key and card access. 6:00 AM House (and Dudley Community) Champagne Breakfast View the location for each House and Community. This event is for graduates only. 6:30 AM Yard Gates Open Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard Yard. For guests. 8:00 AM University-Wide Commencement Ceremony Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard Yard. Commencement will honor all University-wide graduates from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 and will feature all the pomp and circumstance of a traditional Harvard Commencement, including an address from the principal speaker, U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland, AB ’74, JD ’77. This event is for graduates and guests. Graduates will process from the Houses and will sit separate from their guests. Each graduate can request up to three guest tickets for this event. The program will also be livestreamed at harvard.edu/live. 11:00 AM House (and Dudley Community) Recognition and Luncheon View the location for each House and Community. This event is for the graduates and guests. Each graduate can request up to three guest tickets for this event. 2:30–5:00 PM Department Celebrations and Mini-Reunions For the graduates and guests. Invitations issued in advance. 6:30–11:00 PM Farewell Dinner and Dance Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard Yard. This is a combined event for the College Classes of 2020 and 2021. This event is for graduates only. Graduates can check in at one of two locations to have their tickets scanned for entry: Johnston Gate and Widener Gate. Monday, May 30 8:00–10:00 AM Headquarters Housing Check-Out Cabot Science Library, Harvard Science Center. If you had on-campus housing, this is where you return your room key and card access. FAQs for the College Classes of 2020 and 2021 When will programming take place? A University-wide Commencement will take place on the morning of Sunday, May 29, 2022. Additional programming for the College will take place on Saturday, May 28 and Sunday, May 29. See the full schedule above. What will the schedule of events be during the weekend? Based on conversations with the 2020 and 2021 Class Committees, and with a focus on inclusivity and joyousness, the programming on Saturday will include a brunch in Annenberg, a class photo, time to catch up with one another informally, House receptions, and class dinners. Programming on Sunday will include a champagne breakfast in the Houses before proceeding to the Yard, the University-wide Commencement program, House luncheon programs, time for department celebrations, and a dance for the two classes. See the full schedule above. Will the events be live-streamed or recorded? The Commencement Ceremony the morning of May 29 will be live-streamed and available for later viewing. The House Recognition programs will be recorded and made available for later viewing. Can I stay on campus? Yes! On-campus housing is an option for the evenings of Saturday, May 28 and Sunday, May 29 for College alumni from the Classes of 2020 and 2021. Space constraints preclude the housing of guests in on-campus housing. Can I stay in my assigned House? While campus housing will be an option to members of the Classes of 2020 and 2021, we do not yet know if we will be able to house you specifically in your House or Community. If we can accommodate this, we want to be realistic that you probably won’t be assigned in your old room though. You will be able to sign up for campus housing when registration for the events launches later this spring. How much will this cost? There will be no charge for any events, programs, or food served during Saturday and Sunday on campus for graduates and guests. There will also be no charge for campus housing for graduates. Who is invited? All College graduates from the Class of 2020 and 2021 who have not participated in an in-person Commencement in Cambridge are welcome and encouraged to return! Can I bring guests to events? We fully expect that you may want to invite family and friends to help celebrate. Graduates will be responsible for registering themselves and their guests. For reasons of safety and comfort, up to three guest tickets can be requested for the events for the College Classes where guests are invited (House Receptions, Class Day Dinners, Commencement ceremony, and House Recognition and Luncheon). As usual, some of the events are only for members of the Classes of 2020 and 2021. Is this a combined 2020 and 2021 celebration? Many of the events throughout the weekend will bring together graduates from both classes. Some of the events, like the class photos and the dinners on Saturday evening, will be separate. Where can I find more information at this time? In addition to these FAQs, additional ones, as well as other information, can be found on the University-wide website. How do I register? Registration is now live! Graduates should check their email for a registration form link and are responsible for registering themselves and their guests. All graduates planning to attend will need to formally register. Where can I send questions? Questions can be sent to commencement_20and21@harvard.edu. What should I do if I haven't been receiving emails? In order to ensure that you receive all updates, please make sure that your contact information, including your preferred email address, is correct in your HAA Alumni Directory profile at community.alumni.harvard.edu/person. We recognize that some alumni may affiliate with a different College class than the Class of 2020 or Class of 2021 but had planned to participate in the Commencement with one of these classes. For any questions related to this, please email haa_collegealumniprograms@harvard.edu. Where can I get a stole for an affinity group? Graduates who did not receive an affinity graduation stole in 2020 or 2021 and will be participating in the May 29 Commencement can request one on the stole request form. Virtual Celebrations for the College Classes of 2020 and 2021 Honoring the Class of 2020 (University-wide program from May 2020) Celebrating the Harvard College Class of 2020 (College program from May 2020) Honoring the Class of 2021 (University-wide program from May 2021) Harvard College Class Day 2021 (College program from May 2021) Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College