Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Giving The Social Alternative Fund Menu Main menu Giving Overview Give Online Planned Giving Gifts That Pay You Income Lead Trusts Assets You Can Give Events Harvard Planned Gift Administration Resources Meet the Staff Contact Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Types of Bequests How to Make a Bequest Benefits of a Bequest Future Use Attorney & Advisor Info Gift Policy Guide Tax Information FAQ Giving Contacts As a result of an ongoing dialogue with alumni and students interested in socially responsible investing, the University has established the Social Alternative Fund. Gifts to the Social Alternative Fund will be invested in an external mutual fund that gives special consideration to social responsibility issues when making investments. The fund is an additional opportunity available for donors who want to support both Harvard and broader social interests. There is no minimum gift amount. Each year, 20 percent of the fund's beginning market value will be dedicated to support financial aid across the University. The fund will be managed separately from the endowment and will be invested in the Parnassus Core Equity Fund. For more information, please contact Fern Groebe at veritas@harvard.edu or 617-495-1661. Make a gift to the Social Alternative Fund today. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College