Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Europe Summer River Travel July 07 - July 17, 2022 Oberammergau Passion Play and Danube River Cruise Reserve your Space View the Trip Brochure Sara S. Poor, Associate Professor of German at Princeton University Sara S. Poor ("Sally") is currently Associate Professor of German at Princeton University and recently completed her second term as Director of the Program in Medieval Studies at Princeton University. Earning her PhD from Duke University's Graduate Program in Literature, she went on to teach at the University of Erlangen and at Stanford University before joining the faculty at Princeton in 2002. Her primary research interests are in the areas of Gender Studies and medieval German literature. She also has a passion for all aspects of medieval history and culture, from late Roman Empire to the early modern period. Her published work focuses on medieval women mystics, their writings, and their reception (e.g., Mechthild von Magdeburg and Her Book [2004], Mysticism and Reform 1400-1750 [2015]). While her current research focuses on women writers of devotional literature and the history of the book, future projects include a study of late medieval literary re-tellings of the Charlemagne legends. About the Journey Princeton Journeys is delighted to announce an opportunity to experience one of the world’s greatest dramatic spectacles, the extravagant Passion Play staged once a decade by residents of the quaint village of Oberammergau. With a cast of thousands and a legacy that encompasses nearly four centuries, Oberammergau’s rare tradition is made even more exceptional with this program’s specially reserved seating and thoughtfully arranged cultural enrichments. This custom itinerary begins with a five-night deluxe cruise along the fabled Danube River, with ports of call in Budapest, Hungary; Bratislava, Slovakia; Vienna, Austria; and Melk, Germany. Disembark in Passsau and transfer to medieval Salzburg, a UNESCO World Heritage site and scenic backdrop for The Sound of Music. Next, spend two nights in a charming hotel in the Bavarian Alps just outside Oberammergau and enjoy the 2022 Passion Play with your fellow Princetonians. Conclude this once-in-a-lifetime adventure with two nights in the 800-year-old city of Munich, Bavaria’s historic capital. Reservations To register, please fill out the registration form. Questions? Email journeys@princeton.edu. Contact Us journeys@princeton.edu Follow Us on Facebook @princetonjourneys Subscribe to the Mailing List See All Upcoming Journeys Trip Details Dates July 07 - July 17, 2022 Activity Level Moderate Cost from $4,665 per person Deposit $800 per person Contact journeys@princeton.edu 609-258-8686 Contact Us journeys@princeton.edu Follow Us on Facebook @princetonjourneys Subscribe to the Mailing List See All Upcoming Journeys Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram