Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Awards Throughout the year, alumni are honored for their exemplary work and service, both to the University and to the world. Awards Nobel laureate Maria Ressa ’86, composer Julia Wolfe *12 and student award winners honored at Princeton Alumni Day The event was the first in-person alumni celebration on campus in two years. Meet the Honorees 2021 Annual Giving Distinguished Achievement Awards Annual Giving applauds volunteer achievements Annual Giving honored volunteer leaders for their achievements in the 2020-21 campaign during a series of online celebrations in February. Alumni Day Awards Considered the most prestigious awards given to alumni, the Woodrow Wilson Award and James Madison Medal are conferred on Alumni Day to an undergraduate alumnus/a and an alumnus/a of the Graduate School. Woodrow Wilson Award James Madison Medal Watch: Woodrow Wilson Award Recipient Maria Ressa ’86 James Madison Medal Award Recipient Julia Wolfe *12 Pulitzer Prize-winning composer Julia Wolfe *12 received the top graduate alumni award, the James Madison Medal, at Princeton’s Alumni Day on Saturday, Feb. 19. Award for Service to Princeton The Alumni Council Award for Service to Princeton recognizes outstanding service contributions to Princeton by any member of the Princeton family, with special emphasis on those who serve significantly, but inconspicuously. Award recipients are recognized at events during Reunions. Make A Nomination Learn More 2022 Honorees for Service to Princeton Alumni Council names Service to Princeton award winners The Award for Service to Princeton was presented to four Princetonians during the annual meeting of the Alumni Council that was held on campus on Friday, May 20. Reunions Awards Select an award for more information... Regional Association Awards Class Awards Reunions Awards Princeton Schools Committee S. Barksdale Penick, Jr. ’25 Award Regional association awards include those given for recognition for increasing participation of Princeton graduate alumni, general excellence, new and innovative programming and major reinvigoration efforts. View Awards and Recipients Class awards include those with the most complete program of communication, activities and dues participation; for largest percentage of membership attending any gathering during the year between Reunions; and the highest percentage of dues payers in a class. View Awards and Recipients Several awards are presented to alumni and alumni organizations at the Alumni Council’s Annual Reunion Lunch held Friday during Reunions, which will be virtual this year. View Awards and Recipients This award recognizes the regional Alumni Schools Committee (ASC) whose activities, enthusiasm and imagination have most effectively realized the primary goals of Schools Committee work. View Awards and Recipients Make a Nomination The Committee on Regional Associations encourages and awards innovation among its 160 regional associations found throughout the world. The committee invites all alumni to nominate deserving alumni for this prestigious award. CORA Award for Innovation Nomination APGA Regional Association Award First awarded in 2007, the APGA Regional Association Award is given annually by the Association of Princeton Graduate Alumni (APGA) to a Princeton regional association that deserves special recognition for increasing participation of Princeton graduate alumni in its regional activities and/or fostering the cause of graduate education and the Graduate School at Princeton University. Read Nomination Guidelines Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram