Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Giving to Princeton from Outside the U.S. Jump to Introduction United Kingdom FAQ: Giving from the UK Giving from Europe Giving from Canada Giving from Hong Kong Contact Jump to Introduction United Kingdom FAQ: Giving from the UK Giving from Europe Giving from Canada Giving from Hong Kong Contact Giving to Princeton from Outside the U.S. Introduction Give from near and far: If you live outside the United States and are considering a gift to Princeton, you can, in most cases, give online using your credit card. In other cases, we may be able to provide you with details such as fees, basic tax information, and partner organizations that can help process your gift. The United Kingdom, 16 other countries in Europe, and Canada have well-developed procedures for giving to US universities. Even if your country is not listed here, you can still give to Princeton. Governments around the world often introduce new ways to support institutions like Princeton. We can help you navigate the giving landscape. United Kingdom Many alumni and friends in the United Kingdom wish to support education at Princeton University. For this reason, the Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited was set up as an English charity recognized both by the United States Internal Revenue Service, by virtue of its relationship with Princeton University, as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization, and by the Charity Commission for England and Wales as a registered charity. Gifts of cash and securities made to the Foundation are tax-deductible for US taxpayers to the full extent of the US tax code and may also provide tax benefits to UK taxpayers, including participation in the UK Gift Aid Scheme for gifts of cash, and income tax and capital gains tax reliefs for gifts of qualifying securities. We regret that the UK Foundation is unable to accept class dues. Making a Gift of Cash to the Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited If you wish to make a gift to advance education at Princeton University, you can make a gift of cash to the Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited. You can follow these steps: Complete a Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited Gift Reply Form. If appropriate to the circumstances, complete the Gift Aid Declaration Form, which will allow the Foundation to make a Gift Aid reclaim from the UK government. The Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited will be responsible for collecting this Gift Aid reclaim from the UK government (higher or additional rate taxpayers can claim an additional relief on their Self Assessment tax return). The form includes a box that, when checked, authorizes the Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited to collect Gift Aid for the enclosed gift as well as all future gifts to the Foundation until advised otherwise, and also donations made up to four years previously. If that box is checked, the Gift Aid Declaration Form will be kept on record for future donations to this Foundation. Please note that to make a Gift Aid donation, you must pay at least as much UK tax (Income Tax and/or Capital Gains Tax) as the amount of tax that the Foundation is entitled to reclaim, minus 25% of the amount you donate. Send the contribution and completed forms to: Eileen Flood, Administrator Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited 19 Norcott Road London N16 7EJ United Kingdom Tel: 020.7502.2813 UKFOUND@princeton.edu To make a gift by credit card, please call Eileen Flood at the number listed above. After the contribution has been sent, Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited will send every UK donor an acknowledgement for all gifts received. The Foundation's current policy is to deposit all gifts into the Foundation’s UK bank account and convert all gifts to US dollars at that time. The Foundation will consider requests made by donors as to how their donation is to be applied. Where a donation is to be applied to support Princeton University, the Foundation’s administrator will notify Princeton University of the gift, noting the US dollar amount and, when applicable, an anticipated Gift Aid amount (also in US dollars). The gift and anticipated Gift Aid amount will be combined and reported as one gift to Princeton. In respect of any gift received by the Foundation a US gift receipt for the amount calculated as per step 6, plus any anticipated Gift Aid amount, will be sent to the UK donor. Making a Gift of Securities to the Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited If you wish to support education at Princeton University through a gift of securities to the Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited, you should follow these steps: Contact the Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited to obtain the necessary securities transfer instructions. Eileen Flood, Administrator Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited 19 Norcott Road London N16 7EJ United Kingdom Tel: 020.7502.2813 UKFOUND@princeton.edu After the gift has been made, the Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited will send every UK donor an acknowledgement for all gifts received. Gifts will be acknowledged on the date of receipt by the Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited. The amount acknowledged will be based on the mean between the high and low on the date of receipt. The Foundation's current policy is to deposit all gifts of securities into the Foundation’s brokerage account and will sell the securities and reduce the proceeds to US dollars as soon as possible. The amount realized from the sale of the securities will be the amount available for distribution. The Foundation will consider requests made by donors as to how their donation is to be applied. Where a donation is to be applied to support Princeton University, the Foundation’s administrator will notify Princeton University of the gift, noting the US dollar amount. In respect of any gift received by the Foundation a US gift receipt for the amount calculated as per step 3, plus any anticipated Gift Aid amount, will be sent to the UK donor. Registered Office Address—16 Old Bailey, London, EC4M 7EG Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited • Registered in England and Wales Charity Number 1123916—Company Registration Number 06579652 FAQ: Giving from the UK Why is it good for donors? Although registered in the UK, the Foundation’s sole shareholder is Princeton University and it is treated for US federal tax purposes as part of the University. This structure not only offers tax relief to UK taxpayers but also enables those who are liable for both UK and US tax to obtain tax relief in both countries on the same contribution. If you pay tax at the higher or additional rate, you can claim back the difference between the higher rate of tax (40%) or the additional rate of tax (45%) and the basic rate of tax (20%) on the total value of the donation. UK taxpayers may also receive income tax relief and exemption from capital gains tax on the value of securities that they give to the Foundation. Those who are also liable for US tax may receive similar benefits on their US tax returns. Additional estate-related relief benefits are possible. Please visit the HM Revenue and Customs website for further information. Why is it good for Princeton? Making a gift using the Gift Aid Scheme increases the amount of the gift by enabling the charity to reclaim the basic rate of tax on the gift. Currently, for every £1 donated, the charity can reclaim approximately an additional 25p from HM Revenue and Customs. This means that a £1,000 gift is worth £1,250 to the charity. When can the Gift Aid Scheme apply? The Gift Aid Scheme applies to charitable gifts of cash made by UK taxpayers where that taxpayer’s income and/or capital gains tax liability in the year the gift is made is equal to or greater than the amount the charity will claim for the gift. The UK tax year runs from 6 April to 5 April, and there may be some limited scope for donors to 'carry back' a gift into a previous tax year. For more information, please consult your tax advisor or visit the HM Revenue & Customs website. How do I apply? Complete a Gift Aid Declaration Form and include it with your gift payable to the Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited. The Foundation will then apply to HM Revenue and Customs to claim a portion of the tax you have already paid. There is no limit to how often Gift Aid relief can be claimed so long as you have paid (or are liable to pay) sufficient UK income tax and capital gains tax to cover the amount reclaimed by the Foundation; one gift declaration can cover all current and future gifts to the Foundation and gifts made in the previous four years. What if I claim at the higher tax rate? If you pay the higher rate tax, you can claim the difference between the higher rates of tax (40% or 45%) and the basic rate of tax (20%) on the gross value of your donation to the charity. For example, if you donate £100, the gross value of your donation to the charity is £125. If you pay tax at the 45% rate, you can claim back 25% of this (£31.25) for yourself. You can make this claim on your Self Assessment tax return. For more information on Gift Aid qualifications, please visit the HM Revenue & Customs website. Here are additional examples of donations made in dollars and pounds sterling. What types of gifts qualify for Gift Aid? Gifts can be made by cash, check, credit card, or wire transfer. Gifts not generated exclusively from individual personal income, such as gifts of stock, do not qualify for Gift Aid; nor do gifts received from a corporate entity, foundation trust, or payroll deduction. However, the Foundation can still accept such gifts and these may attract other types of tax relief. We regret that the UK Foundation is unable to accept class dues. What types of gifts are accepted by PCFL? Gifts by check, credit card, and wire transfer, as well as gifts of stock are accepted. Legacies and certain gifts of real property (land) are also eligible for UK tax relief. What currency is accepted? Pounds sterling or US dollars. Will my company match my gift to PCFL? If your employer matches gifts to UK charities, your gift should be matched. Does a gift I make jointly with someone else qualify for Gift Aid? Yes, but you must tell the charity how much is from each of you, and you each need to sign a separate if the whole amount is to qualify. What happens after I give? The Foundation will send you a letter of acknowledgment for your original gift. The Foundation will collect the appropriate Gift Aid from HM Revenue & Customs. Finally, Princeton will send all donors a letter of acknowledgment (for both the gift and Gift Aid amount, if applicable) to be used for US tax purposes. Whom do I contact to make a gift to PCFL? Eileen Flood, Administrator Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited 19 Norcott Road London N16 7EJ United Kingdom Tel: 020.7502.2813 UKFOUND@princeton.edu Registered Office Address—16 Old Bailey, London, EC4M 7EG Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited • Registered in England and Wales Charity Number 1123916—Company Registration Number 06579652 Giving from Europe For the convenience of our alumni, parents, and friends in Europe, the Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited is now a beneficiary of Transnational Giving Europe (TGE), a network of philanthropic institutions. Donors who live in participating countries may be able to make gifts to Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited that qualify for tax benefits in their resident country. The following countries participate in TGE: Belgium Bulgaria France Germany Hungary Ireland Italy Luxembourg The Netherlands Poland Portugal Romania Slovakia Slovenia Spain Switzerland For further information, please contact: Eileen Flood, Administrator Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited 19 Norcott Road London N16 7 EJ United Kingdom Telephone: +44.20.7502.2813 UKFOUND@princeton.edu Giving from Canada Giving to Princeton from Canada is easy, and may have tax benefits. Princeton has “prescribed status” under the Canadian Income Tax Act, which means that Canadian donors may claim a non-refundable tax credit on their Canadian income tax return with an official donation receipt from Princeton. Giving from Hong Kong The Princeton Hong Kong Charitable Foundation Limited is recognized as a tax-exempt charity under Section 88 of the Inland Revenue Ordinance (Cap. 112) by the Hong Kong Inland Revenue Department (IRD) as well as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization by the IRS in the US. US Taxpayer ID: 98-1543048 Hong Kong IRD Registry No.: 2867863 With your gift to the Princeton Hong Kong Charitable Foundation Limited, you may be eligible to receive a Hong Kong tax benefit. If you pay both Hong Kong and US taxes, you may be eligible to receive a tax credit in both countries. * We regret that the HK Foundation is unable to accept class dues. Make a gift of cash to the Princeton Hong Kong Charitable Foundation Limited If you wish to make a gift to advance education at Princeton University, you can make a gift of cash to the Princeton Hong Kong Charitable Foundation Limited. You can follow these steps: 1. Complete a Princeton Hong Kong Charitable Foundation Limited Gift Reply Form. 2. Send the contribution and completed forms to: Eleanor Poulton, Administrator Princeton Hong Kong Charitable Foundation Limited 304, 3rd Floor, Tesbury Centre 28 Queen's Road East Wanchai, Hong Kong Tel: +852 2866 1535 HKFoundation@princeton.edu 3. To make a gift by wire transfer, please contact Eleanor Poulton at the email and number listed above. 4. The Foundation's current policy is to deposit all gifts into the Foundation’s HK bank account and convert all gifts to US dollars at that time. 5. The Foundation will consider requests made by donors as to how their donation is to be applied. Where a donation is to be applied to support Princeton University, the Foundation’s administrator will notify Princeton University of the gift, noting the US dollar amount. 6. In respect of any gift received by the Foundation, a US gift receipt for the amount, calculated as per step 3, will be sent to the HK donor. *Tax benefits: Hong Kong taxpayers may claim deductions for their charitable contributions up to 35% of total assessable income or profits for the tax year. We recommend that you consult with your tax advisor. Contact For information on giving from outside the United States, please contact: Kurt Rodgers, Associate Director, International Development Princeton University Office of Development 100 Overlook Center, Suite 300 Princeton, NJ 08540 USA Tel: +1.609.258.7164 kurtr@princeton.edu For information on the Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited in the UK and Europe, please contact: Eileen Flood, Administrator Princeton Charitable Foundation Limited 19 Norcott Road London N16 7EJ United Kingdom Tel: +44.20.7502.2813 UKFOUND@princeton.edu Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram