Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Get Involved Jump to… Welcome Find the Right Fit Explore Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Resources Welcome The YAA mission is to enhance and renew the lifelong Yale experience for all alumni, whoever they are and wherever they may be. If you’re interested in joining us but are not quite sure where to begin, we have the tools to help. If you already know what you’re looking for, scroll down to the Explore Volunteer Opportunities section to find your program. Yale Day of Service - Santa Barbara, California Back to Top Find the Right Fit Info Accordions WHY are you getting involved? Below are some of the reasons that alumni maintain or renew their involvement with Yale. Which one (or several) speak loudest to you? I feel a personal or professional connection to Yale as an academic institution. I’m interested in shaping the activities of the alumni body. I want to support the university and its efforts to maintain excellence in multiple areas. I want to connect with current Yale students. I want to connect with fellow Yale alumni. I have skills I’d like to share with a good cause. I feel inspired to give back to my community. I’m looking for a community that shares a particular interest or identity with me. WHAT would you like to do? There are roles, activities, and programs available for almost any skill set imaginable. I’m interested in collaborating with other alums to plan events, lectures, or programs. I’d like to lend a particular skill or expertise to a Yale group, such as professional advice, event planning, or communications. I feel excited to interact with current and/or recent graduates in a mentorship role. I want to help tell Yale’s story through online and digital outlets including social media, email, and newsletters. I am interested in recruiting volunteers for service, fundraising, and/or event support. I wish to bring Yale to my local community through service-related volunteerism. WHO would you like to connect with? The Yale alumni body is growing increasingly diverse. If you’re looking for a community, you’re almost certainly not alone. I would like to connect with… Members from my Yale College class Fellow alumni in my geographic region, state, or city Members from my graduate or professional program Alumni from my residential college Alumni who share a specific interest or identity of mine Current Yale students Alumni from my professional field Recent Yale graduates Prospective Yale students Yale parents WHERE would you like to volunteer? Location, location, location! Sometimes it doesn’t matter what you’re doing or who you’re with … the folks in your own backyard (or digital space) are it. I can participate in conference calls, by email, or webinar. I can meet in person in my local region. I can travel to New Haven for in-person meetings and events. Back to Top Explore Volunteer Opportunities Alumni Schools Committee Yale Alumni Fund Class Agent YAA Assembly Delegate Mentoring Students Service Activities Speak at Career Events Yale Regional Clubs Yale College Classes Shared Interest Groups Graduate and Professional School Alumni Groups Back to Top Volunteer Resources Alumni Leadership Directory Volunteer Recognition Volunteer Toolkits for Alumni Leaders Back to Top Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page