Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Alumni Benefits Jump to… Benefits Overview Campus Welcome Lifelong Learning & Library Access Yale E-News Career Support Yale Mastercard® for Alumni Yale Alumni Magazine Benefits Overview The benefits of your Yale affiliation last a lifetime. All Yale alumni, post-doctoral fellows, and international affiliates automatically gain access to: Alumni events on and off campus The global network of regional Yale clubs as well as interest groups, Graduate & professional school associations, and other organizations. Yale College alumni also benefit from class organizations and events, such as 5-year reunions. Educational and travel opportunities Communications such as YaleNews and the Yale Alumni Magazine In addition to these programs, we work with vendors and campus partners to create special access and offers for you. Please take advantage of these perks of being part of the Yale alumni family! Campus Welcome We encourage alumni to visit campus any time throughout the year. Check out Visit Campus for campus event calendars, access information, and recommendations on eating and staying in New Haven. Back to Top Lifelong Learning & Library Access Take advantage of a wealth of intellectual opportunities for alumni, including in-person programs on campus and around the globe, educational travel experiences, and online services like Coursera, iTunesU, and academic journal services like JSTOR. Also, the Yale University Library offers access for all Yale alumni and spouses. Access levels range from free to $200 per year and are for in-person access/borrowing only. For more information on the levels and privileges associated with each, please visit the Alumni Borrowing Guide. Back to Top Online Resources Stay in touch with your fellow alumni and the university through the online community! Update your information Search the directory Sign up for your alumni email account (YaleMail) Unlock Online Services Today! Back to Top Yale E-News Through its many departments, affiliates, and schools, Yale offers a wide variety of electronic newsletters and e-communications to keep you up to date on all you want to know about the university and beyond, including YaleToday. Manage your e-news at the Yale subscriptions page (login required). Back to Top Career Support Check out Yale's resources for professional development, such as one-on-one career support from on-campus career offices, the Cross Campus mentoring and networking platform, and alumni-to-alumni career programs. More information is available in the Networking & Careers section of this site. Back to Top Yale Mastercard® for Alumni Apply for your official today and support Yale with every $1 you spend. Now you can take Yale with you, wherever you go, anywhere in the world. Mastercard information. Back to Top Yale Alumni Magazine Since 1891, Yale Alumni Magazine has been reporting on Yale and its alumni. All alumni receive the magazine either in print or by email, published six times per year, and have access to private online features such as class notes. Not receiving the magazine in your mailbox? Update your contact information today! Back to Top Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page