Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Cornell Volunteer Leadership Week Homecoming Reunion Cornell traditions Visit Ithaca Come back George Epstein ’15 celebrates his arrival on Cornell’s Ithaca campus after 11 months on the road. Photo: Provided Cornell is here for you Alumni return to Cornell for a variety of reasons. Some hop on the bus to gather with friends at Homecoming, while some cross the ocean for Reunion. Some arrive with their teenage children who are thinking about attending Cornell, and some come back virtually, to use the library or listen to a thought-provoking lecture via livestream. Whenever you return, we invite you to take a tour of campus and see what’s new and what has stayed the same. Visit the Dairy Bar, stroll through the Cornell Botanic Gardens, or drop in on your favorite professor. Come back any time—Cornell is here for you. Explore Ithaca area attractions Let your Big Red spirit shine Cornell traditions Join in the International Spirit of Zinck’s Night or listen to your favorite Cornell song. No matter where you are, you can celebrate Cornell. Homecoming Each fall, the Cornell community gathers to reconnect with old friends and make new memories. Make plans now to come home to Cornell. Reunion In the second week of June, the university pulls out the stops to showcase the very best of Cornell with alumni and their families and friends. Reminisce, reconnect, and join us at Reunion. SEE EVENTS IN ITHACA AND BEYOND Ithaca area attractions Ithaca is more than just gorges! Revisit your favorite college haunts and discover why the Finger Lakes region is now a trending destination. VISIT ITHACA The Ithaca Farmer's Market. Photo: Robert Barker/Cornell Marketing Group Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022