Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Networking & Careers You care about your career. So do we. Yale has services for both students and alumni to make navigating your career options and opportunities a little less daunting. Whether that’s working with Yale’s Office of Career Strategy, webinars to help you along the way, or mentoring and networking, we’re here to help – and to help you help students and young alumni. Learn more and see how we can support your life after Yale. Information Links Mentoring & Networking Cross Campus Cross Campus is Yale’s networking, community-building, and mentoring platform. It facilitates relationships among Yalies – whether alumni to student or alumni to recent alumni – is open to all Yale students and alums, and features a number of ways to engage: Through advice, mentorship, online discussion boards available to Cross Campus users, and by joining Cross Campus groups. Join Cross Campus Career Services Your Career, Your Yale. We Can Help Are you looking to launch or grow your career? Find a job? Make a change? Yale’s Office of Career Strategy (OCS) is here to help. OCS works with students and alumni of Yale College, the Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and postdoctoral fellows to clarify career aspirations, identify opportunities, and offer support at every state of career development.  Learn More about Your Career, Your Yale. We Can Help Networking Events & Programs Careers, Life, and Yale Careers, Life, and Yale features programs that leverage the wisdom and talents of our alumni to support alumni and students – with advice and mentoring as well as events that provide insights into careers and life skills not often available through other forums. Learn More about Careers, Life, and Yale Online Career Webinars Over the past five years, through the remarkable efforts of Peter Young ’74, Yalies have access to an online trove of archived career panels – more than 20 of them! These career panels have been viewed thousands of times. Each panel provides insights from alumni and other experts – in a wide variety of positions and occupations – on what it’s REALLY like to work in those fields. Watch Professional School Career Services Divinity School Office of Career Strategies Forestry and Environmental Studies Career Development School of Management Career Development Office School of Medicine Office of Student Affairs School of Public Health Office of Career Services The Jackson Institute Office of Career Services Yale Law School Career Development You May Also Be Interested In Features Mark Koyama ’15 MDiv leads a quilting ministry to remember George Floyd’s last words Alumni Voices Getting to Know You: Reunion Edition with John Yi ’12+1 Features Congratulations graduates, and welcome to the Yale alumni community! News Yale School of Music: May Alumni News Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page