Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Connect Online Jump to… Online Directory Mentoring & Networking Alumni Email Accounts (YaleMail) Social Media Tools for Volunteers Online Library Resources Privacy It’s never been easier to stay connected. We have the online tools you need to keep in touch with your Yale community. Online Directory Keep your contact information up to date so you don't miss out on events in your area or campus news of interest! The directory also allows you to search for and connect with other alumni, and you can control which of your information is visible to others. Log in today or check out the Help Center for more details. Use your online directory login credentials to access several online academic journal resources provided by Yale University Library. Click here for more information and links to log in. Back to Top Mentoring & Networking Cross Campus is Yale’s networking, community-building, and mentoring platform. It facilitates relationships among Yalies – whether alumni to student or alumni to recent alumni – and is open to all Yale students and alums. The platform features a number of ways to engage: Through advice, mentorship, online discussion boards available to Cross Campus users, and by joining Cross Campus groups. Cross Campus extends our campus community beyond New Haven and bolsters the alumni experience by harnessing the power of the Yale community. Back to Top Alumni Email Accounts (YaleMail) YaleMail is a branded, fully functional, and web-based email service for alumni, offered through Google Apps for Education. All alumni, post-doctoral fellows, and international affiliates are eligible for YaleMail. You can link your YaleMail @aya.yale.edu account to other Gmail accounts, or forward to another email address, if desired. Please visit the Help Center for more information. Back to Top Social Media Yalies are social people, and in an ever-connected world, social media is a great way to keep up with all the latest news about Yale, fellow alumni, programs of interest, events, and more. To do so, follow the official Yale Alumni Association social media channels on Twitter and Instagram at @yalealumni. Looking for a more specific group to connect with online? Try joining a closed Facebook group such as Yale Alumni, visit our service pages – Yale Day of Service or Yale Alumni Service Corps – or follow one of the many social media pages and accounts organized by classes, regional clubs, and shared interest groups – or, if you're a graduate student, by your graduate school department or professional school. Back to Top Yale Alumni Association on Facebook @YaleAlumni on Twitter @YaleAlumni on Instagram Yale Alumni Association on YouTube @YaleAlumni on TikTok Yale Alumni Association on LinkedIn Back to Top Tools for Volunteers The YAA has partnered with iModules to provide you with the tools you would need to create and maintain a website. It is an online community that consists of a content management system, email marketing tool, event registration tool and a membership tool. To learn more, visit the toolkit for volunteers section. Back to Top Online Library Resources JSTOR and HeinOnline are online journal resources available to the Yale alumni community. To access, login with your online directory credentials here. If you have any questions, email support. Back to Top Privacy Your privacy is important to us. For privacy policies as well as information on how Yale manages alumni data, please consult our Privacy page. Back to Top Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page