Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Students The Harvard Alumni Association, Harvard’s official University-wide alumni association, is a dues-free organization composed of all University students (yes, you!) and graduates. Learn more about the resources available to you as a member of the HAA, and find out how you can engage your alumni network. Learn More About the HAA View Alumni Directory Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers The Harvard Alumni Association maintains and enhances a highly engaged, vibrant community of alumni and friends worldwide. The purpose of the HAA is to promote the welfare of Harvard University and to establish a mutually beneficial relationship between Harvard University and its alumni. This is your community, today and after you graduate, and your unique experiences and perspectives bring it to life. After you complete one semester at Harvard, you're a lifetime member! The College Alumni Programs office of the HAA serves more than 100,000 Harvard and Radcliffe College alumni and undergraduates. It oversees and develops programming to preserve and maintain Harvard traditions and to create new opportunities to connect members of the Harvard community with one another and the University. We hope you take advantage of these opportunities to engage with your alumni community during your time at Harvard and after you graduate. Careers and Networking Connect with more than 400,000 alumni in more than 200 countries through the HAA Alumni Directory Browse alumni profiles by occupation, industry, region, or concentration, and build your network through the LinkedIn Alumni Search Tool Attend Global Networking Night, which brings students and alumni from all of the Harvard schools together Attend the Public Interested Conference to hear from inspiring speakers, interact with alumni, participate in engaging activities, and meet peers who share a passion for public service Learn networking tips and tricks and meet alumni in a casual setting at Networking 101 Learn more about how to make connections with alumni through the Office of Career Services Reach out to alumni to schedule a Coffee Chat to learn more about their experiences Engagement Join one of nearly 200 Harvard Clubs, which are regionally-based groups and available in more than 70 countries Join one of nearly 60 Shared Interest Groups, which are affinity-based communities (similar to student organizations) Connect with alumni from your student organization by sending them newsletters or inviting them to events Gather with members of the Harvard community at one of the HAA's many events held worldwide Follow @HarvardAlumni on Twitter and Instagram Check out the Harvard Alumni Association and Harvard College Alumni pages on Facebook Attend an HAA info session Leadership Help bond your Class through leadership on your Class Committee beginning senior year as you develop resources and plan class-wide events throughout the year, culminating in Senior Week and Class Day Help advise the HAA on ways to best engage the undergraduate and alumni community and promote, lead, and review events and programs by serving on the HAA Student-Alumni Engagement Committee Do you have questions or program ideas? Contact John Prince AB ’13, ALM ’18, Associate Director of College Alumni Programs at the Harvard Alumni Association. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College