Coronavirus (COVID-19) information and resources. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quick Links Update Your Information Make a Gift Ranks and Impacts Visit Parents Association Student Alumni Association Scholarships UC Riverside ALUMNI Search Home Get Involved Get Involved Overview Alumni Networks Advocacy Board of Directors Give Volunteer Travel with Fellow Highlanders Career Services Membership Students Students Overview SAA Executive Board SAA Programs SAA Events Scholarships Care Packages for Students Events About About Overview Board of Directors Notable Alumni Alumni Awards FAQs Contact Us UCR Home Quick Links Update Your Information Make a Gift Ranks and Impacts Visit Parents Association Student Alumni Association Scholarships UCRAA Membership Breadcrumb UCRAA Membership Forever Highlanders UCR has a growing network of alumni across the globe, united by UCR’s world-class education. We invite you to join this powerful community of support, pride, and unity. Become a UCR Alumni Association member – it’s the next best thing to being back on campus. New membership program details coming soon. For additional questions contact, ucralum@ucr.edu. Why Join UCRAA? Your membership strengthens the programs we pride ourselves on at UCR, keeps alumni connected through common ground, and enhances the student experience. Membership Benefits Access to extended career services. Book borrowing privileges at all 10 UC Libraries. Discounts up to 30% off Dell Products. Theme park and concert/events discounts. Hotel and car rental discounts. Free or discounted admission to select UCR Alumni Association events. Discounted insurance through Geico. 10% off UC Riverside Extension Courses and discounts at many UC Extensions. Discounted travel packages through AHI Travel and AESU Young Alumni Journeys. Exclusive invitations to networking events and campus activities. 10% discount at the UCR Bookstore. Discounted tickets to UCR Athletics home events. Discounted Meyer and Associates Insurance Related Products. Spotlight News Premium Subscription Discount. First-time homebuying workshops through American Pacific Mortgage and up to $750 credit towards closing costs and other savings on your purchase or refinance. Annual Members Lifetime Members Membership FAQs How do I access a specific membership benefit? Members can access their exclusive benefits by contacting the Alumni Association at 951.827.2586 or email ucralum@ucr.edu. For Extension Center discounts, please contact a member of the UCR Extension team at 951-827-4105 and have a copy of your membership card accessible for proof of membership. For Bookstore online discount, please contact sm8106@bncollege.com and have a copy of your card. If you are already a member, login below. Annual Members Lifetime Members I lost my membership card. How do I get a replacement? Membership replacement cards are available at any time. Email ucralum@ucr.edu or call our office at 951.827.2586 to obtain a new card. Who can join the UCR Alumni Association? Membership is open to all graduates, former students, current students, parents, faculty, staff, and friends of UCR. Member benefits are subject to change. Do I qualify for dual membership? Any two members residing in the same residence qualify for dual membership rates. Dual members can join online anytime. How long does it take to process membership? It can take up to 4 weeks to receive your personalized membership card in the mail. However, you'll receive a digital version of your membership card instantly if you join online. Do I have to be a member to keep my UCR student email address? UCR Alumni who graduated after 2010 have access to their UCR email address for life, regardless of your UCRAA membership status. If you graduated before 2010, you may have to set up an email forwarding address. For assistance, please call the Alumni Association office at 951.827.2586. For assistance, email ucralum@ucr.edu or call the Alumni Association office at 951.827.2586. Does my membership provide online library journal access? No, however, members can access journal databases by visiting any UC Campus Library. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Alumni Engagement 2203 Alumni & Visitors Center Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-2586 (UCR-ALUMNI) fax: (951) 398-4887 email: ucralum@ucr.edu Follow US: Alumni Facebook Page UCR Alumni Twitter UCR Alumni Instagram UCR Alumni LinkedIn Related Links Student Alumni Association Parents Association Update Contact Information Give Now Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel