Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Giving Planned Giving Meet the Planned Giving Staff Planned Giving Directory Letter from the Executive Director Menu Main menu Giving Overview Give Online Planned Giving Gifts That Pay You Income Lead Trusts Assets You Can Give Events Harvard Planned Gift Administration Resources Meet the Staff Contact Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Types of Bequests How to Make a Bequest Benefits of a Bequest Future Use Attorney & Advisor Info Gift Policy Guide Tax Information FAQ Giving Contacts Anne McClintock Executive Director anne_mcclintock@harvard.edu Anne McClintock is executive director of University Planned Giving at Harvard. As a charitable gift planning specialist for over 25 years, Ms. McClintock has helped donors establish optimal gift arrangements for themselves and Harvard. She also enjoys the privilege of helping individuals grapple with the complexities associated with wealth and legacy. Prior to joining the University, Ms. McClintock developed financing packages for corporations as a loan officer at Bank of Boston (now part of Bank of America). She is a past president of the executive board of the Planned Giving Group of New England, has spoken widely about planned giving, and has served as a consultant to several nonprofit organizations. Ms. McClintock holds an AB in economics from Smith College. Alasdair Halliday AB '82 Director alasdair_halliday@harvard.edu Al Halliday returned to Harvard in 2004 and is the director of University Planned Giving. At Harvard, Al was a member of the Glee Club and the rugby team. Most recently, he was a management consultant for the Monitor Group. Al is a songwriter and jazz pianist, and once played the bagpipes for Ella Fitzgerald. John Christel Senior Associate Director john_christel@harvard.edu John Christel joined University Planned Giving in 2007, following more than 11 years in development work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Prior to moving to the Boston area in 1990, John worked in book and magazine publishing in New York City for over four years. John is a graduate of Vanderbilt University and holds a master's degree in education from Boston University. He and his wife devote all their spare time and energy to raising their twin sons. Jane Verrill Senior Associate Director jane_verrill@harvard.edu Jane Verrill joined University Planned Giving in the fall of 2006. Jane is a graduate of the University of New Hampshire with a dual major in finance and marketing. Before joining University Planned Giving, she was working in the financial industry. Among Jane's many interests are skiing, tennis, traveling, and making jewelry Molly McGowan Coordinator molly_mcgowan@harvard.edu Molly joined the University Planned Giving team in 2019. She is a graduate of Stonehill College and holds a degree in neuroscience. Before joining University Planned Giving, she worked in the FAS Office of Gift Planning. Molly’s many interests include traveling, cooking, walking in the woods with her dog, and spending time with friends and family. Teddy Ansty Development Assistant teddy_ansty@harvard.edu Teddy joined University Planned Giving in 2021. He is a graduate of Randolph-Macon College and holds a bachelor’s degree in economics. Before joining the Planned Giving team, he worked at Goodwill of Central and Coastal Virginia and as an intern at Harvard’s University Planned Giving Office. Teddy’s interests include esports, reading, attending Red Sox games, hiking, and spending quality time with family and friends. Amber Young Development Assistant amber_young@harvard.edu Amber Young joined Harvard as a Staff Assistant at the end of January 2017. She comes to AA&D from WUMB-FM, the University of Massachusetts Boston’s nonprofit, public radio station. At WUMB, Amber was the Office Coordinator and Assistant to the General Manager for six years, specializing in FCC and CPB compliance, as well as special events and project coordination. Over the years at Harvard, Amber has worked with Creative Services, ATSS, the HAA, Research, eventually landing in University Planned Giving. Amber grew up in Cambridge, and after many travels and adventures finds herself back home and at Harvard. Letter from the Executive Director Dear Alumni and Friends, Thank you for visiting our Planned Giving webpage. We are deeply moved by the continued commitment of alumni and friends to Harvard's work in virtually every field to educate and inspire the next generation of world leaders, create new knowledge, and find solutions to address the world's most complex problems. We strive to help our donors make gifts to this amazing university in the most satisfying and prudent ways. For some, this may be a gift that can be used right away at the president's discretion to apply to promising new endeavors. For others, this may mean establishing a gift that produces lifetime income for themselves or others, and then benefits a specific area at Harvard in the future. We hope the following pages will inspire you to explore options of how you can make an impact at Harvard, and far beyond, in the most sensible and advantageous way for you and your family. Our planned giving professionals are available to work with you to draft a gift plan for your unique situation. Thank you for your interest in Harvard University. Sincerely, Anne D. McClintock Contact University Planned Giving Please contact our office for information on gift strategies that can help you support Harvard’s teaching and research and provide significant benefits to you and your family. 124 Mount Auburn Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: 800-446-1277 or 617-495-4647 Fax: 617-495-8130 Email: pgo@harvard.edu Tax I.D. #: ‌04‑210‑3580 Contact Us Gift Strategies Planned Giving Information Explore the benefits of a variety of gift options with our planned giving calculator. The ninth edition of The Harvard Manual on Tax Aspects of Charitable Giving, written by Carolyn Osteen and Martin Hall of Ropes & Gray, LLP is available. Order your copy today. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College