Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Date April 11, 2022 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Examining the Evolution of Women at Brown A unique online networking opportunity and discussion brought together Brunonians from around the world for an evening of insight and connection. On March 16, 2022, more than 180 alumni, parents, students, and faculty came together virtually to discuss the evolving role of women at Brown over the past 130 years. The evening featured a special welcome from President Christina H. Paxson and remarks from Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Director Felicia Salinas-Moniz AM’06 PhD’13 — both of whom paid homage to Brown’s female change-makers from generations past while expressing excitement for the future achievements of Brunonian women. The group then split into 15 breakout rooms to continue the conversation in smaller groups, discussing the evolution of personal identities as well as the history of women’s contributions to Brown, the ongoing fight for gender equity, and how Brown can best support students, alumni, and faculty moving forward. Centered around the question “Where have we been and where are we going?” the evening drew a direct connection between past, present, and future generations of Brown women. Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Director Felicia Salinas-Moniz AM’06 PhD’13 begins her presentation during this March 16, 2022 event presented by the Brown Women's Network. Attending alumnae enjoyed reconnecting with their fellow Brunonians as they tackled a range of important topics. Feedback included: “Loved meeting all the women of Brown in my break-out session! WOW! Across the course of life we continue to walk, talk, and LEAD!” “The event helped me reflect on my time at Brown and how those experiences shaped who I am as a leader and as a person today!” “The breakout groups that connected women to women of different generations were so powerful.” “Happy to learn more about the Sarah Doyle Center and to be invited to visit next time we're on campus, which for me is two months away for my 45th Brown Reunion.” The Brown Women’s Network invites you to join in the celebration of 130 Years of Women at Brown by attending an upcoming event. Please visit the Brown Women's Network page to learn more about upcoming programs, events, and offerings, or follow along on social media. Related Links Brown Women's Network Alumni Events Calendar Tags Alumni Brown Women's Network Brunonia Community Events Related News Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President & Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 April 28, 2022 By helping educators access crucial information resources, Hintermeister taps into passions she discovered as a Brown undergrad: sharing knowledge and giving back. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President &amp; Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Examining the Evolution of Women at Brown Open details for Examining the Evolution of Women at Brown Bookmark this Page