Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Cornell Forbes 30 Under 30 Cornell clubs Class connections Young Alumni Programs Diversity Alumni Programs and Cornell Mosaic Alumni career support Networking Connect with students Downloads Cornell clubs On this page Stay in touch with your Cornell community Signature events Cornell’s alumni network is a quarter-million strong worldwide, and regional Cornell clubs serve a vital role in connecting alumni to each other and to the university. Cornell clubs also engage local communities, extending the university’s impact far beyond campus. With more than 80 across the United States and 20 in other countries, Cornell clubs invite you and other alumni to enjoy a variety of events while deepening your social and professional ties. Cornell clubs also offer leadership opportunities that develop your interpersonal, organizational, and creative-thinking skills—where you can work with university staff in creating meaningful and inspiring experiences for your Cornell community. Each club has its unique personality and interests. Check out events in your area. Past examples include: Exclusive tour of Mohegan Sun in Connecticut Slope Day in Austin, Texas A tasting event featuring all Cornell connected restaurant vendors in New York City Coffee meet-ups in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania As a member or as a leader of your regional Cornell club, we hope to see you at an event in your area soon!. Stay in touch with your Cornell community Help us reach you Update your information on Cornell Connect to be sure to get local invitations. Join events near you Find and attend events wherever you may be. Connect with your club or group Reach out to your local club. You can also read up on recent club activities on this blog. Signature events International Spirit of Zinck's Night Toast to Cornell traditions and memories. Cornell Cares Day Make a difference in your local community. Student receptions and student send-offs Join other alumni in recruiting or welcoming new students. Faculty and alumni talks Learn from Cornell's thought leaders, including those featured in the Return to the Classroom series. Join events near you Return to campus or find a Big Red party in your own neighborhood. SEE EVENTS Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022