Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Giving from Outside the U.S. – United Kingdom Breadcrumb Home Giving How to Give The Brown University Charitable Trust (Brown UK Trust) is a registered charity in both the UK and the US which enables UK taxpayers to obtain UK tax relief. It also may allow those liable for UK and US tax to obtain tax relief in both countries on the same contribution to Brown. Please consult with your tax advisor on your specific situation. As a donor to the Brown UK Trust, you will receive relief on your taxes and Brown will receive additional funds from the British government in the form of Gift Aid, currently equal to 25% of the original donation. For example, your £1,000 gift yields £1,250 for Brown. You will also receive gift credit for the incremental proceeds as they are added to your contribution and designated to the same purpose as your original gift. Gifts can be made in either £ sterling or US $ by check or wire transfer. The Brown UK Trust reserves the right to deduct a small percentage of the Gift Aid to cover its administrative costs. Only gifts made through the UK Trust are eligible for Gift Aid and a Gift Aid Declaration must be on file with the Brown UK Trust or accompany your gift. Please download the Gift Aid Declaration form and FAQS (PDF). For more information about the Brown UK Trust, please contact Connie DiPanfilo in the Office of International Advancement at constance_dipanfilo@brown.edu. Learn more about Gift Aid. If you have any questions regarding giving to Brown University from outside the U.S., please contact: Connie DiPanfilo Office of International Advancement constance_dipanfilo@brown.edu Questions regarding your specific tax situation should be directed to your tax advisor. If you are a U.S. taxpayer and prefer to receive a U.S. tax receipt, please use our secure online gift form. Related Links Learn more about country-specific tax benefits of making a gift to Brown University. Giving from Outside the U.S. – Canada Giving from Outside the US - Europe Giving from Outside the U.S. - Hong Kong Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Giving from Outside the U.S. – United Kingdom Open details for Giving from Outside the U.S. – United Kingdom Bookmark this Page