Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Employer You are here: Home1 / Career Services2 / Employer Employer WHAT IS AVAILABLE? Clemson Alumni Career Service connects employers throughout the world with Clemson graduates who are looking to begin a new career, seeking new employment or considering a career change. Employers can register to join Alumni Career Link, a recruitment platform that allows employers to engage, network and hire top-level graduates. Employers can also sign up to participate in alumni career fairs hosted by the Clemson Alumni Association and other universitites across the United States. Post a Job To post a job, please register as an employer under Clemson Alumni Career Services. If you’ve used Career Link before, you can access it again here. If not, you’ll need to register with Alumni Career Services. Post a Job Hire Clemson Alumni To connect with Clemson Alumni seeking a job, please log into Clemson Alumni Career Link. If you’ve used Career Link before, you can access it again here. If not, you’ll need to register with Alumni Career Services. Clemson Alumni Career Services provides opportunities for Clemson alumni who have been out of school for one year or more. Hire Clemson Alumni Participate in an Alumni Career Fair If you are interested in participating in a Clemson Alumni Career Fair within the United States, click the link to connect with our Director of Alumni Career Services. Participate in Alumni Career Fairs Hire Students If you are interested in connecting with current Clemson students, click the link to connect with Clemson’s Center for Career and Professional Development. Hire Current Clemson Students Start an Internship Program Work with the Clemson University Office of Career and Professional Development to hire current Clemson students for your internship opportunities. Internships provide a great opportunity for students to gain work experience and make connections with professionals in their field prior to graduating. Employers are discovering that bringing an intern into your organization can be a very rewarding experience and many companies are beginning to recognize the value of adding an intern program to their human resources pool. The Career Center aims to facilitate internships for students with industry professionals to provide real-world experience and on-the-job training. We look forward to working with both the employer and the student to develop a meaningful and mutually beneficial internship opportunity. Start an Internship Program Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Faculty Member Employer Job Listings Tools and Opportunities Mentorship Career Fairs – Employer Registration Career Fairs – Job Seeker Registration Registration Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info