Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu News & Stories Read, watch, listen: The power of the Brown experience spans generations, fields, communities, and perspectives. Sub Navigation In This Section Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Find more News & Stories Brown Alumni & Friends on Social Media Brown Alumni Magazine News from Brown News & Stories Read, watch, listen: The power of the Brown experience spans generations, fields, communities, and perspectives. On campus and beyond the gates, Brunonians are making a difference. From the value of volunteering to the impact of giving, Brunonians have a great story to tell about why they stay engaged with Brown and how they want to change the world. Featured Stories May 25, 2022 Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 May 24, 2022 Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. May 18, 2022 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. April 30, 2022 News from Brown Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future Members of the Warren Alpert Medical School community, including graduates from classes ranging from 1972 to 2022, gathered to commemorate the history and look to the future of Rhode Island’s first and only medical school. April 28, 2022 Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President & Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 By helping educators access crucial information resources, Hintermeister taps into passions she discovered as a Brown undergrad: sharing knowledge and giving back. April 14, 2022 Alumni & Friends 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day Want to help make this Brunonians Pay It Forward Day our biggest yet? Here’s how you can get involved and spread the word about this giving day. More Stories Alumni Stories Across the globe, Brown alumni are making extraordinary things happen every day. Visit Page Open details for Alumni Stories Giving Stories The impact of philanthropy to Brown is transforming lives on College Hill and beyond. Visit Page Open details for Giving Stories Campus News & Stories Get the latest updates on what's happening at Brown University. Visit Page Open details for Campus News &amp; Stories More Brown News & Stories Brown Alumni Magazine News from Brown Brown U. Social Media Directory Medicine@Brown Magazine Brown School of Public Health News Brown School of Engineering News Webcasts, Podcasts, and Captured Virtual Events Like. Share. Learn. Stay up to date on the latest Brown happenings and accomplishments of fellow Brunonians, and connect with like-minded alumni—all from the comfort of your couch. Find Brown Alumni & Friends on Social Media Find more News & Stories Brown Alumni & Friends on Social Media Brown Alumni Magazine News from Brown Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search News & Stories Open details for News & Stories Bookmark this Page