Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu BrownConnect Alumni to Alumni Networking Find career insights and connections through your Brown alumni network. Breadcrumb Home Benefits Career Tools & Resources Sub Navigation In This Section Alumni to Alumni Networking Career Resources FAQ Your Brown network is 63,000 strong! Brown aspires to be a lifelong partner for alumni networking and career development. Through BrownConnect, your dream job may be just a few alumni contacts away. What is BrownConnect? BrownConnect was originally created in 2014 to support career exploration for Brown students. The initiative included two major components: A concerted effort to create more internships, research opportunities, and funding for Brown students, helping them to make informed career choices after graduation. The BrownConnect digital platform, which gave students the ability to search a network of more than 63,000 alumni contacts for career research and to find connections based on work experience, industry, location, and specific interests. Building on the tremendous success of the program, BrownConnect expanded in 2018 to support alumni-to-alumni networking as well—while keeping all the current BrownConnect services for students going strong. With an intuitive search interface and access to more than 63,000 Brown alumni, the website is a tremendous resource for career exploration and networking. Go to BrownConnect When I first graduated, I initiated tons and tons of conversations through the alumni network, which has always kept me close to the Brown community. They have been super helpful in giving me advice and sometimes even job offers or job career advice that I’ve been able to take with me. Hadley Hornig ’11 Frequently Asked Questions How do I log in? Already have a Brown Account? Login to BrownConnect now. Don't yet have a Brown Account? Create yours now online or by phone: +1 (401) 863-9662. Please note that after you complete your account setup, there's a 24-hour period before you can log into your profile. Having difficulty? Forgot username or password? Call +1 (401) 863-9662 or email alumni_help@brown.edu. During the academic year, the helpline is open on Sunday through Thursday evenings; this page will always have the current schedule. How does alumni-to-alumni networking in BrownConnect work? BrownConnect includes professional information from over 50,000 Brown alumni, providing a robust pool of potential alumni career contacts. Based on work-related profile information that alumni like you have shared with Brown, you can search for possible contacts, reach out for information and advice from fellow Brunonians in your industry, and develop new professional relationships. Like the student-to-alumni version of BrownConnect, this program works on the “opt out” model. Anyone who does not wish to be contacted may opt out at any time. (See below.) How does Brown safeguard the privacy of my information? In several ways: Access to BrownConnect is granted only to students, alumni, and authorized staff who support the program. A secure password is required to access the site. Your email address is not visible in BrownConnect. When alumni reach out to you around career topics, they do so through the site. Through settings in your alumni profile, you can decide what is—and is not—visible in your Alumni Directory listing. Those same profile settings are honored in BrownConnect. What’s the difference between BrownConnect and the Alumni Directory? BrownConnect is specifically designed for career and professional networking. Alumni who opt out of alumni-to-alumni networking will not appear in BrownConnect searches by alumni. Likewise, alums who opt out of student-alumni networking will not appear in searches by students. The Alumni Directory, on the other hand, is the most complete Brown resource for finding classmates and friends. Both resources have one thing in common: Terms of use require that information from either platform cannot be used to solicit business, nor can it be used for any political, charitable, or commercial purpose. Any such use is grounds for immediate termination of access both to the Directory and to BrownConnect. What benefits and features does this career networking platform offer? The most important benefit of BrownConnect is the sheer number of alumni who are accessible through the platform. In addition: You can search by location, industry, class year, and stage in career You can also search by Brown-specific information such as concentrations, extracurriculars, sports, and networking interests Your message reaches the alum’s preferred email address You can “favorite” alums you wish to contact How do I participate in the alumni-to-alumni networking platform? You are automatically included in this alumni-to-alumni community (unless you opt out). But to take full advantage of alumni-to-alumni networking, we recommend that you log into your profile’s professional section and make sure that your job title, employer, and networking interests are up to date. You also have the opportunity to add a brief work history and professional profile. How do I update my profile? If you have already set up your Brown account, just log in to your profile’s professional section and add or update your information and your preferences as needed. If you’ve forgotten your username or password, call Brown’s help desk at +1 (401) 863-4357. Adding more information to your profile helps you stay open to new connections relevant to your career. See tips doc (PDF). Why can’t I edit the employer field in my Brunonia profile? Brown makes company/organization searching easier by standardizing company names. Just pick the best button to make your edit: Use the “ADD NEW” button if your new job is at a new employer. Use the “EDIT” button if you’re with the same organization, but have a new role. What if I would prefer not to participate in alumni-to-alumni networking at this time? You can opt out by unsubscribing from any BrownConnect networking email. Log into the professional section of your profile and change your preferences regarding both alumni-to-alumni and student-to-alumni networking. Your change will take effect within 1-2 business days. I have already enjoyed interacting with students through BrownConnect. Are there other ways to help students? Absolutely! We hope you continue to respond to emails, offer internships, and meet students at BrownConnect events. Thank you for helping students learn about careers. Here are a few other ways you can volunteer to help the Brown community through career advising and mentoring. Learn more about supporting BrownConnect. Who sponsors and oversees BrownConnect? This presidential initiative is sponsored by the Dean of the College Office and the Division of Advancement. Staff from both CareerLAB and Alumni Relations manage the program’s operations. The President's Advisory Council on Internships and a University Steering Committee provide further support and guidance. What if I have other questions about career resources or alumni-to-alumni networking? Try the Career Resources page or email arbrownconnect@brown.edu. University extends access to BrownConnect to all alumni The BrownConnect initiative and its signature digital platform have expanded student-to-alumni career connections in four years since launch, and alumni can now cultivate professional connections directly. Read the story Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search BrownConnect Alumni to Alumni Networking Open details for BrownConnect Alumni to Alumni Networking Bookmark this Page