Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Date February 10, 2022 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Marketing Maven Ivon Rodriguez ’00 EMBA’16 From broadcast media to museums to fintech, Ivon Rodriguez has carried the “think outside the box” approach from Brown into every industry she touches. Ivon Rodriguez ’00 EMBA’16 is hardly one to be pigeonholed. She’s made a career that blends both her love of business and creative media. It’s no surprise she found her way to Brown — twice. Rodriguez began her undergraduate career at Brown with concentrations in international relations and Hispanic studies. Her career post-graduation has included everything from director of communications at a television news station to vice president of marketing for HistoryMiami Museum. Then, her path brought her back to Brown where she received her executive masters in business administration (EMBA) degree from the School of Professional Studies. An active volunteer, Rodriguez has kept a strong connection to Brown and currently serves on both the Brown University Latino Alumni Council (BULAC) and the Brown Alumni Association (BAA) Board of Governors. Why do you do what you do? I love building and connecting. The work that I do (and have done for many years) has allowed me to work on entrepreneurial projects with passionate individuals. Brown teaches us to be more creative thinkers, and I wanted to make sure that I continued to think outside the box beyond Brown. Why Brown? Coming from a high school experience with a strict curriculum structure, I wanted the opportunity to explore electives and my passions through the Open Curriculum. The breadth of options at Brown was exhilarating to me, and I was eager to make new connections between my love of learning and the academic offerings I embarked upon. How has your Brown EMBA degree had an impact on your career? Going into my EMBA, I rarely thought about a career change away from media and entertainment. Interacting with peers in the program, learning about their careers through our in-class conversations, and engaging with business through a liberal arts sense made my curiosity flourish. It was during my program that I took a role with a cultural institution, and since then have also worked with higher ed institutions and tech companies. My EMBA and newfound friends opened my eyes to a whole new world of opportunity I knew I wanted to explore. “ The breadth of options at Brown was exhilarating to me, and I was eager to make new connections between my love of learning and the academic offerings I embarked upon. ” Ivon Rodriguez ’00 EMBA’16 What is one piece of advice you would give your younger self? Connect with others. Do not be afraid to be yourself. Be as bold as you know you can be and, in that boldness, hold true to yourself. Know that from each and every genuine connection you make, the learning is limitless. Each person is a universe. What is happening at Brown today that excites you? Brown continues to be at the forefront of creative thinking in education and I love what the institution is doing in the area of masters programs and professional studies. The programming that’s offered allows professionals to seek advanced learning at an institution that has always embraced diversity in thought. About Ivon: Ivon Rodriguez has been instrumental in the startup phase of numerous television stations including Telemundo Boston, Telemundo Hartford, Telemundo Providence, and the Caracol Television Miami station. While engaged in studies with the IE Brown Executive MBA, she served as the Vice President of Marketing for the private, non-profit Smithsonian affiliate, HistoryMiami Museum. She served as the Managing Director for IE University overseeing the growth of the institution and its programs in the Southern US and Caribbean. Until recently she served as the Chief Marketing Officer of The 360 Group, a marketing firm focused on entertainment and innovation. She currently serves as a Chief Marketing Officer in tech. A Miami native, Rodriguez now resides in Southlake, TX and is active in her community through leadership roles at various organizations. Online courses from the School of Professional Studies Get a jumpstart on meeting your career goals this year with online courses such as Leader as Coach and Powerful & Persuasive Communications, or our newest Certificate in Digital Health Innovation. Programs range from four to six weeks and are 100% virtual. Use code ALUM10 for 10% off. LEARN MORE Seeking lives of “usefulness and reputation” The Brown alumni community is full of trailblazers, problem solvers, critical thinkers, entrepreneurs, and people who defy all boxes. And their stories may inspire others. Nominate an alum to be profiled in this “5 Questions for a Brunonian” series by emailing brunonia@brown.edu today. Tags Alumni Featured Volunteers Related News Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center May 25, 2022 Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 Read Article Open details for Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Marketing Maven Ivon Rodriguez ’00 EMBA’16 Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Marketing Maven Ivon Rodriguez ’00 EMBA’16 Bookmark this Page