Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Brown Annual Fund Recognition Societies Celebrating our most loyal and dedicated Annual Fund donors. Breadcrumb Home Giving Donor Recognition Sub Navigation In This Section Brown Annual Fund Recognition Societies Brown Family Fellows Medical Annual Fund Donor Recognition Planned Giving Donor Recognition Sports Foundation Donor Recognition Brown University is grateful to benefit from the contributions of its committed and generous community. Each year, the Brown Annual Fund recognizes its philanthropic leaders with membership in the Carrie Tower Society and 1764 Society. Carrie Tower Society The Carrie Tower Society honors donors who step forward as philanthropic leaders for Brown through their Brown Annual Fund contributions. The generosity of Carrie Tower Society members allows the University financial flexibility and ability to respond to the most pressing needs. Just 11 percent of donors to the Brown Annual Fund are Carrie Tower Society members. But, collectively, they gave $41 million, making up 87 percent of all dollars given in FY21. The Carrie Tower Society recognizes Brown Annual Fund Leaders, who offer financial support at the highest levels, and Brown Annual Fund Partners, who play a significant role in sustaining excellence on College Hill. See below for young alumni giving levels. Carrie Tower Society Leaders Giving Levels Benefits of Membership All Carrie Tower Society Leaders receive: • a biannual digital newsletter of impact • personal thanks from Brown Annual Fund leadership and a Brown student • access to the Brown Annual Fund’s Hospitality Suite during Reunion Weekend • special recognition as a member of the Carrie Tower Society Deans’ Circle $10,000 – $24,999 All above recognition plus: • personal thanks from Brown staff and volunteers • special invitations to University events (including an annual virtual conversation with a University Dean) Provost’s Circle $25,000 – $49,999 All above recognition plus: • special invitation to an annual virtual conversation with Brown’s Provost Chancellor’s Circle $50,000 – $99,999 All above recognition plus: • special invitation to an annual virtual conversation with Brown’s Chancellor • recognition on the Brown Annual Fund Donor Wall in the Stephen Robert ’62 Campus Center President’s Circle $100,000+ All above recognition plus: • personal thanks from Brown’s President Carrie Tower Society Partners Giving Levels Benefits of Membership Cum Laude Partners $1,500 – $2,499 All Carrie Tower Society Partners receive: • a biannual digital newsletter of impact • personal thanks from Brown Annual Fund leadership and a Brown student • access to the Brown Annual Fund’s Hospitality Suite during Reunion Weekend • special recognition as a member of the Carrie Tower Society Magna Partners $2,500 – $4,999 Summa Partners $5,000 – $9,999 Carrie Tower Society: Young Alumni In recognition of the critical importance of young alumni philanthropic leadership, recent undergraduate alumni can be part of the Carrie Tower Society at alternative giving levels. Young alumni donors receive the same recognition and benefits commensurate with their giving level. Cum Laude Partners Deans' Circle Leaders current students $50 – $999 n/a 0-4 years out $250 – $999 $1,000 – $24,999 5-9 years out $500 – $2,499 $2,500 – $24,999 10-14 years out $1,000 – $2,499 $5,000 – $24,999 1764 Society The 1764 Society provides recognition to those donors who contribute to the University through the Brown Annual Fund each and every year. Members of the Society set a philanthropic example for the Brown community, while playing a vital role in ensuring that Brown continues to thrive and grow with each incoming class. Named for Brown's founding year, the 1764 Society celebrates these loyal members of our community in four categories: 3-4 Consecutive Fiscal Years of Participation Members are inducted into the Society upon reaching three consecutive fiscal years of giving. 5-9 Consecutive Fiscal Years of Participation Members receive a lapel pin commemorating this milestone. 10-24 Consecutive Fiscal Years of Participation Members are welcomed into the next level of the society upon reaching 10 consecutive years of giving. They will also receive a new lapel pin commemorating this milestone. 25+ Consecutive Fiscal Years of Participation Members receive special recognition upon reaching 25 consecutive years of giving. Once achieved, membership in the 1764 Society will continue until a fiscal year passes in which the member does not make a gift to the Brown Annual Fund. Former members can rejoin the 1764 Society after resuming their support of the Brown Annual Fund for three consecutive years. Determining Membership in the Annual Fund's Recognition Societies Brown Annual Fund recognition is based on the donor’s total contribution of gifts, pledge payments, and matching gifts received in a single fiscal year (July 1 through June 30). Unpaid pledges are not included. Gifts made to The Brown Fund, impact funds, the BUSF Athletics Annual Fund (including the Athletics Director’s Excellence Fund and annual funds for varsity athletics teams), the Brown Engineering Annual Fund, the Brown Medical Annual Fund, and the Brown School of Public Health Annual Fund are all recognized as gifts to the Brown Annual Fund. Gifts designated to areas of the University other than the Brown Annual Fund are appreciated, however, they are not considered when determining membership in our Annual Fund recognition societies. For more information about our recognition societies, contact brown-fund@brown.edu or call +1 (401) 863-3300. “ My gifts to the Brown Annual Fund represent an important investment in our future. As a law school professor and lawyer, I appreciate the informed, reasoned responses to current challenges that a Brown education fosters. ” Joan M. Heminway ’83 Carrie Tower Society Leader Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown Annual Fund Recognition Societies Open details for Brown Annual Fund Recognition Societies Bookmark this Page