Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Alumni Stories Across the globe, Brown alumni are making extraordinary things happen every day. Breadcrumb Home News & Stories Sub Navigation In This Section Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Our alumni are bound by their shared connection to the University. But, the paths they took while on College Hill and the journeys they've made since are all beautifully distinct. From addressing societal issues to enriching their local communities to pursuing their dreams, discover how Brunonians are making their mark. May 24, 2022 Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. May 18, 2022 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. April 30, 2022 News from Brown Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future Members of the Warren Alpert Medical School community, including graduates from classes ranging from 1972 to 2022, gathered to commemorate the history and look to the future of Rhode Island’s first and only medical school. April 28, 2022 Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President & Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 By helping educators access crucial information resources, Hintermeister taps into passions she discovered as a Brown undergrad: sharing knowledge and giving back. April 11, 2022 Alumni & Friends Examining the Evolution of Women at Brown A unique online networking opportunity and discussion brought together Brunonians from around the world for an evening of insight and connection. March 29, 2022 Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Film Exec Nina Jacobson ’87, P’23 A lifelong commitment to creative storytelling—and a desire for equal representation in the film industry—has shaped the successful Hollywood career of this former semiotics concentrator. March 21, 2022 Alumni & Friends Anticipation, joy, relief. Match Day is in the books! Members of Brown’s MD Class of 2022 celebrated the start of the next phase of their medical careers as they discovered where they have been matched for residencies. March 18, 2022 Alumni & Friends 10 alumnae bring Brown women’s history to life Tap into the rich history of women at Brown through these fascinating excerpts selected from the Pembroke Center’s Oral History Project. March 8, 2022 News from Brown Class of 2009 graduate Zack Langway to lead alumni relations at Brown With professional accomplishments in community building and more than a decade of volunteer leadership with Brown, Langway will return to College Hill to lead efforts to cultivate and sustain strong alumni relationships. March 4, 2022 Alumni & Friends Jennifer Gomez ’08: Founder and Tech Entrepreneur In this episode of the Women’s Voices Amplified podcast, Gomez discusses her unintentional path to leadership, being the only woman of color in certain spaces, trusting herself fully, and the importance of community. February 11, 2022 Alumni & Friends 9 Brown love stories that will warm your heart Celebrate true love this Valentine’s Day with sweet stories of Brunonians finding their “one and only” on College Hill. February 10, 2022 Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Marketing Maven Ivon Rodriguez ’00 EMBA’16 From broadcast media to museums to fintech, Ivon Rodriguez has carried the “think outside the box” approach from Brown into every industry she touches. View all alumni stories More Alumni Stories Women's Voices Amplified podcast // features incredible women from all corners of the Brunonia ecosystem sharing their insights on the big questions of work, life, and living in today’s world. Pembroke Center Oral History Project // digitized interviews, transcripts, biographies and photographs of Brown alumnae, faculty, and staff from as far back as 1907. Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Alumni Stories Open details for Alumni Stories Bookmark this Page