Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month Pride Month UC Alumni Association » Donate » Digital Philanthropy Center Set Navigation title in component Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Digital Philanthropy Center Who We Are At the Digital Philanthropy Center, student fundraisers call, text and email alumni, parents, faculty, staff and friends each year. Our students will share the latest happenings on campus, gather updates from you, and offer you the opportunity to give back to the UC cause you are most passionate about. Our student fundraisers learn the real value of giving back to their alma mater, receive professional development, and support the pursuit of excellence that characterizes the University of Cincinnati. Our call center has served the UC community with part-time fundraising jobs and philanthropic education since the 1980s! Meet the student fundraisers. What We Do As part of the Annual Giving team, students are responsible for fundraising over $300,000 in gifts each year for scholarships, programs, research, athletics, the Alumni Association, and each of our colleges. Every year, a staff of 40 students reaches out to over 25,000 alumni, parents, faculty, staff and friends to keep them connected with UC. In addition, the student fundraisers call current donors to thank them for gifts, invite alumni to events and send reminders about important days on campus. Make a gift How To Pay A Pledge Thank you for your pledge to the University of Cincinnati. To make your payment online, please visit the giving form. If you would like to pay by check, please use the envelope you received in the mail with your pledge reminder. What Appears on Caller ID Depending on the phone carrier, a variety of things could appear when we call – U of Cincinnati and in some cases Unknown or Spam Risk. Here’s a list of numbers connected with the Digital Philanthropy Center: Frequently Asked Questions right arrow down arrow Q: Where does the money go? A: You choose! Your gift is used to support scholarships, programs, research, athletics, the Alumni Association, or a specific college. Q: Are the callers really students at the University of Cincinnati? A: Yes. We employ over 50 students throughout the year, representing a variety of majors and from many different cities, states and countries. Q: When do we call? A: Our normal hours of operation are Monday-Thursday 6-9 p.m. and Sunday 2-9 p.m. Eastern Time. Q: Is my gift tax-deductible? A: Yes – 100% tax-deductible. Once we receive your gift, you will receive a receipt verifying that your gift has been allocated to the designation you have specified. Q: May I use a credit card? A: Yes. We encourage you to make your gift by using your VISA, MasterCard, American Express or Discover card when on the phone with a student caller. This is a secure way to make sure your gift benefits UC students right away. Your credit card gift helps us save postage and paper costs. Q: May I choose where I want my gift to go? A: Yes. While unrestricted funds are always needed to support a wide variety of efforts at UC, many alumni and friends choose to designate a gift to a scholarship, department, program, athletics program or other area they are passionate about. Q: May I call you back? A: Yes. Our student callers can receive inbound calls. Simply call back the number that appeared on your caller ID. If the student caller is not available, you may leave a message. You may also call us at the Digital Philanthropy center’s general number – 513-556-3673. Q: Can I request a call? A: Yes. You can email the Digital Philanthropy Center to request that a student call you. Q: Will my company match my gift? A: Many employers sponsor matching gift programs and will match any charitable contributions made by their employees to the University of Cincinnati. This can double or even triple your gift to UC. Some companies match gifts by retirees and/or spouses, so don’t forget to check your spouse’s employer as well! Visit our matching gift page or contact your human resources department for details. Q: How do I make a gift over the phone? A: Simply tell the student how much you would like to pledge and then give the student your credit card information. You will receive a letter and receipt for tax purposes. If you would rather pay by check or online, we will send you a pledge reminder for the amount specified over the phone. An envelope will be provided for you to return your gift. It’s that simple. Want to Work at UC’s Digital Philanthropy Center? Are you a current student at the University of Cincinnati and in need of a part-time job? Both undergraduate and graduate students are welcome to apply. We offer competitive pay, bonuses, incentives and semester raises. You will have great conversations with alumni, parents, faculty, staff and friends while raising money for UC. Click here to apply to be a Digital Philanthropy Center associate. For any additional questions, please contact the Digital Philanthropy Center at 513-556-3673. Meet Our Fundraising Interns In addition to our Digital Philanthropy Center student fundraisers, we also have a Fundraising Intern program. Our interns build relationships with our generous donors and alumni with the goal of deepening their connection to UC. Cader is a Marketing and International Business Studies major at UC. He brings a strong work ethic, a willingness to learn, and an eagerness to work collaboratively with others and start building relationships. Additionally, he has prior rapport building experience working as a sales representative for New USA Funding. Nikhita is a Health Science major with a deep interest in fundraising! Nikhita has been interested in fundraising for quite some time, each year in Highschool she worked in various fundraising roles. She is confident in her stewardship and problem-solving skills and looks forward to her overall professional development. Abbie is a Communications major is also a member of UC’s Dance Team who often perform at community events and work at local fundraisers around the city of Cincinnati. Fundraising has always been an area of interest for her, she sees this opportunity as her chance to develop the necessary skills for a career in fundraising. Emily Kelly, CECH '19 Digital Philanthropy Center Manager 513-556-3763 kelly2el@foundation.uc.edu University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top