Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Date February 11, 2022 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email 9 Brown love stories that will warm your heart Celebrate true love this Valentine’s Day with sweet stories of Brunonians finding their “one and only” on College Hill. Brown holds a special place in our hearts. For those who found their special someone on College Hill, that place is doubly special. In celebration of Valentine’s Day, we present to you some of our favorite—and dare we say, downright adorable—stories of Brunonians finding love at Brown. May I have this dance? Karin Paredes ’01 and Joseph Wright ’01 “We met when we were bright-eyed sophomores living at North Caswell. We would spend hours chatting in the kitchen about anything and everything. Karin was on the ballroom team and Mezcla and mesmerized me when we would dance together. We became friends first and then junior year I told her how I felt via handwritten letters while she was studying abroad in Paris. I didn’t realize it at the time, but it was all very romantic. However, she was from New York and I from California so we thought it didn't make sense to pursue something long distance and preferred to remain friends. Two years after graduation we went for it and never looked back. Nineteen years and two children later, we’re still just two college kids making fun of each other and laughing at our inside jokes like we would at Brown. In the summertime, we drag our kids back to campus, reminisce, and split a Meeting Street cookie on the Main Green. Happy Valentine's Day, everyone! Ever True.” —written by Joseph Wright ’01 A pin and a promise Brooke Mitchell ’59, P’88, P’90 and Michael Mitchell ’59, P’88, P’90 “I met Mike at the end of our first week of our first year at a Pembroke/Brown dance in 1955. Later, we were ‘pinned’ when he gave me his fraternity pin to wear over my heart. Later married (in 1961). Three daughters, two chose Brown. No longer married but still a family. Ever True.” —written by Brooke Mitchell ’59, P’88, P’90 Finally finding “home” Jini Chatterjee ’10 and James Witkin ’10 “James and I both graduated from Brown in 2010, but our backgrounds were worlds apart. James grew up in suburban Delaware, had barely traveled overseas before college, and went to Brown to pursue his passion for math and economics. I was raised in cities all over the world and went to Brown precisely so I didn't have to do math anymore. We didn't interact much at college (James's sole memory of me is closing the door on him at a dorm party) but ended up living just a few streets apart in New York after college. When I met James again, I was struck by his warmth, humility, and intellectual curiosity. Because of my nomadic upbringing, I had always felt like an outsider, but with James, I was home. Despite our wildly different backgrounds, we discovered our mutual love for science fiction, outdoor adventures, and my cat, Ramona. As of this Valentine's Day, we've been together for more than a decade! We're still very different people with sometimes conflicting worldviews, but we've learned to grow from and teach one another. Every day ends up being an adventure, and I'm grateful to Brown for bringing us together despite the odds!” —written by Jini Chatterjee ’10 From fruit flies to “forever” David Estin ’87, P’22 and Mindy E. Wiser-Estin ’87, P’22 “Mindy Wiser and I were paired as TAs for Dr. Hagy’s Bio 47 Genetics course senior year. We had to meet in Arnold Labs at midnight to separate virgin fruit flies and prepare them for mating experiments. The rest is history. Thirty-five years later, we have just celebrated our 30th wedding anniversary and are excited to see our son graduate in May at our 35th Reunion.” —written by David Estin ’87, P’22 Still the one Leslie Row ’88 and Gordon Row ’85 “The first time I met my husband, we were with different dates at the senior ball at the Rosecliff mansion in 1986. The second time I met my husband was in October 1987 when I was living on Lloyd Avenue and he came to visit my housemate. I asked him, ‘Who are YOU?’ We knew within a short time of dating the next spring that we were each other’s ‘one.’ This May we will celebrate 30 years of married life, and I am happy to say he’s still the one!” —written by Leslie Row ’88 Making headlines Toby London ’65 and David London ’64 “It was 1961 when sophomore Brown Daily Herald (BDH) news director David met Pembroke freshman BDH reporter, Toby. It was love at first sight! We were married two weeks after Toby’s 1965 graduation. Two careers, two great kids, two wonderful granddaughters, and two retirements later, we are living back in Providence near the campus where we met for the very first time. 2022 will be our 60th year as each other’s Valentines!” —written by Toby London ’64 Friends for life Elizabeth Schiff ’81 and Marianne Chelovich Quoyeser ’83, P’15 “I know this is not what you meant by 'love story,' but I did meet a special someone when I was at Brown. It was September 1979, and we were both playing on the volleyball team. I was a junior and she was just a dopey freshman. The following September, we bumped into each other walking across campus and the emotional connection was instantaneous and undeniable. That day, my relationship started with my ‘special someone,’ and Marianne Chelovich Quoyeser became my best friend. Here we are over 40 years later and, although we haven’t lived in the same city since 1981, the year I graduated from Brown, we are still best friends.” —written by Elizabeth Schiff ’81 ADOCH with the assist Allison Bernstein ’09 and Andrew Garin ’09 “Andy and I met on the plane to A Day on College Hill (ADOCH) in 2005. Last summer, we took our infant daughter by our freshman Pembroke dorms! The admissions officer who covered both our high schools back in the day probably gets some credit.” —written by Allison Bernstein ’09 Will the real Joyce please stand up? Katrina Carlson ’86, P'18, P'20 and Kenneth Carlson '86, P'18, P'20 “Met my hubby at Brown! He was a senior and I was a sophomore. He had been wanting to meet me, so when he saw some lost keys glimmering in the grass and I was walking out of Sayles Hall, he grabbed the keys, ran up behind me, and asked if they were mine. The key chain said ‘Joyce’ on it so he said ‘Excuse me, are you Joyce?’ We engraved that on keychains as favors at our wedding. We’ve been happily married for over 30 years with three children. Thanks, Brown!” —written by Katrina Carlson ’86, P’18, P’20 Related Links Alumni Event Calendar Alumni Communities Brown Traditions: Snowy days and Ratty trays Brown Traditions: Chicken Finger Fridays Brown Traditions: Loui's 5am challenge Brown Traditions: Van Wickle Gates Brown Traditions: Josiah S. Carberry Tags Alumni Brunonia Featured Related News Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center May 25, 2022 Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 Read Article Open details for Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search 9 Brown love stories that will warm your heart Open details for 9 Brown love stories that will warm your heart Bookmark this Page