Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month UC Alumni Association » About Us » FAQ Set Navigation title in component Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Ask the UC Alumni Association Frequently Asked Questions What is the UC Alumni Association and what does it do? right arrow down arrow The UC Alumni Association (UCAA) helps alumni become more connected with each other with their university with services and opportunities that enhance their UC alumni experience What is the UC Alumni Association's definition of "alumni"? right arrow down arrow "Alumni" are anyone who has attended the university for at least one semester. A degree is not required. Alumni? Alumnus? Alumna? Which is correct? right arrow down arrow “Alumni” are anyone who has attended the university for at least one semester. A degree is not required. “Alumnus” refers to a male, or a generic person where gender isn’t known or relevant. “Alumna” refers to a female. “Alumni” is the plural for males or any generic group. “Alumnae” is the plural for females only. Is there a fee to join the UC Alumni Association? right arrow down arrow The Alumni Association isn’t technically a membership organization, so you don’t have to “join.” UC alumni are part of the UC Alumni Association family and can access a number of programs and services with no fee involved. Those who give $50 or more annually to the UCAA become part of the Loyal Bearcat Society; those who have given $2,500 or more to the UCAA cumulatively over their lifetimes become part of the William Howard Taft Society. Life members of the association are automatically members of the William Howard Taft and Loyal Bearcat societies. Donors who belong to these societies enjoy an enhanced set of benefits. What is the difference between the UC Alumni Association and alumni networks for certain groups, such as my college, or Honors grads, or young alumni, or alumni who live the same city as me? right arrow down arrow The UC Alumni Association is the overarching organization for all UC alumni. It works in collaboration with other alumni groups to enhance everyone’s alumni experience. Some alumni feel their strongest affinity to UC comes through certain groups with which they were affiliated as students and/or alumni, while others feel primarily connected with the university as a whole. Either way, they benefit from supporting and being involved through the UC Alumni Association as the central point for all of UC’s alumni relations efforts. Is the UC Alumni Association involved in fundraising? right arrow down arrow The UC Foundation is charged with the specific, critical role of cultivating financial gifts to the university from alumni, friends, corporations and other donors. On the large scale, it secures the private funding that enables UC to keep doing great things, especially given declining levels of support from the State of Ohio. The UC Alumni Association’s role is to encourage and facilitate engagement by alumni — with each other and their university — in whatever ways are most meaningful to them. That can be through attending events, participating in networks, volunteering, contributing financially, etc. Yet, the UC Alumni Association needs dedicated private funding to sustain and enhance its important work. Therefore, a philanthropic program to support UCAA’s strategic initiatives relies upon ongoing support through annual and major gifts. What is the best way for UC alumni to network with each other? right arrow down arrow Many alumni say the best way to network is to simply be involved — attend events, volunteer, take part in activities on campus or in the community, participate in the UC regional alumni network in their area, etc. Leveraging online opportunities is another great way to network, and the UC Alumni Association recommends using the social media channels Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram and Twitter, which can raise the level of connectedness between alumni for all sorts of reasons and objectives. If I don't live in the Cincinnati area, how do I find out if there are other UC alumni living in my area? right arrow down arrow The UC Alumni Association coordinates more than 30 alumni networks nationally. You’re encouraged to contact your network leader(s) to learn what UC alumni are doing in your area and get involved. How can the UC Alumni Association help me with career development, job search and professional networking? right arrow down arrow The UC Alumni Association coordinates a growing suite of services and resources dedicated to helping alumni with their career management and professional development. Further, one of the greatest uses for UCAA’s LinkedIn community is a professional networking and career development site. Many job opportunities are posted there, and because most people find new opportunities through their personal and professional contacts, connections made through UCAA’s social media channels often lead to successful transitions. Of course, given the interactive nature of our UC alumni family, simply being actively engaged can easily lead to career-related opportunities. What programs and discounts are available through the UC Alumni Association, and how do I learn if I qualify? right arrow down arrow The UC Alumni Association partners with a variety of on- and off-campus organizations for special deals and discounts. Contact the individual providers for specific information. How do I contact fellow alumni, or submit updates about alumni successes and/or professional recognition? right arrow down arrow The best alternative for sharing good news is via online networking tools such as the UCAA’s Facebook and LinkedIn sites. Otherwise, the UC Alumni Association’s available communications channels operate at the all-university level and aren’t conducive to announcements about individuals, so an option may be to contact your college or student/alumni constituent group and inquire about their communications opportunities. Where can I find a calendar of events at UC, or UCAA events? right arrow down arrow There is an online calendar of events accessible directly from the UC home page and a list of Alumni Association events on the UCAA’s website. How do I update my contact information in the university’s records? right arrow down arrow Send any updates to alumni.association@uc.edu. Or complete the online form to change your contact information. How do I report the death of an alumnus? right arrow down arrow E-mail the news to alumni.association@uc.edu or mail it to UC Foundation, P.O. Box 19970, Cincinnati, Ohio 45219-0970. How do I get a copy of my transcript, or have my degree verified? right arrow down arrow Receive a copy of your transcript and find out about enrollment and degree verification. I had signed up for “Email Forwarding” a number of years ago. Is that still valid? right arrow down arrow The UC Alumni Email Forwarding platform offered previously is no longer available, yet all accounts created at that time will continue to function and be serviced as necessary. If you have an alumni.uc.edu email address that forwards to a “permanent personal email” account, and that email address has changed, please communicate that change to UC by sending a request to HelpDesk@uc.edu. Supply your alumni.uc.edu email address and the new email address to which your email should be forwarded. How would I change the email account to which my UC Alumni-branded email address goes? right arrow down arrow The UC Alumni Email Forwarding platform offered previously is no longer available, yet all accounts created at that time will continue to function and be serviced as necessary. If you have an alumni.uc.edu email address that forwards to a “permanent personal email” account, and that email address has changed, please communicate that change to UC by sending a request to HelpDesk@uc.edu. Supply your alumni.uc.edu email address and the new email address to which your email should be forwarded. What scholarship opportunities are available for members of my family? right arrow down arrow There are many opportunities for scholarships and other forms of financial aid available to incoming and current UC students overall. In addition, legacy scholarships are available through the UC Alumni Association to outstanding students who are children or grandchildren of UC alumni. And each year, scholarships through UCAA’s regional alumni networks help students who live in areas with a concentration of UC alumni. How do I get tickets to athletics events? right arrow down arrow Visit the UC Athletics site for information and ticket-ordering procedures. What are my options for parking when visiting campus? right arrow down arrow Check out more information about parking on campus. How do I take an online tour of UC’s campus? right arrow down arrow Experience UC’s changing campus. Where can I find UC merchandise for purchase? right arrow down arrow A variety of merchandise is available through UC Bookstores, as well as other retailers throughout Greater Cincinnati and around the country. Where can I find UC Alumni merchandise for purchase? right arrow down arrow Exclusive UC Alumni merchandise is available for purchase through our online UC Alumni Team Store. A portion of proceeds from each purchase goes toward helping students through the Darlene H. Carter UCAA Scholarship Fund. Shop the UC Alumni Team Store. Find out more about the Darlene H. Carter UCAA Scholarship Fund. Can I come to campus and use the library? right arrow down arrow UC Alumni Association Loyal Bearcat Society and William Howard Taft Society donors enjoy free borrowing privileges. Learn more about UC Libraries and the study/research opportunities available to alumni. University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top