Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month UC Alumni Association » Events » Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Set Navigation title in component Event Calendar GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Thank you to everyone who joined us for the 2022 Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration — an evening of Bearcat spirit and connecting with your alma mater and fellow UC alumni. It was great to be back in-person for this annual event! A special thank you to Chicagoans for Cincy! Co-Chairs Savannah Bell, Bus '12, and Bruce Hopple, Bus '75, Law '80, and committee for planning an incredible evening. VIEW PHOTOS Interested in helping to plan next year's Celebration? Contact Jacki Adkins, UC Alumni Chicago Network Leader for more information. Support the Scholarship Chicagoans for Cincy! supports scholarships that help Chicago’s best and brightest students receive a world-class education at our alma mater, one of the nation’s top urban research universities. Since establishing an endowed scholarship fund in 2016, Chicagoans for Cincy! has raised well over $100,000 to provide an annual scholarship award for incoming freshmen from the Chicago area, renewable for up to 8 semesters pending fund availability and student eligibility. Still want to support Chicagoans for Cincy!? Donate directly to the Chicagoans for Cincy! Alumni Scholarship Fund. GIVE Thank you to our 2022 sponsors: Bob and Rose Fealy Lawrence and Charlotte Damron Eva and Lynn Maddox Tom and Linda Behringer Kingsley Law Firm LLC The Connell Group Bruce Hopple and Avison Young Neal Novak, Novak Law Offices Bradley Rabal Alumni Awards Chicagoland Bearcats look forward to recognizing and celebrating the many contributions and overall excellence of UC alumni at the annual Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration. Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration and Chicago Alumni Network volunteers review award nominee materials and select the award winners. Honorees are notified in advance of the annual celebration, where they will be recognized. UC colleges, institutional partners, alumni, past award-winners, Bearcat family, and friends are all encouraged to nominate a great Chicago Bearcat. Nominations for the 2023 Celebration are open! NOMINATE 2022 Award Recipients Distinguished Service Award - Neal Novak, A&S ’73, Law ’77 right arrow down arrow This award is given to a UC alumnus who has faithfully rendered outstanding service to the university. It recognizes outstanding volunteer contributions by UC Chicago alumni and shows appreciation to those who serve without expectation of personal reward. From Neal’s nomination: “As a student, he was directly influenced by Warren Bennis, UC’s president from 1970 to 1977. He worked for Warren’s family and saw firsthand- what a global leader should be. Warren really had a tremendous impact on his life and career. Neal is extremely passionate about UC. He has an undergraduate degree from A&S and a Law degree. He owes a lot of his success to Warren and has been an advocate for developing the Warren Bennis Leadership Institute at UC. He provided a lead gift to start the student-led Warren Bennis Leadership Experience in 2018 and has been a mentor to Jack Fitzgerald ’17, ’20.” Outstanding Achievement Award - Lawrence Damron, Bus ’68 right arrow down arrow This award is given to a UC alumnus on the basis of notable achievement in his or her field. It differs from the Distinguished Service Award in that it is not restricted to service to the university. From Larry’s nomination: “Larry is a retired healthcare finance executive. He worked as the Senior Vice President and CFO for Aksys, Ltd., a provider of hemodialysis products and services for patients in renal failure. He spent 17 years with Fortune 500 healthcare company Baxter International as a VP/Controller and Corporate Treasurer. Larry also served as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy in the Vietnam War.” Rising Star Award - Kathleen Hurley, CAHS ’14 right arrow down arrow This award is given to a young or newly-involved alumnus of UC on the basis of professional achievement in his or her field of endeavor, and continued service and involvement with the university and community. From Kathleen's nomination: “UC graduates scores of outstanding, ambitious, and bright students every year who go on to do amazing things and I have had the good fortune to know and be inspired by a great number of them. But what makes Kathleen Hurley special among this talented company is her commitment to the service of others. The pandemic changed a lot of things about our society and many among us have just been holding on, hoping for the best. But the silver lining of any difficult situation is that it brings out the best of the truly great among us. Kathleen stepped up in those dark times, forging a path for her school and students in the uncertainty of the early days of the pandemic, maximizing her student’s opportunities, and leading the way forward, while also going on to graduate with her Master’s in Education and passing the principal licensure exams.” Past Award Winners right arrow down arrow Outstanding Achievement Award Eva Maddox Alan Channing Denny Reigle Wally Becky Brent Freese Susan King Tom Behringer Michael Schroeck Donald Nally Lawrence Damron Distinguished Service Award Denny DeMoss David Watkins Chris and Spes Mekus Yetta Starr Matt Wagner Patty Klingbiel Sean Connell Paul Kingsley Neal Novak Rising Star Award Paul Green Cindy Chiang Andrew Eloff John Lutz Ann Taylor Adjoa Anyane-Yeboa Kathleen Hurley About Chicagoans for Cincy! is a group of dedicated UC alumni living in the Chicago area. We encourage local students to attend UC, we promote Chicago as an extraordinary job destination for all UC graduates, and we hold the premier UC alumni event outside of Cincinnati each year. If you haven’t already, join the Chicago Alumni Network Facebook Group and LinkedIn Group to keep in the loop with Chicagoland Bearcats. UCAA in-person activities will be provided under CDC guidelines and local COVID-19 restrictions, with the well-being of the UC alumni family remaining the top priority. Each experience will follow the venue's established restrictions and guidelines and we ask all event participants to follow the venue's posted recommendations. View UC’s current COVID-19 updates. Get Involved Interested in getting involved with the Chicagoans for Cincy! Committee? Contact Chicago Alumni Network Leader Jacki Adkins. University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top