Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Harvard College Fund Annual Giving Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers 1636 Loyalty Society Associates Giving Harvard Yard Society John Harvard Society Senior Class Committee Your Gift Makes a Difference Harvard relies on the generosity of alumni and friends to support our innovative teaching and research. More than 30,000 College alumni give to the University each year, joined by College parents and alumni from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. By supporting pioneering initiatives like edX or the important work of House Renewal and the transformative undergraduate experience, our incredible community of donors ensures that Harvard can advance its leadership across all areas of human and scientific discovery. We hope you will join us by making a contribution today. Donors who give every year will be recognized as 1636 Loyalty Society Members, and those who make annual leadership gifts of $1,000 or more will be recognized as Associates in the Harvard College Fund's Annual Report of Giving. Reunion gifts are an essential component of the Harvard College Fund, and multi-year pledge payments count toward annual recognition and giving society membership. Donors interested in planned gifts or bequests can contact us for more information. Thank you for your support of the Harvard community. Your contributions are essential to our future. 1636 Loyalty Society The 1636 Loyalty Society recognizes dedicated donors who give to the Harvard College Fund every year. Membership in the 1636 Loyalty Society begins with a second consecutive annual gift and continues with ongoing annual support. These gifts can be outright gifts, pledge payments, or multiyear pledges. We invite you to join this loyal community and be recognized for your commitment to Harvard. Associates Giving Associates Giving is the cornerstone of the Harvard College Fund’s annual giving efforts. Donors provide support for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS) and give Claudine Gay, Edgerley Family Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, the flexible leadership funds necessary to explore groundbreaking endeavors like Harvard’s Financial Aid Initiative, House Renewal, and edX. Associates Giving has five leadership giving levels with adjusted levels for recent graduates. Associates-level donors are listed in the Annual Report of Associates Giving and enjoy various special events throughout the year. We also rely on more than 300 Associates volunteers across all classes who solicit these leadership gifts annually from their classmates. To become a part of these volunteer efforts, please contact your class officer. We invite you to join this distinguished group of contributors as a new Associates donor or by renewing your commitment this year. Your contribution is critically important to Harvard's mission. Associates Giving Levels and Stewardship Associates ($1,000) You will be listed in the Annual Report of Associates Giving. College parent donors will receive an invitation to a parents leadership event in the spring. Charter Associates ($2,500) In addition to the above, you will receive a communication from a student providing greater insight into life on campus. Crimson Associates ($5,000) In addition to the above, you will receive invitations to join other Associates donors at regional events (locations vary). Leadership Associates ($10,000) In addition to the above, you will receive invitations to leadership programming. College parent donors will receive an invitation to Parents Leadership Weekend in the spring. President's Associates ($25,000 or more) In addition to the above, you will be invited to participate in the President’s Associates Dinner, held each year in conjunction with the Harvard-Yale football game. This cherished tradition includes keynote remarks by Harvard President Lawrence S. Bacow and FAS Dean Gay. Associates levels are adjusted down one level for recent graduates, who qualify with an initial gift of $250 (pre-5th Reunion) or $500 (pre-10th Reunion). Current students qualify with a gift of $100 or more. Please note: All events are subject to change due to unforeseen circumstances. Members will be notified of event changes. Harvard Yard Society The Harvard Yard Society comprises a select group of leaders who support Dean Gay's vision for innovation by providing flexible, immediate-use funding to the Harvard College Fund, Graduate School Fund, or Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences at the following membership levels: Dean's Fellows With a $1 million gift or pledge, these contributors support the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at the highest level, enabling Harvard to push the limits of liberal arts education. Dean's Fellows are recognized in the Harvard Yard Society in perpetuity and celebrated with a Harvard Yard Society event and on an honorary donor wall. Donors also receive an option to participate in a day of recognition, lifetime invitations to the President's Associates celebrations, and will receive ongoing communications illustrating how the FAS has benefited from immediate-use giving. Harvard Yard Society Fellows With a $500,000 gift or pledge, these contributors make a lasting impact by allowing the Faculty of Arts and Sciences to pursue new opportunities as they emerge. For a period of 10 years, Harvard Yard Society Fellows are celebrated with a Harvard Yard Society event and on an honorary donor wall. Donors are also invited to the President's Associates celebrations for 10 years, and receive ongoing communications illustrating how the FAS has benefited from immediate-use giving. Harvard Yard Society Partners With a $250,000 gift or pledge, these contributors make a significant commitment that enables flexible planning and investment in new initiatives. For a period of five years, Harvard Yard Society Partners are celebrated with a Harvard Yard Society event and on an honorary donor wall. Donors also receive an invitation to the President's Associates celebrations for five years, and ongoing communications illustrating how the FAS has benefited from immediate-use giving. Harvard Yard Society Members With a generous annual gift of $50,000, these contributors provide vital support for the dean's priorities. They are recognized at a Harvard Yard Society event and on the donor wall during the subsequent academic year. Donors also receive an invitation to the President's Associates celebrations and a report from the Edgerley Family Dean about immediate-use giving. Harvard Yard Society membership benefits are granted for the fiscal year following that in which a qualifying gift or payment is received. John Harvard Society Established in 1989, the John Harvard Society recognizes those individuals who have made a life income gift or bequest provision for Harvard College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS), or the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. More than 3,100 alumni, friends, and family members of the College, GSAS, and Harvard Paulson School have joined the Society by including Harvard in their planning. Members join a long and valued tradition that began over three and a half centuries ago when John Harvard left his library and half his estate to support a fledgling college founded two years earlier by the General Court of Massachusetts. For the new college, John Harvard's bequest was a much-needed source of financial support. Part was used to construct the college's first building, while the books formed the core of the college's library in its first years. Since then, countless alumni, parents, and friends have provided similar support, helping to sustain the strength of Harvard College's students, faculty, and programs. John Harvard Society Chairs In July 2019, Julie ’78 and Nick ’73, JD ’77, MBA ’77 Sakellariadis became the national chairs of the John Harvard Society. They are well known to Harvard, serving in numerous leadership roles, including as co-chairs for their respective classes. You can read more about Nick, Julie, and past national chairs at the JHS website. Senior Class Committee The 2021 Class Committee is supported by the Harvard Alumni Association and the Harvard College Fund. The first priority of the committee is to bring the Class together as a whole, connecting members of the Class of 2021 to one another and Harvard College by modeling and facilitating communication, participation, volunteerism, and philanthropy among classmates. The Executive Committee is comprised of the first and second Marshals, program marshals, gift marshals, class secretary, class treasurer, media team members, and house representatives. Other committee members work under the guidance of the Executive Committee to engage classmates. Learn more about the Executive Committee. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College