Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Careers, Life, and Yale Jump to… What Is "Careers, Life, and Yale"? Careers, Life, and Yale Events Cross Campus Careers, Life, and Yale Thursday Shows Careers, Life, and Yale Resources Get Involved & Contact Us What Is "Careers, Life, and Yale"? Careers, Life, and Yale is all about connections – connecting Yale alumni to each other and with current students for networking, advice, and mentoring – and developing career and life skills for navigating today's modern world. Here's how Careers, Life, and Yale events impart wisdom and create connections: Alumni-led, on-campus events and meet-ups (see the YAA events page for more) Alumni-led, away-from-campus events and meet-ups (again, see our events page for more) Yale's Cross Campus mentoring and networking community of approximately 20,000 Yalies One-to-one paired student-alumni mentorships on Cross Campus, accounting for nearly 3,000 Yalies, for both Yale College and the graduate and professional schools Thursday evening (8 p.m. ET) weekly programs held online and available to all alums. These connections accomplish several goals: Thoughtful career/life exploration and reflection Exposure to diverse, traditional, and non-traditional career and life paths Jump-starting the networking process Acquiring practical life skills Enhancing a sense of "One Yale" Activating Yale's alumni network Complementing Yale's on-campus career, personal, and wellness resources "For alumni, this is an opportunity to reconnect with campus and guide the next generation in developing robust and meaningful life paths. For students, it will lead to a better understanding of themselves, their intended careers, and their plans to lead productive and fulfilling lives. And for Yale, it will be a cornerstone of a university that is ever more unified and more excellent." Yale President Peter Salovey, on Careers, Life, and Yale Back to Top Careers, Life, and Yale Events Led by alumni volunteers with support from many organizations around campus, Careers, Life, and Yale events offer insights into unusual and established career paths. These events go deeper than career wisdom – alumni also share insights about leadership, teamwork, life transitions, financial literacy, and greater self-awareness. To find an event near you, go to the YAA events page and search by Careers and Networking under "Type" or use the keyword Careers, Life, and Yale. Back to Top Cross Campus Cross Campus is Yale’s networking, community-building, and mentoring platform. It facilitates relationships among Yalies – whether among alumni or between alumni and students – and is open to all Yale students, alums, and alumni affiliates. Cross Campus offers many ways to engage and extends our Yale community beyond campus by harnessing the power of Yale's alumni network. Back to Top Cross Campus Mentorship Cross Campus has two mentorship programs. One pairs alumni with Yale College students in a one-to-one (1:1) match. The other pairs alums with graduate/professional school students, also 1:1. Alumni mentors encourage and support students and serve as resources as students navigate their academics, aptitudes, and aspirations. Learn more and become a mentor today! Back to Top Careers, Life, and Yale Thursday Shows Every Thursday night at 8 p.m. ET, alumni volunteers, supported by Yale students and YAA staff, produce themed one-hour “episodes” that educate and entertain. All shows are virtual and available online. You can attend any one or all of these informal gatherings. Each episode features an alum or small panel of alums (or students), each is moderated by an alum or student, and each is attended by alums and students. The four areas of conversation include: Life and personal growth: Discussions of the types of wisdom and soft-skills that can help us navigate life after Yale. Career pivots: Discussions of the career twists and turns taken by Yale alums, with special discussion of lessons earned. Omnibus: Discussions of careers pursued by alums in particular fields, or underpinned by certain academic foundations. The student point of view: Sponsored by STAY (Students and Alumni of Yale), and following student-suggested topics and formats, these discussions shed light on today’s campus experience and/or what students want to learn from Yale alums. Register with us online to receive weekly reminders. Want to suggest a topic, discussion leader, or format? Email the Careers, Life, and Yale team. Back to Top Careers, Life, and Yale Webinars Browse our collection of webinars and stay tuned for more discussions from expert panels featuring Yale alums. Watch Now Back to Top Careers, Life, and Yale Resources The only constant is change. Whether you are launching your career, changing direction, reinventing yourself, or re-entering the workforce, you can find resources to guide you. Back to Top Get Involved & Contact Us Careers, Life, and Yale relies on alumni volunteers to share professional and personal wisdom with current students and with fellow alumni. Reach us by email. Join Careers, Life, and Yale on Facebook. Find us on Twitter and Instagram: @CareersLifeYale and @YaleAlumni. Share on Twitter and Instagram with #CareersLifeYale and #YaleAlumni. Back to Top Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page