Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Community Clubs & Shared Interest Groups Harvard Clubs and Shared Interest Groups offer a wide range of opportunities for Harvard alumni to engage with the Harvard community nearby and across the globe. Find a Club Join a SIG Menu Main menu Community Overview My Profile My Contacts Email Forwarding Email Preferences Message Board My Messages Post A Message Alumni Class Notes My Notes Submit a Class Note Clubs & SIGs Clubs Directory SIGs Directory Volunteer Public Service Stories Careers & Networking HAA Career Resources Career Resources by School HAA Career Webinars Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA HAA Board HAA Poet Laureate Staff Directory Awards and Recognition Help You built an incredible community during your time at Harvard. Now, as a member of the Harvard Alumni Association (HAA), you can make those same connections within the larger Harvard alumni community. Through Harvard Clubs and Shared Interest Groups (SIGs), you can meet alumni who share your interests, identity, or even geographical location. With nearly 200 Harvard Clubs in more than 70 countries, you can connect with local Harvard alumni. Or, if you are looking to connect with others around a shared identity, interest, profession, or student activity, you can check out nearly 60 global SIGs. Both Harvard Clubs and HAA SIGs offer social, cultural, and intellectual events, service opportunities, and ways to stay in touch. Help grow your personal network and enrich your professional life through these alumni communities. Not only do they provide access to resources and opportunities to meet fellow alumni, they are also a fulfilling way to remain connected to the Harvard community. Get to know—and get involved with—a Club or SIG today by visiting our Harvard Clubs Directory or SIGs Directory. Harvard Alumni Communities Browse these directories to find a Club or Shared Interest Group right for you. Find a Club Near You Alumni-led and spread across six continents, each of our geographically-based alumni communities have their own local flavor. Many Harvard Clubs offer dues-free memberships, while others offer very reasonable dues with discounts and free memberships for recent graduates. Explore the Clubs Directory Join a Shared Interest Group Just like the student organizations you may have engaged with back in the day, Harvard SIGs connect alumni from all over the globe based on shared interest, experience, culture, profession, or avocation. The best part? Most do not charge dues. Explore the SIG Directory Upcoming Club & SIG Events Jun 01 Lecture/Reading/Talk June 1 - Future of Health - CEO Roundtable: ESG Priorities in Life Sciences Innovation Harvard Club of San Diego Jun 01 Minneapolis, MN Lecture/Reading/Talk “Private Equity as a Structurally Superior Asset Class” with David Royal Harvard Club of Minnesota Jun 01 Lecture/Reading/Talk VIRTUAL: American Masterplan: Commemorating the 75th Anniversary of the Marshall Plan Harvard Club of Washington, DC View All Upcoming Events Stories March 10, 2021 Campus & Community Civil Rights Lawyer Chosen as Chief Marshal The Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) has announced that Anurima Bhargava AB ’96 was elected by her class to serve as this year’s chief marshal, following a tradition that goes back more than 120 years. December 7, 2020 Alumni Profiles Students Lifting the Stigma Sangu Delle ’10, JD ’16, MBA ’16 shares what he discovered in failure—and why he told the world. September 10, 2020 Campus & Community Public Service Six Alumni Honored for Outstanding Service The Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) has announced the recipients of the 2020 HAA Awards, which are presented annually to recognize alumni for their outstanding service to the University through leadership and engagement activities. As president of the Harvard Club of Seattle, I enjoy having the opportunity to facilitate connections, form lasting relationships, and kindle the flame of Harvard no matter where alumni reside. Michael Bervell AB '19 Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College