Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Giving Planned Giving By making a planned gift, you can make a significant gift to Harvard to address some of the world's most pressing issues through cutting-edge research and the education of tomorrow's leaders—and gain financial and tax benefits for you and your family. Menu Main menu Giving Overview Give Online Planned Giving Gifts That Pay You Income Lead Trusts Assets You Can Give Events Harvard Planned Gift Administration Resources Meet the Staff Contact Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Types of Bequests How to Make a Bequest Benefits of a Bequest Future Use Attorney & Advisor Info Gift Policy Guide Tax Information FAQ Giving Contacts Harvard Planned Gift Administration After a rigorous review process, Harvard University and Harvard Management Company (HMC) have selected TIAA Kaspick—a longtime leader in planned gift management—as the new trust administrator for Harvard’s planned giving program. Partnering with Kaspick will better position Harvard to serve our planned giving donors now and into the future, providing the same level of personalized service as our program continues to grow due to the thoughtful generosity of our donors. Learn More Benefits of Planned Gifts There are several types of gifts that first pay income to you and your family and then help Harvard. These also can enable you to dispose of illiquid assets in exchange for income and tax benefits. The lead trust is a gift arrangement that can help you transfer wealth to the next generation in a tax-efficient manner. News and Opportunities IRA Qualified Charitable Distributions (QCDs) and the Setting Every Community Up for Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act Under longstanding law, qualified donors may make outright gifts of up to $100,000 per year to Harvard from their IRAs—so-called QCDs. The amount donated to charity is excluded from the donor’s taxable income. In addition, the distributions may help satisfy a donor’s required minimum distribution (RMD) for the year. Moreover, because the QCD offers an exclusion from taxable income rather than a deduction, this strategy is not limited to taxpayers who itemize their deductions. As a result, it may be used by non-itemizing donors who do not ordinarily receive any tax benefit for their charitable gifts. (Please see the above discussion regarding the temporary deduction for non-itemizing donors.) To benefit from this gift opportunity, the following qualifications (among others) must be met: The donor must be age 70 ½ or older at the time of transfer. The maximum amount a donor may transfer is $100,000. The gift must be outright. Gifts to donor-advised funds or to life income vehicles do not qualify. The gift must be transferred directly from the IRA account by the IRA administrator to Harvard. Donors with check-writing ability for their IRAs may use this feature to complete their gift. Donors should be aware that sweeping retirement legislation enacted at the end of 2019—the SECURE Act—made two changes impacting QCDs: The SECURE Act increased the age at which IRA owners must begin taking RMDs from 70 ½ to 72. While IRA owners may still make tax-free QCDs beginning at age 70 ½, the QCDs will not also help satisfy their RMDs until they turn 72 and are required to take RMDs. In addition, donors must now reduce their QCDs by the amount of any deductible contributions they make to their IRAs after age 70 ½. To assist donors interested in making a charitable gift from their IRA, we have provided the following sample letters: Sample IRA QCD Request from Plan Owner to IRA Administrator (PDF) Sample Letter from Donor Informing Harvard of IRA QCD Transfer (PDF) The first letter contains specific transfer instructions from the donor to the IRA custody agent. The second letter is from the donor to Harvard to inform Harvard as to how the gift should be used. This letter is particularly important for donors interested in splitting their gift between multiple Schools or Harvard affiliates. It also ensures Harvard's ability to provide appropriate class credit to alumni donors. If you have any questions regarding the IRA QCD giving opportunity or how to make a planned gift to Harvard, please contact University Planned Giving at pgo@harvard.edu or 800-446-1277. Increased Gift and Estate Tax Exemption The federal gift and estate tax exemption for 2022 has increased to $12.06 million per individual and $24.12 million per married couple. The annual gift exclusion amount has increased to $16,000. back to top Stories November 4, 2021 Alumni Profiles Philanthropy Campus & Community A Stake in Harvard's Future For recent graduate Tony Wang AB ’11, MBA ’17, long-term giving to Harvard through a charitable lead trust is an investment in building community and maximizing financial impact. November 1, 2021 Philanthropy Striking the Right Chord Through a gift of real estate, Harriet Woodworth Koch AB ’57 and Albin C. “Al” Koch JD ’59 are honoring the legacy of a beloved Harvard professor by helping student musicians pursue their passions. April 16, 2021 Philanthropy Maximizing the Power to Give Karen Johnson has spent her entire career working to facilitate private, philanthropic support for Harvard—first for 30 years as an attorney at Ropes & Gray LLP and now as an attorney and director at Harvard Management Company (HMC). Today at HMC, she helps donors find the most effective way to support Harvard and plan for their financial futures. We recently spent some time talking with Karen about her work at Harvard and in particular her work with donors who are interested in making gifts of complex assets. Contact University Planned Giving Please contact our office for information on gift strategies that can help you support Harvard’s teaching and research and provide significant benefits to you and your family. 124 Mount Auburn Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Phone: 800-446-1277 or 617-495-4647 Fax: 617-495-8130 Email: pgo@harvard.edu Tax I.D. #: ‌04‑210‑3580 Contact Us Gift Strategies Planned Giving Information Explore the benefits of a variety of gift options with our planned giving calculator. The ninth edition of The Harvard Manual on Tax Aspects of Charitable Giving, written by Carolyn Osteen and Martin Hall of Ropes & Gray, LLP is available. Order your copy today. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College