Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Alumni Breadcrumb Home All News All News Sub Navigation In This Section News & Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories 88 Results based on your selections. Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art News from Brown Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future April 30, 2022 Members of the Warren Alpert Medical School community, including graduates from classes ranging from 1972 to 2022, gathered to commemorate the history and look to the future of Rhode Island’s first and only medical school. Read Article Open details for Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President & Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 April 28, 2022 By helping educators access crucial information resources, Hintermeister taps into passions she discovered as a Brown undergrad: sharing knowledge and giving back. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President &amp; Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 Alumni & Friends Examining the Evolution of Women at Brown April 11, 2022 A unique online networking opportunity and discussion brought together Brunonians from around the world for an evening of insight and connection. Read Article Open details for Examining the Evolution of Women at Brown Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Film Exec Nina Jacobson ’87, P’23 March 29, 2022 A lifelong commitment to creative storytelling—and a desire for equal representation in the film industry—has shaped the successful Hollywood career of this former semiotics concentrator. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Film Exec Nina Jacobson ’87, P’23 Alumni & Friends Anticipation, joy, relief. Match Day is in the books! March 21, 2022 Members of Brown’s MD Class of 2022 celebrated the start of the next phase of their medical careers as they discovered where they have been matched for residencies. Read Article Open details for Anticipation, joy, relief. Match Day is in the books! Alumni & Friends 10 alumnae bring Brown women’s history to life March 18, 2022 Tap into the rich history of women at Brown through these fascinating excerpts selected from the Pembroke Center’s Oral History Project. Read Article Open details for 10 alumnae bring Brown women’s history to life News from Brown Class of 2009 graduate Zack Langway to lead alumni relations at Brown March 8, 2022 With professional accomplishments in community building and more than a decade of volunteer leadership with Brown, Langway will return to College Hill to lead efforts to cultivate and sustain strong alumni relationships. Read Article Open details for Class of 2009 graduate Zack Langway to lead alumni relations at Brown Alumni & Friends Jennifer Gomez ’08: Founder and Tech Entrepreneur March 4, 2022 In this episode of the Women’s Voices Amplified podcast, Gomez discusses her unintentional path to leadership, being the only woman of color in certain spaces, trusting herself fully, and the importance of community. Read Article Open details for Jennifer Gomez ’08: Founder and Tech Entrepreneur Alumni & Friends 9 Brown love stories that will warm your heart February 11, 2022 Celebrate true love this Valentine’s Day with sweet stories of Brunonians finding their “one and only” on College Hill. Read Article Open details for 9 Brown love stories that will warm your heart Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Marketing Maven Ivon Rodriguez ’00 EMBA’16 February 10, 2022 From broadcast media to museums to fintech, Ivon Rodriguez has carried the “think outside the box” approach from Brown into every industry she touches. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Marketing Maven Ivon Rodriguez ’00 EMBA’16 Alumni & Friends WATCH | Empowering Change: An Evening of Conversation & Learning with Professors Bogues, Rose & Provost Locke February 7, 2022 At this special event, leading Brown scholars illuminated their work and fielded questions from the alumni community about the persistence of racial inequality and the legacies of slavery. Read Article Open details for WATCH | Empowering Change: An Evening of Conversation &amp; Learning with Professors Bogues, Rose &amp; Provost Locke Alumni & Friends The best medicine? Paying it forward January 13, 2022 Through their volunteer work, Brown medical alumni are giving back to where it all began and supporting the next generation of Brown physicians. Read Article Open details for The best medicine? Paying it forward Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Volunteer & Advocate Max Clermont ’11 MPH’12 January 13, 2022 Drawn to public service efforts, Clermont also continues to serve his alma mater as a champion and advocate for Brown’s volunteer efforts. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Volunteer &amp; Advocate Max Clermont ’11 MPH’12 News from Brown Accomplished biomedical engineer, academic leader named Brown School of Engineering dean January 12, 2022 Tejal Desai, a professor and researcher who has led academic programs at the University of California San Francisco, Boston University and elsewhere, will work to expand collaborative engineering research and teaching. Read Article Open details for Accomplished biomedical engineer, academic leader named Brown School of Engineering dean Alumni & Friends 6 Takeaways from Women in Washington: Leading in Times of Crisis December 15, 2021 On December 9, 2021, the Brown Women’s Network welcomed two senior leaders in the Biden administration to discuss the evolving role of women in Washington and what it means to lead in times of uncertainty. Read Article Open details for 6 Takeaways from Women in Washington: Leading in Times of Crisis Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Disability Policy Expert Taryn Williams ’02 December 6, 2021 A recent White House nominee in the Department of Labor, Williams has dedicated her career to workplace equity. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Disability Policy Expert Taryn Williams ’02 Alumni & Friends A lifetime commitment to Brown and to medicine October 18, 2021 Dean and alumna Julianne Ip ’75 MD’78 RES’81 P’18 is leaving an institutional legacy and an imprint on thousands of students’ lives. Read Article Open details for A lifetime commitment to Brown and to medicine Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Communications Strategist Zack Langway ’09 October 15, 2021 One Brown alum is bringing a sense of community to his work in nonprofit and corporate communications. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Communications Strategist Zack Langway ’09 Alumni & Friends Miranda ADEkoje '04: Writer, Producer, and Actor September 22, 2021 In this episode of the Women’s Voices Amplified podcast, ADEkoje discusses producing art amidst the pandemic, the political relevance of her work, and how Brown’s Open Curriculum empowered her to construct her own career path. Read Article Open details for Miranda ADEkoje &#039;04: Writer, Producer, and Actor Alumni & Friends Health care and haircuts: Bringing preventative measures to the neighborhood August 11, 2021 In her mission for more equitable health care, Dr. Marshala Lee MD’11 is using every tool she can: mentoring students, educating patients, even training local barbers. Read Article Open details for Health care and haircuts: Bringing preventative measures to the neighborhood Alumni & Friends The ripple effect of the Brown alumni community August 10, 2021 Alumni volunteer leaders explore how a Brown education reverberates into the world at large. Read Article Open details for The ripple effect of the Brown alumni community Alumni & Friends #GoBruno: Brunonians at the Tokyo Olympics July 21, 2021 Congratulations and best of luck to all the Brunonians who are in Tokyo for the Olympic Games! Read Article Open details for #GoBruno: Brunonians at the Tokyo Olympics Alumni & Friends For one young alum, the impact of financial aid continues to reverberate June 16, 2021 Financial aid has the power to open the door to more opportunities. For Gabriel Reyes ’18, it opened up a whole new universe of opportunities. Read Article Open details for For one young alum, the impact of financial aid continues to reverberate Alumni & Friends Examining COVID-19’s place in history with bestselling author John M. Barry ’68 June 14, 2021 The Brown University Veterans Alumni Council (BUVAC) welcomed the author for a talk titled "Contextualizing COVID-19: Its Impact in Rhode Island and Correlations to 1918." Read Article Open details for Examining COVID-19’s place in history with bestselling author John M. Barry ’68 Alumni & Friends Alpha Gamma: A look back at 100 years June 13, 2021 Two alumni illuminate the history and legacy of Brown’s oldest Black fraternity. Read Article Open details for Alpha Gamma: A look back at 100 years News from Brown Brown alumna captures Pulitzer Prize for study of McDonald’s franchises in Black America June 11, 2021 Marcia Chatelain, who graduated from Brown with a master’s and Ph.D. in American civilization, won the 2021 prize for the history category for her book “Franchise: The Golden Arches in Black America.” Read Article Open details for Brown alumna captures Pulitzer Prize for study of McDonald’s franchises in Black America Alumni & Friends Valerie Tutson '87 AM'90: Storyteller and Artist June 8, 2021 Tutson reflects on the global influences that have inspired her, the healing power of stories that connect us with our past, and how her independent concentration at Brown allowed her to find her path. Read Article Open details for Valerie Tutson &#039;87 AM&#039;90: Storyteller and Artist News from Brown Brown students, recent graduates earn 27 Fulbright scholarships June 7, 2021 This year’s student Fulbright winners will begin teaching and research assignments in 17 countries around the world in fall of 2021. Read Article Open details for Brown students, recent graduates earn 27 Fulbright scholarships News from Brown Brown alumni to oversee new NASA robotic missions to Venus June 3, 2021 The space agency will send two new spacecraft to Earth’s “evil twin” in the next decade, and both Discovery Program missions will be led by Brown graduates. Read Article Open details for Brown alumni to oversee new NASA robotic missions to Venus News from Brown Brown Corporation elects three new fellows, seven trustees June 1, 2021 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects three new fellows, seven trustees Alumni & Friends Reunion, with a 2021 Twist May 3, 2021 With events both inspired by reunions past plus brand-new digital extras, Brown’s 2021 Virtual Reunion Weekend bypassed all geographic boundaries and headed straight into the living rooms of thousands of alumni around the world. Read Article Open details for Reunion, with a 2021 Twist News from Brown Brown awards six honorary doctorates during Commencement May 2, 2021 During its 253rd Commencement on Sunday, May 2, Brown University bestowed honorary degrees on a diverse group of business leaders, educators, scholars and scientists. Read Article Open details for Brown awards six honorary doctorates during Commencement News from Brown Reunion events, Commencement forums capture, virtually, the spirit of community celebration, intellectual discovery May 2, 2021 A fully virtual Reunion Weekend, featuring longstanding traditions and unexpected twists, and a series of remote Commencement forums complemented in-person events taking place on College Hill from April 30 to May 2. Read Article Open details for Reunion events, Commencement forums capture, virtually, the spirit of community celebration, intellectual discovery News from Brown Brown to celebrate Commencement and Reunion Weekend with mix of in-person, virtual events April 29, 2021 A series of in-person, socially distanced Commencement ceremonies for graduates and a wide range of virtual events for students, families and Brown alumni will take place from April 30 to May 2 — here is what to expect. Read Article Open details for Brown to celebrate Commencement and Reunion Weekend with mix of in-person, virtual events News from Brown Brown to confer six honorary degrees at Commencement 2021 April 20, 2021 Brown will bestow honorary degrees on a diverse group of business leaders, educators, scholars and scientists during its Commencement and Reunion Weekend celebration from April 30 to May 2. Read Article Open details for Brown to confer six honorary degrees at Commencement 2021 Alumni & Friends Brunonians taking action against racism April 16, 2021 Brown alumni share stories of how they're addressing racial injustice in their lives. Read Article Open details for Brunonians taking action against racism Alumni & Friends Hope for rare diseases March 16, 2021 Sandi Nusinoff Lehrman ’69 MD’76 and Stephen A. Lehrman ’73 have seen two grandchildren battle a rare neurological disease. Through their philanthropy, they're supporting Brown's Center for Translational Neuroscience in its crusade to discover new treatments for rare brain diseases. Read Article Open details for Hope for rare diseases Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Amanda Boston AM'16 PhD'18 March 12, 2021 As a grad student, Boston looked forward to learning from the top minds in her field. What she found was family. Learn why she gives back to Brown by serving as New Alumni Trustee on the Corporation. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Amanda Boston AM&#039;16 PhD&#039;18 Alumni & Friends Lorine Pendleton '91: Attorney and Venture Capitalist March 12, 2021 Recently named one of the “50 most connected women in America” by Marie Claire, Pendleton has put her varied career experiences to work investing in and advising women and diverse-led businesses. Read Article Open details for Lorine Pendleton &#039;91: Attorney and Venture Capitalist News from Brown Nationally recognized head of Penn athletics M. Grace Calhoun to lead athletics and recreation at Brown March 5, 2021 A varsity student-athlete who graduated in Brown’s Class of 1992, Calhoun will serve in a newly elevated role of vice president of athletics and recreation, beginning April 19, 2021. Read Article Open details for Nationally recognized head of Penn athletics M. Grace Calhoun to lead athletics and recreation at Brown Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Jeffrey Hines ’83 MD’86 February 15, 2021 From the professor who changed everything to his current role in University leadership, Jeffrey Hines reflects on how Brown has shaped his career, his life, and his community. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Jeffrey Hines ’83 MD’86 Alumni & Friends Nancy K. MacLean ’81 AM’81 on the significance of understanding our history February 8, 2021 In this episode of the Women’s Voices Amplified podcast, Ellen Hunter ’04 speaks with historian, author, and professor Nancy K. MacLean ’81 AM’81 about social movements, the state of our democracy, and how history can inform the present. Read Article Open details for Nancy K. MacLean ’81 AM’81 on the significance of understanding our history News from Brown Alumni-led nonprofit donates monitors to Providence teachers in name of Brown professor February 2, 2021 Two Screens for Teachers, cofounded by Class of 1998 graduate Matthew Lerner, donated monitors to more than 400 Providence teachers in the name of legendary Brown professor Andy van Dam. Read Article Open details for Alumni-led nonprofit donates monitors to Providence teachers in name of Brown professor News from Brown Brown alumna Janet Yellen first woman to serve as treasury secretary January 28, 2021 The Class of 1967 Brown graduate and former Federal Reserve chair will advise President Joseph Biden and his cabinet on economic issues. Read Article Open details for Brown alumna Janet Yellen first woman to serve as treasury secretary News from Brown Brown alumna to co-chair science and technology council under Biden administration January 20, 2021 Maria Zuber, a senior leader and faculty member at MIT who earned her Ph.D. from Brown, will lead the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology. Read Article Open details for Brown alumna to co-chair science and technology council under Biden administration News from Brown Brown alumna selected for NASA’s new lunar exploration program December 14, 2020 As one of 18 astronauts selected for NASA’s Artemis program, Brown Class of 1999 graduate and accomplished astronaut Jessica Meir has a chance to become the first woman to walk on the Moon. Read Article Open details for Brown alumna selected for NASA’s new lunar exploration program Alumni & Friends 7 stories of Brown women making a difference December 11, 2020 We salute these remarkable Brown alumnae whose important work, ranging from working on the front lines of the pandemic to fighting for democracy, inspired us in 2020. Read Article Open details for 7 stories of Brown women making a difference Alumni & Friends Creating a home for student veterans December 8, 2020 Brown has taken several steps toward building a more welcoming and supportive environment for student veterans. But none has been more important than boosting the amount of financial aid available to those who have served their country with honor. Read Article Open details for Creating a home for student veterans Previous 1 2 Next Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Alumni Open details for Alumni Bookmark this Page