Skip to main content ncstate-alumni-wolf-web Alumni Association Menu Close About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Join Options facebook twitter linked in email About About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine NC State Magazine Merchandise Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Join Options Membership makes a difference Alumni and Friends Join the Pack! We offer an Alumni Association membership to all our graduates, supporters and friends. It’s a great way to stay connected with NC State, your fellow graduates and the wonderful Wolfpack traditions that link one generation of alumni to another. Joint membership provides NC State families special offers at places like the N.C. Zoo, the N.C. Aquariums or the N.C. Museum of Life and Science, holiday activities, admission information sessions (to ensure NC State stays a family tradition) and more. $50 One-Year Individual $60 One-Year Joint $135 Three-Year Individual $165 Three-Year Joint Life Our hearts ever hold you! In honor of your lifelong love for NC State, the Alumni Association offers its members a Lifetime Member Program. Proceeds from this membership are contributed to an endowment, which ensures valuable programs and services for students and alumni will continue beyond the lifetime of the member. $950 Lifetime $1,200 Joint Lifetime “Supporting NC State University and our Wolfpack alumni family is easily accomplished through a continued and lifelong support of our ever cherished Alumni Association. I found a life membership in the NC State Alumni Association to be the easiest manner in which to maintain that commitment.” Warren Williams ’90, Life Member Current Students Pack for life! Members of the Student Alumni Association (SAA) serve NC State by participating in special campus traditions including Homecoming, Ram Roast and pep rallies. Members can also connect with alumni who can offer academic and career advice during networking dinners. Secure your lifelong connection to NC State before you even turn your tassel! Student life members receive all of our standard life member benefits, including a NC State magazine subscription. $25 One-Year SAA Member $45 Two-Year SAA Member $60 Three-Year SAA Member $75 Four-Year SAA Member $750 Student to Life Why I’m a Member Tony Caravano ’04 talks about his support of the NC State Alumni Association. Watch Video Young Alumni Welcome to the Alumni family! Earning an NC State degree is a milestone worth celebrating. For those who have recently graduated, your Alumni Association is ready to help ease the transition from the familiar comfort of the NC State community to new experiences that connect you with the larger Wolfpack family. $30 Young Alumni One-Year $750 Young Alumni Life 60+ Leaving a legacy. NC State changed your life. It provided the knowledge and skills needed to launch you into a career. You made forever friends and learned a few life lessons. Naturally, NC State holds a special place in your heart. Celebrate that love and pride by becoming a 60+ life member. $500 60+ Individual Lifetime $600 60+ Joint Lifetime Forever Club Forever NC State. When you reach your 50th Class Reunion, you are automatically inducted into the Forever Club and can join as a lifetime member at a special rate. $350 Forever Club Individual Lifetime $450 Forever Club Joint Lifetime Gift Give the gift of the Wolfpack! Alumni Association memberships make perfect gifts — we even provide you with a printable gift membership certificate to give your family member, friend or loved one. Your gift recipient will help support alumni and student programs while the recipient receives numerous benefits and discounts. Your gift membership confirmation email will include a certificate that you can fill out and print for your recipient. $25 One-Year Student $30 One-Year Young Alumni $50 One-Year Individual $60 One-Year Joint $750 Young Alumni Lifetime $950 Individual Lifetime $1,200 Joint Lifetime Alumni Association Home Campus Box 7503 NC State University Raleigh NC 27695-7503 919.515.3375 Campus Map About Membership Events Engagement News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.