Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift How to Make a Gift Jump to Gifts to the University Legal and Tax Info Annual Giving and the Parents Fund Capital or Endowment Gifts Donor-Advised Funds Gift Planning Gifts of Stock Giving from Outside the U.S. In Memoriam Giving Matching Gifts Qualified Charitable Distribution from an IRA FAQ Jump to Gifts to the University Legal and Tax Info Annual Giving and the Parents Fund Capital or Endowment Gifts Donor-Advised Funds Gift Planning Gifts of Stock Giving from Outside the U.S. In Memoriam Giving Matching Gifts Qualified Charitable Distribution from an IRA FAQ How to Make a Gift Gifts to the University Gifts to the University must respect the University’s fundamental commitment to academic freedom and the rigorous and independent pursuit of truth. As such, gifts to Princeton do not provide donors with influence over the use and administration of their gifts, nor do gifts afford donors other kinds of influence in virtue of their gifts. Thus, Princeton will not accept a gift that provides a donor or third party with real or perceived influence over or special access with respect to the structure, process, content, or results of research, curriculum, and other academic activities. Moreover, Princeton will not accept a gift that provides a donor or third party with control with respect to its use or administration, including but not limited to the roles served by advisory boards, groups or committees and decisions regarding admissions, financial aid awards, hiring, faculty appointments and promotions, scholarly exhibitions or publications, research topics, and investment and expenditure. See Princeton University Gift Policies Legal and Tax Info Our legal name is: Trustees of Princeton University Our tax ID number (EIN) is: 21-0634501 Annual Giving and the Parents Fund Undergraduate and graduate alumni, Princeton parents, and friends may make gifts online at princeton.edu/ag. Online Gifts A One-Time Gift is charged to your credit card and is designated for the current campaign. An Installment Gift is a specific gift amount that is charged monthly, in equal installments, to your credit card, with the total gift amount to be paid in full by June 30. The total gift amount paid by June 30 will be designated for the current campaign. (Minimum total gift amount is $25.) A Recurring Gift is a gift designated for this year’s campaign and renews for future campaigns. This gift is charged to your credit card in the interval you choose: monthly, quarterly, or annually. Make Your AG Gift Online Give by Phone Call 800.258.5421 within the U.S. and Canada or 609.258.3373 internationally. Outside business hours, you will get a recording prompting you to leave your information. Give by Mail Download and return this form with your gift Annual Giving P.O. Box 5357 Princeton, NJ 08543-5357 Give by wire transfer Gifts can be transferred via domestic or international wire transfer. Electronically transferred funds should be payable in U.S. dollars. Please notify our office in advance of your intent to wire funds. For more information, please contact: Helen Hardy Alumni and Donor Records 609.258.8283 hhardy@princeton.edu Capital or Endowment Gifts To discuss making capital and endowment gifts to Princeton, please contact 609.258.8972. More information on the University's policies on accepting gifts is available on the Office of Finance and Treasury website. Donor-Advised Funds If you have already benefited from the immediate tax deductions offered by donor-advised funds (DAFs), you should know that Princeton University is an IRS-qualified public charity, and therefore eligible to receive contributions from your gift fund. Please follow the instructions provided by your fund regarding minimum contribution, the process for recommending grants, etc. Princeton University’s tax ID number is: 21-0634501. Please make checks payable to Princeton University and mail to the following address: Alumni and Donor Records P.O. Box 5357 Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08543-5357 What is a Donor-Advised Fund? A donor-advised fund (DAF) is a philanthropic vehicle established at a public charity that allows donors to make a charitable contribution, receive an immediate tax benefit, and then recommend grants from the fund to public charities of their choice over time. How Does it Work? Establish your DAF by making an irrevocable, tax-deductible donation to a public charity that sponsors a DAF program. Advise the investment allocation of the donated assets (any investment growth is tax-free). Recommend grants to qualified public charities of your choice. Gift Planning To discuss bequests, trusts, and other forms of gift planning, including Annual Giving Legacy gifts, please contact the Office of Gift Planning at 609.258.6318 or giftplanning@princeton.edu. Gifts of Stock Gifts of securities either held by your bank or brokerage or held by you offer significant tax advantages for alumni, parents, and friends and are easy to make. Our legal name is: Trustees of Princeton University Our tax ID number is: 21-0634501 Securities Held by Your Bank or Broker You or your broker/bank must notify Alumni and Donor Records via stock@princeton.edu or 609.258.0160 to be sure your gift is identified as yours. Here are gift instructions to provide to your bank or broker: I wish to make an irrevocable gift to Princeton University of "x" shares of "XYZ" Corporation. Please transfer the stock to Princeton University via DTC as follows: UBS Financial DTC#0221 Trustees of Princeton University Account #PT-57000-LM Attn: Robert J. Moses Please notify Princeton University Alumni and Donor Records: Denise Lezan Alumni and Donor Records Princeton University PO Box 5357 Princeton, NJ 08543-5357 Phone: 609.258.0160 Fax: 609.258.6773 stock@princeton.edu To donate stock gifts for planned gifts, including charitable gift annuities and charitable remainder unitrusts, contact the Office of Gift Planning at 609.258.6318 or by email at GiftPlanning@princeton.edu for applicable transfer instructions. Securities Held By You If you hold a stock certificate, please send it to us with a stock power form. For safety and simplicity, you should send the certificate and stock power form separately. 1. Send your certificate(s) without any endorsement, assignment, or other notation to: (by first class mail) Office of Alumni and Donor Records Princeton University PO Box 5357 Princeton, NJ 08543-5357 (via overnight carrier) Office of Alumni and Donor Records Princeton University 100 Overlook Center, Suite 300 Princeton, NJ 08540 Enclose a letter stating the purpose of your gift (i.e. Annual Giving, scholarship, or other gift type). 2. Download and print out a stock power form, one for each separate security, if applicable. 3. Sign the stock power exactly as your name appears on the certificate and leave the rest of the form blank. 4. Mail the signed stock power in a separate envelope, along with a copy of the letter that accompanied the certificate, to the address above. Questions about donating stock gifts or mutual funds? Please contact the Office of Alumni and Donor Records at 609.258.0160 or e-mail stock@princeton.edu. Our legal name is: Trustees of Princeton University Our tax ID number is: 21-0634501 Note: Your gift is valued on the day that the stock is received in a Princeton account. Gifts of securities that are held for more than one year may be deducted at the full market value. Giving from Outside the U.S. Give from near and far: If you live outside the United States and are considering a gift to Princeton, you can, in most cases, give online using your credit card. In other cases, we can help you navigate the giving landscape by providing you with details such as fees, basic tax information and partner organizations that can help process your gift. Giving Options In Memoriam Giving With In Memoriam giving, you pay tribute to a friend or loved one with a gift that bears the name of the person you wish to honor. You may direct your support towards an Annual Giving class fund, a scholarship or fellowship, or another area of campus life. To make a Memorial gift online, please indicate in the "Comments" section the name of the person you wish to honor. All In Memoriam gifts made through Annual Giving are credited to the class of the deceased as part of that class's total. For more information on Annual Giving, please contact: Beth Perrino Associate Director, Annual Giving 609.258.8793 bperrino@princeton.edu For more information on making a restricted Memorial gift, please contact: Thomas Roddenbery Associate Director, Fundraising Initiatives 609.258.6122 thomasr@princeton.edu Make a Memorial Gift Online Matching Gifts Many companies sponsor matching gift programs that will match contributions made to Princeton by their employees or their employees’ spouses. If you do not see your company listed, you may contact your human resources department to learn whether your employer has a Matching Gift Program. When searching through your company's database of charitable organizations, please look for: The Trustees of Princeton University, Tax ID number: 21-0634501 Please send completed forms to: Antoinette Pirrera Princeton University P.O. Box 5357 Princeton, NJ 08543-5357 Questions about matching gift programs? Please contact Antoinette Pirrera at 609.258.8609 or e-mail mthgifts@princeton.edu. Search for Companies that Match Gifts Qualified Charitable Distribution from an IRA Gifts from your Individual Retirement Account can be given to an eligible charitable organization, like Princeton. Up to $100,000 of the gift is excluded from your gross income for tax purposes. These gifts also apply to your required minimum distribution. How it works: You make a distribution directly from an IRA to Princeton by December 31. The distribution counts toward your required minimum distribution. Are you eligible? You are at least 70½ years of age The distribution must otherwise be included in gross income The distribution must otherwise be fully deductible as a charitable contribution. Benefits: Up to $100,000 is removed from your gross income for income tax purposes.* The distribution counts toward your required minimum distribution. Princeton University’s tax ID number is: 21-0634501. Please make checks payable to Princeton University and mail to the following address: Alumni and Donor Records P.O. Box 5357 Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08543-5357 Could a charitable distribution from an IRA work for you? Please contact us. *Certain IRS limitations apply. The information presented is not intended as legal or financial advice. Please consult your own professional advisors to discuss your specific situation. FAQ Find answers to frequently asked questions about how to make a gift. Read FAQs Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram