Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Date June 6, 2019 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Reunion 2019: It’s not goodbye, it’s see you later. You revisited the old times. You reveled in the new. Relive the standout moments of Reunion Weekend 2019. For some it had been a hot minute. For others it seemed just like yesterday. For thousands of Brown alumni, it didn’t matter how much time had passed since their last time on campus: they were home. These Brunonians—along with their families—returned to their old stomping grounds for Reunion Weekend (May 24–26, 2019). It was three days of festivities filled with reconnecting with old friends, celebrating the next generation of Brunonia, and carrying on some of Brown’s most beloved traditions. 1 of 8 Commencement and Reunion Weekend is a uniquely Brown event, where the Brown community comes together to celebrate what it means to be part of the Brown family. 2 of 8 Temps in the 70s-80s throughout the weekend provided a perfect backdrop for the hundreds of activities taking place across campus. 3 of 8 Ursa Minors Concert: The all-female a cappella celebrated their seniors in their final performance. 4 of 8 Unity Celebration: President Paxson raised a glass to Brown’s alumni leaders and graduates in recognition of their accomplishments. 5 of 8 Brown University honored a champion of campus diversity, Mercedes Domenech, at Friday night’s Latinx Legacy Community Celebration at the Brown Faculty Club. 6 of 8 The classes of 2014 and 2009 kicked off the weekend at a joint reception at Alumnae Hall Friday night before heading over to Campus Dance. 7 of 8 At Friday night’s Campus Dance, ~14,000 revelers swayed to the rhythms of the Duke Belaire Orchestra, Kiwii Sour and richard under hundreds of paper lanterns and starry skies. 8 of 8 Commencement Procession: It’s one of Brown’s oldest and most beloved traditions. As graduating students march through the Van Wickle Gates, they're welcomed by hundreds of cheering alumni, faculty, friends and family—as they begin their own lifelong connection to the Brown alumni community. Moments that defined the weekend Acclaimed actor and filmmaker John Krasinski ’01 addressed the Class of 2019 in the Baccalaureate ceremony: “The piece of paper I got not only says where I was educated but who I was educated with, and it declares that I am a member of that community of people to be relied upon to take risks, provoke thought, and to be committed participants in this world.” Watch Krasinksi’s full speech. At Friday night’s Campus Dance, approximately 14,000 members of the Brown community swayed to the rhythms of the Duke Belaire Orchestra, richard, and Kiwii Sour under starry skies and hundreds of paper lanterns. It’s not every year that we see a member of the 80th Reunion class cheer on Brown’s newest alumni during Commencement Procession. Impressed by the turnout, Teresa Mellone ’39 remarked: “What a tribute to education." John Krasinski was one of seven honorary degree recipients, along with documentary filmmaker Ken Burns; advocate and nonprofit innovator Sheryl Brissett Chapman ’71; social scientist and thought leader Jennifer Richeson ’94; global business leader and philanthropist David Rubenstein; business leader and philanthropist E. Paul (Pablo) Sorensen ’71 ScM’75 PhD’77, P’06, P’06; and fundraising consultant and philanthropist Joan Wernig Sorensen ’72, P’06, P’06. Ira Magaziner ’69 was on campus celebrating two 50th anniversaries—his graduation and the creation of the Open Curriculum, of which he was one of the chief architects. The University is in the midst of a year-long celebration of its distinctive, student-centered curriculum. At the Latinx Legacy Community Celebration, the Brown community honored a true champion of campus diversity, Mercedes Domenech, whose name now graces a scholarship for Latinx students. Alumni returned to the classroom for forums led by faculty, alumni, and special guests on a wide range of topics such as the lasting effects of the Vietnam War, how to leverage biotechnology in modern medicine, and reflections on the Open Curriculum. Alumni Field Day featured a brand new food-truck-themed tent as well as a steel drum and Calypso party band and, of course, the rare chance to jam out to classic Dave Binder tunes. “ It’s amazing how many memories live in people’s faces, the buildings, and the passageways across campus. I stayed up way too late, reconnected with old friends, made some new ones, and reflected on my Brown experience continues to unfold in my life. #brunopride #brownreunion #partylikeits1999 #20threunion ” Sarah Beaulieu ’99 @sarahbeaulieuspeaks “ TSA stopped me to search my bag because it was stuffed full of Meeting Street cookies. #BrownReunion #EverTrue ” Emily Gilbert ’14 @EmDwarf Giving back: a true Brown tradition Reunion at Brown is just as much about connecting with Brown’s past as its future. Year after year, Reunion classes have fortified this connection by paying it forward for the next generation of Brunonia. This year, the Reunion classes ending in 4s and 9s gave more than $12.2 million to the Brown Annual Fund. Their comprehensive gift (representing gifts to all Brown priorities over the past five years since their last reunion) totaled $142,148,517. https://www.youtube.com/embed/Fn9bNOYFlXs Campus Dance Get ready to relive one magical night More videos, please! Watch short video highlights of the "big three"—Campus Dance, Alumni Field Day, Procession—on the Brown Reunion 2019 Youtube playlist. Tags Alumni Events Related News Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President & Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 April 28, 2022 By helping educators access crucial information resources, Hintermeister taps into passions she discovered as a Brown undergrad: sharing knowledge and giving back. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President &amp; Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Reunion 2019: It’s not goodbye, it’s see you later. Open details for Reunion 2019: It’s not goodbye, it’s see you later. Bookmark this Page