Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Travel Travel Leaders With an expert Harvard faculty member or scholar leading the way, each time you travel with Harvard Alumni Travels is truly an educational experience. View the bios below to learn more about each of our study leaders. Menu Main menu Travel Overview Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List Khalil Abdur-Rashid Muslim Chaplain; Instructor on Muslim Studies; Adjunct Lecturer in Public Policy David A. Aguilar Former Director of Public Affairs and Science Information at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics Leeanne E. Alonso Conservation Scientist with Global Wildlife Conservation Alfonso Alonso Conservation Biologist with the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute Ali S. Asani Murray A. Albertson Professor of Middle Eastern Studies and Professor of Indo-Muslim and Islamic Religion and Cultures Andrew Berry Lecturer on Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Assistant Head Tutor, and Associate of Population Genetics in the Museum of Comparative Zoology Suzanne Preston Blier Allen Whitehill Clowes Professor of Fine Arts and of African and African American Studies Peter Bol Charles H. Carswell Professor of East Asian Languages and Civilizations R. Nicholas Burns Roy and Barbara Goodman Family Professor of the Practice of Diplomacy and International Relations at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government; Chair, Program on Transatlantic Relations; Director, Future of Diplomacy Project Alide Cagidemetrio Professor Emerita at the Università degli Studi di Venezia Allen Dwight Callahan Visiting Professor of Religion and Society at Harvard Divinity School Lynn Chang Concert violinist Joyce E. Chaplin James Duncan Phillips Professor of Early American History; Affiliate of the Department of History of Science Herrick Chapman Professor of History and French Studies at New York University Lizabeth Cohen Howard Mumford Jones Professor of American Studies; Harvard University Distinguished Service Professor James Costa Research Associate of the Department of Entomology in the Museum of Comparative Zoology Robert Darnton Carl H. Pforzheimer University Professor, Emeritus; University Librarian, Emeritus Philip J. Deloria Leverett Saltonstall Professor of History; Chair of the Committee on Degrees in History and Literature Keith DeStone Research Associate at Harvard’s Center for Hellenic Studies Daniel Donoghue John P. Marquand Professor of English; Continuing Education/Special Program Instructor Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Next page ›› Last page last » Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College