Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Student Alumni Association You are here: Home1 / Get Involved2 / Affinity Groups3 / Student Alumni Association PreviousNext 123456789 Student Alumni Association The Student Alumni Association (SAA) is an open-membership organization creating student awareness of Clemson Alumni Association services and how it can positively impact the student experience. Click here to Join Online Now! When you go to the page, Click Search and type in “Student Alumni Association Gift Account” and make your gift of $20. Membership to the Student Alumni Association (SAA) is $20 and $5 goes towards a gift to Clemson. If you would like to support the Student Alumni Association with a tax deductible gift, please contact Aly Friend. SAA Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631 email: saa@clemson.edu Phone: (864) 656-2345 Why join? SAA is a way for undergraduate students to enhance their experience while at Clemson University. SAA provides a way to connect and foster a lifelong bond with Clemson. By making the yearly gift ($20 initially, $10 each year after) back to Clemson University as a student, SAA members establish a lifetime of service and connection with our institution. Benefits 1. “Ever Loyal” Book – The Ever Loyal book outlines the ‘bucket list’ for Clemson students, providing a list of traditions and events every student should try to do before graduation. SAA members who complete all 30 tasks in the Ever Loyal Book are eligible to receive an Ever Loyal Medallion to wear at graduation. 2. “Ever Loyal” Card (Discount Card) – This discount card is given to all members of SAA and has a variety of discounts for local businesses which are only available to SAA members. 3. SAA T-shirt – Drop by the Alumni Center to pick up your shirt. 4. “BEAT” T-shirts – During the week prior to certain Clemson home football games, SAA members can pick up free “Beat” T-shirts to wear to the game. You will receive an email letting you know when and where you can pick up your shirt. 5. Appreciation days – In order to thank all members of SAA for their gifts to Clemson and their dedication to this university, SAC holds an annual SAA Appreciation Day in the spring for all current members. Last year, free ice cream was given away from ’55 Exchange to thank all SAA members. 6. Along with meetings to connect with SAA members throughout the year! Click here to Join Online Now! When you go to the page, Click Search and type in “Student Alumni Association” and make your gift. The cost of a membership is $20. Events 1. Welcome Back Festival – Every year, the Welcome Back festival lines the streets of downtown Clemson, to signal the beginning of a new school year. Dozens of local businesses sponsor this event to celebrate the return of students. Stop by for music, food tastings, and giveaways! 2. Ring Ceremony – Each semester, SAC hosts the Ring Ceremony to honor those Clemson students who will receive their rings. Highlighted by the history of the ring as told by Dr. Jerry Reel, and a heroic tale of the worth of the ring as told by Col. Ben Skardon, the Ring Ceremony is one of Clemson’s most coveted traditions. 3. Senior Week – Each year in the week prior to exams, SAC hosts a variety of events for graduating seniors. Events such as Rub the Rock and Senior Ball serve to congratulate the seniors on their hard work, as well as to end their time here with the best traditions Clemson has to offer. Click here to learn more about this year’s event. 4. Cocky’s Funeral – Each year in the week prior to the Clemson vs. USC football game, students gather to take part in a pep rally to get students fired up for the football game. After Cocky’s Eulogy and cremation, free chicken sandwiches are given out to attendees. This year’s event has been postponed until the Spring. 5. Master Teacher – Is the most prestigious award given to a Clemson professors that is entirely student nominated and chosen. Master Teacher Award recipients exemplify all that is desired in a professor, as well as a lifelong devotion to and passion for Clemson University. 6. Mother of the Year – Every year since 1949, Clemson University has selected a “Mother of the Year.” The Mother of the Year is someone who loves Clemson, shows a great passion for the community and lives a life that exemplifies the Clemson spirit. SAC Awards MOTY each fall during Homecoming. For more information, contact Aly Friend. Student Alumni Council The Student Alumni Council (SAC) is the 35 member leadership council that governs the Student Alumni Association. SAC is tasked with enhancing the SAA experience and educating SAA members with the opportunities they have both at Clemson and after graduation. 2021-2022 Officers President: Lane Josey Vice President: Brennan Dougherty Director of Community Outreach: Mallory Hatchett Director of Membership: Sarah Catherine O’Connell Director of Public Relations: Elli Delk Interested in Becoming Part of SAC? Application Instructions What is Student Alumni Council? The Student Alumni Council (SAC) is the 35-member leadership council for Student Alumni Association (SAA). SAC serves Clemson in many ways. SAC is chiefly responsible for planning events for SAA members, maintaining a solid SAA benefits package, securing sponsors for SAA, and working at SAA sponsored events. SAC members also participate in various Clemson Alumni Association events and assist Alumni Association staff with their programs. What Are the Requirements for Membership? SAC meets on Mondays at 9:00pm. SAC/SAA events frequently require time throughout the week for the planning and execution of these programs, such as Senior Week, SAA Member Drives, Master Teacher selection process, and the Welcome Back Festival. Other assignments will be announced throughout the year. All SAC members are expected to contribute equally to the various assignments during their term. To learn more email President Lane Josey at cljosey@g.clemson.edu. Who Can Apply? Membership on the Student Alumni Council is open to any member of the Student Alumni Association who will be enrolled at Clemson for at least 4 more remaining semesters. Members must be dedicated to working on behalf of the students and alumni of Clemson University. Membership qualifications include involvement in campus activities, good academic standing, proven leadership skills, and the ability to positively represent the Alumni Association in diverse social situations. What Does the Selection Process Entail? Interviews for the 2022 SAC new member class will take place in February 2022. Check back here and on SAC/SAA social media for updates. How Do I Apply for Student Alumni Council? Simply complete the application! If you have any questions, email our advisor, Aly Friend at alysonf@clemson.edu. For more information about the Student Alumni Council and SAA, visit https://alumni.clemson.edu/student-alumni-association/ Application and Interview Tips • Make sure you follow the directions and include all information that is requested on the application • Make sure you turn in your application BEFORE the deadline • Have someone proofread your application before you submit it • Keep a copy of your application and look over it before your interview in case you get a question related to the information that you provided in your written responses • Wear professional dress to your interview • Know the difference between Student Alumni Association and Student Alumni Council • Know the responsibilities of SAC • Know the benefits of being a member of SAA • Try to think of some ideas or suggestions on how SAA and/or SAC can be improved • Think of some ways SAA can better serve Clemson University • Be able to talk about your experience as a member of SAA • Know why you want to be a member of SAC and what you can contribute to SAC • Be able to tell us why we should choose YOU over someone else • Be familiar with Clemson’s Alumni Association • BE YOURSELF! Affinity Groups Chinese Alumni Council Clemson Black Alumni Council Clemson Corps Construction Science Management Hispanic and Latinx Alumni Council International Clemson Alumni Representatives MBA Alumni Society Student Alumni Association Young Alumni Council Clemson Clubs Volunteer Opportunities Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info