Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu All News Sub Navigation In This Section News & Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories 268 Results based on your selections. Alumni & Friends Homefield advantage September 16, 2019 Thanks to an accelerated construction timeline and the continuing support of donors, Brown's lacrosse and soccer teams will soon have a facility that rivals the best in the northeast. Read Article Open details for Homefield advantage Alumni & Friends A quest to demystify human behavior September 16, 2019 Through the power of an Undergraduate Teaching and Research Award, Eric Ingram ’21 is embarking on a once-in-a-lifetime research opportunity to uncover new insights that could help people with anxiety disorders. Read Article Open details for A quest to demystify human behavior Alumni & Friends The understudied risks of mindfulness August 19, 2019 Seeking inner peace? Brown researchers warn that mindfulness meditation isn’t as harmless as you may think. Read Article Open details for The understudied risks of mindfulness News from Brown Highlighting Brown’s distinction in entrepreneurship July 18, 2019 Offering courses, programs and support to students at every stage of the entrepreneurial process, the Nelson Center has become a nexus for entrepreneurship at Brown in just three years since launch. Read Article Open details for Highlighting Brown’s distinction in entrepreneurship News from Brown Highlighting Brown’s distinction in the arts July 18, 2019 The University is advancing its reputation for excellence in the arts by forming new partnerships with artists and scholars and making major new investments in programming and facilities. Read Article Open details for Highlighting Brown’s distinction in the arts News from Brown Highlighting Brown’s distinction in energy and environmental engineering July 18, 2019 Researchers in Brown’s School of Engineering are developing next-generation renewable energy technologies, advancing energy efficiency in computing and finding new ways to detect and clean contaminants in the environment. Read Article Open details for Highlighting Brown’s distinction in energy and environmental engineering News from Brown Highlighting Brown’s distinction in international and public affairs July 18, 2019 Brown’s scholars in international and public affairs are addressing inequality, convening conversations that move the needle on tough issues and connecting students with practitioners on the ground. Read Article Open details for Highlighting Brown’s distinction in international and public affairs Alumni & Friends One gift, 30 scholars...and counting July 9, 2019 Librarian and first-generation alumna Leonilda Gervasi, Class of 1921, left Brown a modest gift through her estate. Since then, there have been more than 30 Gervasi Scholars — and this number continues to grow. Learn more about the transformative power of planned giving. Read Article Open details for One gift, 30 scholars...and counting Alumni & Friends A gift of pride and potential June 26, 2019 With their gift, Marco Martinez ’84 and his husband Tom Styer are paying it forward for the future of LGBTQ students at Brown. Read Article Open details for A gift of pride and potential Alumni & Friends Drawing outside the lines June 14, 2019 With support from the Brown Medical Annual Fund, students like Christopher Demas ’21 are exploring their interests and pursuing innovative ideas outside the classroom. Read Article Open details for Drawing outside the lines Alumni & Friends Scholars. Investigators. Mentors. June 13, 2019 Through endowed professorships, Brown is deepening its academic bench with top-flight educators. Read Article Open details for Scholars. Investigators. Mentors. Alumni & Friends An ember catches fire: Expanding scope and resources for economics at Brown June 13, 2019 With gifts from Orlando Bravo ’92 and James and Cathleen Stone P’17, Brown’s economics department is examining wealth, poverty, and inequality from multiple perspectives. Read Article Open details for An ember catches fire: Expanding scope and resources for economics at Brown Alumni & Friends Open space, open conversations June 12, 2019 The Watson Institute continues to grow its footprint on campus as well as its intellectual community with its newest addition—Stephen Robert ’62 Hall. Read Article Open details for Open space, open conversations Alumni & Friends A promise that’s paid off June 9, 2019 In its inaugural year, The Brown Promise has already made a lasting impact on admissions, socioeconomic diversity, and the future of financial aid. Read Article Open details for A promise that’s paid off Alumni & Friends Reunion 2019: It’s not goodbye, it’s see you later. June 6, 2019 You revisited the old times. You reveled in the new. Relive the standout moments of Reunion Weekend 2019. Read Article Open details for Reunion 2019: It’s not goodbye, it’s see you later. Alumni & Friends From start(up) to finish: Improving lives through technology May 30, 2019 With their app Bolster, Eric Bai ’15.5 and Michelle Petersen ’18 are creating a better bridge between social workers and their clients. Read Article Open details for From start(up) to finish: Improving lives through technology News from Brown Forums offer insights on Open Curriculum at 50, other timely topics May 25, 2019 This year’s forums explored everything from cancer research and digital health innovations to media and political engagement, the 1968 Black Student Walkout at Brown, and patriotic philanthropy. Read Article Open details for Forums offer insights on Open Curriculum at 50, other timely topics Alumni & Friends Beyond the stacks: A distinctive collection May 20, 2019 The John Carter Brown Library wants its extraordinary collections on the history of the colonial Americas to be accessible to the world—and more scholars at Brown. Read Article Open details for Beyond the stacks: A distinctive collection Alumni & Friends Action Figure May 10, 2019 Oncologist Wafik El-Deiry knows a lot about translating basic research into patient care. He just wants to do it faster. Read Article Open details for Action Figure News from Brown $25 million Bravo Family Foundation gift will amplify Brown’s high-impact economics scholarship April 18, 2019 Generous support from the foundation will fund the creation of the Orlando Bravo Center for Economic Research, expanding the scope of research in the University’s top-ranked economics department. Read Article Open details for $25 million Bravo Family Foundation gift will amplify Brown’s high-impact economics scholarship Alumni & Friends Decoding Autism April 11, 2019 Professor Eric Morrow and his team of researchers are using genetics to speed up the diagnosis and treatment of autism in children—and to provide hope to families. Read Article Open details for Decoding Autism Alumni & Friends Meet Brown's champion for Latinx students March 29, 2019 After decades dedicated to expanding diversity in the student body, Mercedes Domenech is honored with a renamed scholarship. Read Article Open details for Meet Brown&#039;s champion for Latinx students Alumni & Friends An idea that “spoke to us”: Generous alumni add their support to new center March 15, 2019 Barry Sternlicht ’82, P’16 and Mimi Reichert Sternlicht ’83, P’16 hope their gift to a state-of-the-art health and wellness center will help Brown students to learn well and live well. Read Article Open details for An idea that “spoke to us”: Generous alumni add their support to new center Alumni & Friends Powerful lessons from expanded Fellows Program March 15, 2019 The Writing Fellows Program has been a tremendous peer-to-peer resource for Brown students and faculty since 1982. With the addition of Problem-Solving Fellows, the impact is expanding into STEM departments and beyond. Read Article Open details for Powerful lessons from expanded Fellows Program Alumni & Friends Scholars / Athletes / Leaders March 15, 2019 Achieving milestones is not unusual for Brown Athletics, which recently passed the $100 million mark in campaign fundraising and prides itself on developing lifelong leaders. Read Article Open details for Scholars / Athletes / Leaders News from Brown $3 billion BrownTogether campaign eclipses $2 billion milestone March 14, 2019 From investments in financial aid and faculty research to campus facilities and more, Brown’s most ambitious campaign in history is making an impact across the University. Read Article Open details for $3 billion BrownTogether campaign eclipses $2 billion milestone Alumni & Friends Imparting wisdom: Founding faculty member of Brown's medical school is remembered February 22, 2019 Dr. Mary B. Arnold ADE’74 hon. is honored for her lifelong commitment to mentoring physicians. Read Article Open details for Imparting wisdom: Founding faculty member of Brown&#039;s medical school is remembered Alumni & Friends Every "bit" counts: Using new forms of currency to level the playing field February 21, 2019 Grateful for his College Hill experiences, Kris Brown ’89, P’22 is paying it forward for today’s Brown students and beyond—using Bitcoin. Read Article Open details for Every &quot;bit&quot; counts: Using new forms of currency to level the playing field Alumni & Friends Strength in numbers: “First-gen” students find common ground, community February 20, 2019 Thanks to growing campus resources and an engaged group of alumni—not to mention some timely care packages—Brown’s community of first-generation students is now stronger than ever. Read Article Open details for Strength in numbers: “First-gen” students find common ground, community Alumni & Friends When we come together: Creating a new scholarship at lightning speed February 13, 2019 With resounding support from the alumni community, a new Annual Fund scholarship benefiting black students at Brown kicks off in 2019-20. Read Article Open details for When we come together: Creating a new scholarship at lightning speed News from Brown Campaign giving to support Brown Athletics surpasses $100 million January 31, 2019 With investments in coaching staff, facilities, recruiting and more, the BrownTogether campaign is significantly advancing the University’s goal of amplifying the scholar-athlete experience. Read Article Open details for Campaign giving to support Brown Athletics surpasses $100 million Alumni & Friends Doing the math: Five questions for the new director of Brown’s Data Science Initiative (DSI) January 18, 2019 From climate trackers to voting systems, online security to racial bias in policing, the DSI—through director Bjorn Sandstede—is bringing Brown’s experts together to better understand (and improve) our world. Read Article Open details for Doing the math: Five questions for the new director of Brown’s Data Science Initiative (DSI) Alumni & Friends Keeping computer science at the forefront January 17, 2019 A newly established professorship honors the 50 year legacy of Professor Savage and launches an effort to further elevate one of Brown's premier programs. Read Article Open details for Keeping computer science at the forefront News from Brown Highlighting Brown’s distinction in brain science January 10, 2019 Brown researchers are building understanding of the brain, restoring movement for patients with paralysis, unlocking the secrets of devastating diseases and devising new treatments to address brain-related disorders. Read Article Open details for Highlighting Brown’s distinction in brain science News from Brown Highlighting Brown’s distinction in educational innovation January 10, 2019 Learning at Brown is a collaborative, hands-on experience — one in which students often lead their own research projects or conduct research alongside their instructors. Read Article Open details for Highlighting Brown’s distinction in educational innovation News from Brown Highlighting Brown’s distinction in economics January 10, 2019 With an increased focus on unearthing novel data sources for analysis, Brown’s economics scholars are bringing new insights to complex problems and teaching the next generation of researchers and policymakers to do the same. Read Article Open details for Highlighting Brown’s distinction in economics News from Brown Highlighting Brown’s distinction in the humanities January 10, 2019 Humanities scholars at Brown are energizing comparative work that informs a deeper understanding of the most challenging questions of global common concern. Read Article Open details for Highlighting Brown’s distinction in the humanities News from Brown Brown plans new center, residence hall to integrate health and wellness programs December 20, 2018 With generous support from the family of Duncan MacMillan and from Barry Sternlicht and Mimi Reichert Sternlicht, and with architect selection underway, the University’s vision for an integrated, state-of-the-art health and wellness center and residence hall is on a path toward realization. Read Article Open details for Brown plans new center, residence hall to integrate health and wellness programs Alumni & Friends Bridging teaching and scholarship in the study of "difference" November 17, 2018 Pembroke postdocs bring a critical lens into classrooms and seminars, simultaneously passing it on to a new set of scholars and informing their own research. Read Article Open details for Bridging teaching and scholarship in the study of &quot;difference&quot; News from Brown $31.6 million gift will help fund performing arts center, strategic priorities for Brown November 13, 2018 The Diana Nelson and John Atwater Lobby will serve as a convening space in the University’s envisioned performing arts center, and additional funds from the couple will support the Brown Promise and Brown Annual Fund. Read Article Open details for $31.6 million gift will help fund performing arts center, strategic priorities for Brown Alumni & Friends University extends access to BrownConnect to all alumni November 1, 2018 The BrownConnect initiative and its signature digital platform have expanded student-to-alumni career connections in four years since launch, and alumni can now cultivate professional connections directly. Read Article Open details for University extends access to BrownConnect to all alumni Alumni & Friends Remembering, reflecting, reuniting: 50 years after the Black Student Walkout October 1, 2018 More than 700 alumni and guests shared joyous hugs and raised thunderous applause at Brown's largest-ever Black Alumni Reunion. Read Article Open details for Remembering, reflecting, reuniting: 50 years after the Black Student Walkout Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Pancreatic cancer pioneer Diane Simeone ’84 September 30, 2018 The surgeon and scientist reveals how Brown and the power of collaboration have influenced her groundbreaking work in clinical cancer research. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Pancreatic cancer pioneer Diane Simeone ’84 Alumni & Friends Dream Role, Dream School September 18, 2018 First-generation college student and financial aid recipient Viva Sandoval '20 shares how a role in a musical helped ground her at Brown. Read Article Open details for Dream Role, Dream School News from Brown Friedman Hall opens its doors, culminating renewal of an iconic Brown building September 5, 2018 Supported by a $24 million gift from the Richard A. and Susan P. Friedman Family Foundation, a renovation transformed the interior of the former Wilson Hall and made the building fully accessible to individuals with disabilities. Read Article Open details for Friedman Hall opens its doors, culminating renewal of an iconic Brown building Alumni & Friends Brown Traditions: Van Wickle Gates July 31, 2018 The lore of Brown’s most famous door. Read Article Open details for Brown Traditions: Van Wickle Gates News from Brown Giving to Brown tops $389 million for 2017-18, far surpassing previous record July 17, 2018 From one of the largest gifts in Brown history to Annual Fund donations from more than 32,000 donors, members of the extended Brown community supported University priorities in teaching, research, student support and more. Read Article Open details for Giving to Brown tops $389 million for 2017-18, far surpassing previous record Alumni & Friends Advocating for women’s reproductive health July 13, 2018 Decades apart, two women of Brown support the quest for quality health care through activism, research, and giving. Read Article Open details for Advocating for women’s reproductive health Alumni & Friends Reflecting on "Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion" May 30, 2018 Professor Tricia Rose PhD ’93 talks about Brown’s action plan—from the ambitious vision to specific implementation goals—and helps “unpack the invisible practices that create the exclusions” in the first place. Read Article Open details for Reflecting on &quot;Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion&quot; Alumni & Friends Brown Traditions: Josiah S. Carberry April 30, 2018 A man of mystery. A man for all seasons. A joke that went way too far. Read Article Open details for Brown Traditions: Josiah S. Carberry Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page