Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Alumni Council Executive Committee and Leadership The Executive Committee of the Alumni Council is responsible for the governance of your Alumni Association and includes leaders from all of the alumni volunteer committees. Meeting of the Alumni Council at Reunions The Executive Committee includes: The chair, vice chair, treasurer and assistant treasurer of the Alumni Council. The chairs and vice chairs of the seven standing committees, the chair and vice chair of the Princeton Prize in Race Relations, the chairs of the special and ad hoc committees, and the chair of the Princeton Women’s Network Advisory Council. Ten elected regional association officers and eight elected class officers. The president and five representatives of the Association of Princeton Graduate alumni. Two alumni currently serving as members of the Princeton University faculty. Ten appointed members at large. The presidents of the Association of Black Princeton Alumni (ABPA), Association of Latino Princeton Alumni (ALPA), the Asian American Alumni Association of Princeton (A4P) and Fund for Reunion/Princeton BTGALA. The president of the senior class, an additional undergraduate representative and a graduate student representative. The chairs of the Annual Giving Committee, the Graduate Inter-Club Council and the Board of Editorial Direction of the Princeton Alumni Weekly. Executive Committee 2021-2022 Executive Committee Meeting Schedule 2021-2022 Executive Committee Meetings Fall Meeting: September 17, 2021 Winter Meeting: January 14-15, 2022 Spring Meeting: April 1-2, 2022 Alumni Council Annual Meeting and Lunch: May 20, 2022 If you are interested in recommending Princeton alumni volunteers for consideration for appointment or election to the Executive Committee, please contact one of the officers. Committee Leadership and Membership Committee Leadership Mary J. Newburn ’97, Chair Monica Moore Thompson ’89, Vice Chair Juan E. Goytia ’00, Treasurer Adam E. Lichtenstein ’95, *10, Assistant Treasurer Alumni Council Executive Committee members Alumni Association and Council Documents The Constitution of the Alumni Association of Princeton University The By-laws of the Alumni Council of the Alumni Association of Princeton University Statement on Diversity Equity and Inclusion A Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion On January 8, 2021, the Executive Committee of the Alumni Council unanimously adopted a statement that reflects our commitment to ensure a diverse, equitable and inclusive alumni association. Read the Statement Executive Leadership Learn More President of the Alumni Association: Mary Newburn ’97 Vice President of the Alumni Association: Monica Moore Thompson ’89 Learn More John Maclean Society The John Maclean Society is named for the tenth president of Princeton (1854-1868). Founded in 1984 and revitalized in 2019, the society honors former members of the Alumni Council and former trustees of the University. Their knowledge, expertise and talent are vital to the alumni community. Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram