Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Jump to… The Importance of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Black History Month Films and Readings Create with IMPACT IMPACT 2 Related: IMPACT 2 2019 Impact Conference Curated Collection on Combating Racism and Advancing Equality Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Working Group Alumni Task Force on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Task Force Results DEI Toolkit for Alumni Leaders 50WomenAtYale150 Celebrating Coeducation at Yale Giving to Yale: Prioritizing DEI Belonging at Yale Accessibility The Importance of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At the YAA, diversity, equity, and inclusion stands at the very core of what we do, who we represent, and who we are. These are central tenets for both us and for the university. The YAA mission states that “our character, strength, and values come from our diversity and our commitment to a culture of inclusion and equity” and that we aspire to “enhance and renew the lifelong Yale experience for all alumni, whoever they are and wherever they may be.” That commitment is affirmed in our core values, which features inclusion and is joined by openness, impact, relevance, and collaboration, all terms relevant to the current discussion of justice, equality, and solidarity with our Black alumni. Below you will find more on our work in this space, as well as tools, university initiatives, and more. Renaissance & Revolution: Celebrating 50 Years of ‘the House’ The Afro-American Cultural Center at Yale University (“the House”) commemorated its 50th anniversary April 29 – May 1, 2022. Here, alumni share their meaningful memories from their time on campus and stories of how the House shaped who they are today. Read More about Renaissance & Revolution: Celebrating 50 Years of ‘the House’ Back to Top Black History Month Films and Readings Explore this collection of films and books curated by Yale Alumni Academy and visit the Yale Alumni Academy webpage for webinars and programs being hosted throughout the month. Back to Top Create with IMPACT This newest entry in the Yale Alumni Association’s IMPACT series builds on the 2019 IMPACT Conference and 2021 virtual event series, both of which featured alumni thought leaders from all walks of life addressing ways that Yale and Yalies can lead the way in embracing and advocating for DEI. Create with IMPACT turns this conversation into an experience that brings words, music, and more to the Yale alumni community and invites you to explore creative work and the impact it has on your life. Back to Top IMPACT 2 In the two years since our first IMPACT conference, the world has undergone a pandemic revealing social inequities, a movement for anti-racism, and challenges to democracy itself. The 2021 IMPACT series, IMPACT 2: Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, reflects the the urgency of our times. We want to use this series to offer the Yale family a way forward, utilizing the insights and expertise of Yale alumni and faculty already making an impact in the world on these crucial matters. Back to Top Related: IMPACT 2 IMPACT 2 Event Video Showcase IMPACT 2 Program IMPACT 2 series to advance DEI initiatives, provide the tools to make a difference Back to Top YAA DEI Update: September 2021 In our September update, YAA Executive Director Weili Cheng ’77 reflects on the the YAA’s and Yale's efforts to advance diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging and notes the association's DEI programming and offerings of the past year. Read More about YAA DEI Update: September 2021 Back to Top 2019 Impact Conference Advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion through social change Impact Conference explores idea of personal engagement to effect societal change Keynote address: Cornell Brooks '90 JD Back to Top Curated Collection on Combating Racism and Advancing Equality While hardly exhaustive, this compendium – “Read, Watch, Listen, and Learn: A Curated Collection on Combating Racism and Advancing Equality” – includes YAA initiatives and highlights Yale alumni and faculty whose expertise and actions further the ideals of diversity, equity, inclusion, and justice. Back to Top Progress in Building a Stronger and More Inclusive Yale In this October 2021 diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging update, President Salovey ’86 PhD shares the work done in regard to understanding Yale’s history, building on current activities, and making Yale more welcoming. Read More about Progress in Building a Stronger and More Inclusive Yale Back to Top Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Working Group In January 2018, upon the completion of the work of the Alumni Task Force on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, the DEI Working Group was formed to follow up on selected recommendations from the report. The working group, whose term runs through June 2019, is charged with pursuing the following projects, each based on recommendations in the Task Force’s report: Organizing events branded as Community Impact Initiatives to bring together alumni and civic leaders to discuss solutions to community challenges. Continuing learning events with an expanded focus on additional DEI themes. Developing best practices for building diverse leadership pipelines for the YAA, Yale College Classes, regional clubs, interest groups, the Yale Alumni Fund, and Yale’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and professional schools. Developing ways to engage young alumni and alumni of color, including building alumni-to-student connections around DEI. Back to Top Summary of YAA DEI Activities: 2018-19 Read More February 2019 DEI Working Group Update Read More Back to Top September 2018 DEI Working Group Update Read More May 2018 DEI Working Group Update Read More Back to Top Alumni Task Force on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Alumni Task Force on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) was formed in 2016 at the request of the Yale Alumni Association Board of Governors to do the following: Provide leadership on the development of diversity and inclusion strategies in existing alumni programming. Leverage all forms of diversity to strengthen the alumni network. Make recommendations for potential new programming and initiatives that might be offered to the Yale alumni community. Back to Top Task Force Results Final Report and Recommendations Summary Report and Recommendations Task Force Advisory Committee Members Back to Top Standing for What Is Right We at the YAA stand in solidarity with those calling for change. We stand with the Black community, our alumni who are hurting, and everyone who stands up against racism, hatred, intolerance, and injustice. Read More about Standing for What Is Right Back to Top DEI Toolkit for Alumni Leaders The YAA seeks to make all alumni feel welcomed and included in the alumni community, to include Yale alumni of all backgrounds in leadership roles, and to provide a culture of respect and courtesy. In this toolkit, you'll find more on diversity, equity, and inclusion, how to promote DEI and DEI efforts, committing to a culture that promotes and models the ideals of DEI, outreach to alumni of diverse backgrounds, and more. >> Go to the DEI Toolkit Back to Top 50WomenAtYale150 In 2020, Yale celebrated 50 years of women in Yale College and 150 years of women at Yale. Join us as we look back on these milestones, celebrated by a mix of on-campus and online events commemorating coeducation at Yale. Back to Top Celebrating Coeducation at Yale 150th Anniversary Celebration of Women at Yale: A Virtual Symposium 50th Anniversary Celebration of Women at Yale College Digital Version of The 50th Anniversary Written History Project Unveiled Back to Top Giving to Yale: Prioritizing DEI Yale is committed to the principles of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI). Your giving advances these core values by helping to bring people from diverse backgrounds to campus, support their work, and enable them to thrive here. Learn more at the Giving to Yale Priorities page. Back to Top We Are Yale: By Hugo Perez '93 Back to Top Belonging at Yale Belonging at Yale serves as a central location for student, faculty, and staff resources that deepen a sense of belonging at Yale and strengthen diversity, equity, and inclusion in our community. The site offers: Information on our relevant policies, programs, and centers, and important reports and statements Resources for students, faculty, and staff who need guidance or support, or want to discuss or report discrimination, harassment, or sexual misconduct Ways to engage in efforts to create a more inclusive, equitable, and welcoming community, including student and staff organizations An opportunity to propose additional ways to strengthen a sense of belonging at Yale To learn more, visit the Belonging at Yale website. Back to Top Yale DEI Plans In a coordinated effort across the university, each school and administrative division has developed a five-year action plan to support and enhance DEI and belonging. Plans give specific attention to the experiences of staff, faculty, alumni, and students, especially people of color. Read More about Yale DEI Plans Back to Top Accessibility The Yale Alumni Association is committed, as per the Yale mission, to “the free exchange of ideas in an ethical, interdependent, and diverse community.” That diversity includes all people regardless of ability or disability. Websites and web applications are integral to the university’s academic and administrative work and the YAA’s mission and commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. As such, Yale and the YAA are committed to making information, programs, and activities on its websites and web applications accessible to people with disabilities through the Yale Web Accessibility Policy. To meet the requirements of the policy, alumni.yale.edu and all university websites should comply with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (“WCAG”) 2.0 Level AA. To see answers to common questions about accessibility, visit the Frequently Asked Questions page on the university’s Accessibility page. To report an accessibility issue on a Yale website or web application, please use the Accessibility Comments Form. The YAA’s commitment to accessibility extends to physical spaces as well as digital. If you need an accommodation of any kind for a YAA event, on campus or off, please let us know in advance via your event registration. For questions, please reach out to the relevant YAA staff member or call us at 203-432-2586. More information can be found in the Help Center. Back to Top Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page