Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Ways to Volunteer Volunteer Leadership Awards and Recognition Volunteer Resources CUeLINKS Share your knowledge. Join now McGraw Tower, Uris Library and Ho Plaza in fall, shot from Barnes Hall. Photo: Lindsay France/Cornell Marketing CUeLINKS versus LinkedIN Cornell acknowledges the brand recognition and user activity of other platforms such as LinkedIn and continues to see it as a viable platform for Cornell connections; however, CUeLINKS remains Cornell’s university-wide online knowledge-sharing platform. Learn More Jason Koski/Cornell Marketing Group Connect with Cornellians today! CUeLINKs (Cornell University: Learning, Informing, Networking=Knowledge Sharing) is Cornell’s exclusive university-wide knowledge sharing platform, connecting students and alumni & alumni to alumni to get the most out of the powerful Cornell community. Sign up now to have access to the alumni job board, post unpaid student internships, engage in career-focused discussion boards, and make valuable connections with both students and fellow alumni alike. You’ll have access to a Cornell network designed exclusively for you! Please reach out to cuelinks@cornell.edu with any questions. C U there! Knowledge seekers (students) can connect with knowledge sharers (alumni or peers) to learn about many topics, such as: Career or industry trends Career readiness Job search experience Job shadowing Applying to graduate school Navigating a Ph.D. Adjusting to life after school Gender equality in the workplace Work-life balance Navigating the Cornell experience Diversity at Cornell First-generation student experiences Transfer student experience International student experiences Students need information that others have: on navigating Cornell, deciding on career paths, and making life choices. Cornell’s alumni network is a significant benefit and resource for students. CUeLINKS offers an advisory board model for personal and professional knowledge sharing. Share knowledge CUeLINKs a university-wide knowledge sharing platform. Cornell students can benefit greatly from your guidance as a part of the Cornell network. Volunteer your time based on your schedule and interests. Start making connections today Plan your Reunion Reunion has something for everyone. Browse events and create a custom itinerary to make the most of your weekend on the Hill! Can't make it in person? Choose the Virtual Reunion package during registration and get access to featured livestream events. Make your schedule Ho Plaza looking south from atop McGraw Tower. Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022