Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Commencement Procession It’s the oldest and grandest Brown tradition. Breadcrumb Home Events Sub Navigation In This Section Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts https://www.youtube.com/embed/oVRCSRfCM0I Commencement Procession Lest you’ve forgotten, you're a Brunonian for life. Here’s how Procession works: Alumni gather along the sidewalk in front of University Hall and along both sides of George Street. See the map at right for an idea of where your Reunion class will form. Look for your class signs. The procession steps off through Faunce Arch promptly at 9:45 am with the chief marshal leading the graduating seniors down the hill. The alumni division steps off at 10:05 am, falls in behind the faculty, and proceeds down the hill toward the Van Wickle Gates. The alumni line the street, poised to cheer on the new graduates, who are beginning their own lifelong connection to the Brown alumni community. The new graduates cheer for the alumni... ...and the alumni, in turn, cheer for the graduates, who are en route to the First Baptist Church to begin their own lifelong connection to the Brown alumni community. After the graduates pass through, alumni join the Procession again. Thus the famous “inverted sock” is formed. What does it mean to “unroll the sock”? It means that the oldest alumni come face-to-face with the youngest alumni. We see the continuity of our alma mater in each other. A note on weather: Only the severest of storms keeps the Commencement Procession from happening. In the case of inclement weather, the Brown storm plan will be in effect; check the Brown homepage for announcements. Related Links Commencement Weekend Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Commencement Procession Open details for Commencement Procession Bookmark this Page