Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. New Graduates New Graduates right arrow down arrow BEARCAT FOR LIFE Welcome to the Alumni Family! Hey Class of 2022, congratulations on joining the family of more than 327,000+ Bearcats. On-campus or on the other side of the globe, you can have fun while making an invaluable contribution to the life of UC. As your relationship with the university evolves along with our life’s journey, we encourage you to stay involved, be a champion and advocate for your school, and consider supporting the UC causes that you’re most passionate about, however it makes sense for you. No matter what, remember that your Alumni Association is here to help you enjoy a great alumni experience. Again, congratulations from all of your fellow Bearcats. We’re thrilled to welcome you into the UC Alumni Family! Jennifer L. Heisey '97 Chief Alumni Officer Check out the Class of 2022 Page! Connect with other Bearcats on Bearcats Connect, the official networking platform of the UC Alumni Association. Save the date to celebrate with Bearcats of all ages as UC host USF for Homecoming on Saturday, Oct. 8, 2022! Fill out this form to claim your Class of 2022 Magnet! Only valid for Class of 2022 graduates. Check out all the great benefits and services the UC Alumni Association has to offer, and show off your Red and Black with pride. Choose one of our favorite University of Cincinnati diploma frames, then customize and make it your own! “Thy loyal children” of the University of Cincinnati — its living alumni — are 327,000+ strong. Get involved with a network today! Benefits right arrow down arrow Alumni Insurance Program: Get discounted rates on life insurance, dental and vision coverage, health insurance and long-term care. GEICO: Save even more on car insurance with a special Alumni Association discount. Bearcats Connect: Network with fellow UC alumni, students, faculty and staff 50%: The discount UC graduates within the last 5 years receive on UC Football and Basketball season tickets. #GoBearcats Show Your Bearcat for Life Pride right arrow down arrow Show the world you’re a Bearcat for Life with exclusive UC alumni merchandise from our online UC Alumni Team Store. Get Involved right arrow down arrow Look, we know you are a proud Bearcat alumnus. You've already checked out our upcoming virtual events AND you’re killing it as a UC Influencer. But there are other ways to get involved and show your UC pride. Shall we list the ways? Connect with other alumni around the world. Give back. Your support of UC changes lives. Update your information, so we know to invite you to some really cool UC parties. Have other ideas on how to get involved? Email us. We love hearing from you! Update Your Information right arrow down arrow We get it! Starting a new life post-grad requires a lot of moving around. Between the new job and maybe a new city, you might've forgotten to keep us updated. It's okay, we won't take it personally. We’d love to hear about all your new and exciting adventures after UC. Make sure to keep us in the know about what’s going on in your life by updating your information below. Also, when you do you'll be entered to win a free diploma frame (let's face it, we all know that piece of paper is just lying around collecting dust). Find a Network right arrow down arrow We know making new connections is not always an easy feat. Luckily, you have a secret weapon. Us. The UC Alumni Association. With more than 327,000 UC alumni living throughout the United States and across the world, we're here to help you ease the transition to a new career, relocate to a new city or country, catch up with old friends, seek professional advice, or just keep up with goings-on at your alma mater. So, never fear! We're here for you. Don't know where to start? We've gathered some alumni networks you may be interested in: · College Networks: Want to stay connected with the college and professors who truly made an impact on you? Our college alumni networks provide opportunities for alumni to get involved with their specific UC college. From networking events to professional development, there are many ways to stay connected. · National Networks: Did you know there are 32 Bearcat networks around the country? Find a group of Bearcats in your new city, and Cincinnati will never feel far away. #ThyLoyalChildren · Interest & Affinity Networks: Were you involved in student organizations while at UC? Looking to connect with other alumni who share your interests? Check out our many alumni affinity networks – such as UCYP and Women of UC – to get involved with like-minded Bearcats. Questions? Email the UC Alumni Association or call 513-556-4344. University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan St. Cincinnati, OH 45219-0024 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan St. Cincinnati, OH 45219-0024 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) alumni@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top