Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Gift Planning Since 1926, our organization has led all giving to Harvard College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, and more. Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Through gift planning vehicles such as bequests and life income gifts, you can address personal financial goals and make a meaningful gift to Harvard. Individuals who have planned a bequest or life income gift are welcomed into the John Harvard Society. Many alumni have joined—will you? Featured in Planned Giving February 10, 2022 Alumni Profiles Transforming Opportunities Deacon Turner ’91 shares how his journey out of poverty to the Yard inspires him to do what he can for students like him to thrive March 12, 2021 Alumni Profiles Showing Her Commitment Melissa Blair Fisher ’94, MBA ’98 always knew she wanted to make a bequest to Harvard. Her 25th Reunion inspired her to make it happen. March 11, 2021 Alumni Profiles A Consummate Volunteer Charlie Egan ’54, P’86, ’83 has never stopped being a champion for Harvard. Contact Planned Giving Email: ogp@harvard.edu Phone: 617-496-3205 or 1-800-VERITAS (ask for the Office of Gift Planning) Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College