Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Virtual Lunch Club Speaker Series You are here: Home1 / Uncategorized2 / Virtual Lunch Club Speaker Series Join the Clemson Alumni Association for our second Virtual Lunch Speaker Series! We saw such great success last year that we are bringing the series back again with an all new set of speakers and topic areas. The goal of this speaker series is to provide a forum for Clemson to share its message with alumni and friends of Clemson all over the country. It is both a networking opportunity and a chance to learn what is going on in the academic, athletic and research fields at our school. Membership is open to all that share an interest in Clemson. All proceeds from these events will be a gift to the Clemson Fund where the need is the greatest. As we launch our 2021-2022 membership drive, we extend to you a sincere invitation to join us! Please mark your calendars for our first session: Mark your calendars for Wednesday, January 19 from 12:00-1:00pm ET and join us for a lunch conversation with the Women’s Lacrosse coach, Allison Kwolek. As one of the newest sports on campus, learn about their inaugural signing class, the coaching team and plans for the first official season. CLICK HERE to register for this event! Save the Date Wednesday, January 19, 2022 – Women’s Lacrosse – Allison Kwolek Spring 2022 – TBD Once you have purchased your season pass membership, a Zoom link will be sent to you for each individual event. For more information about how to get involved with the Clemson Alumni Association or a Clemson Club in your area – visit: alumni.clemson.edu or find us on social media @clemsonalumni. Click here to become a Member Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info