Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Alumni Association Toggle navigation Site Menu Membership Join Today Renew Your Membership Membership Overview Why Become a Member? Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks Alumni Directory My oneFSU Dashboard Students Student Alumni Association Join SAA SAA Membership Perks My oneFSU Dashboard Honors Alumni Ambassadors Award Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Legacy Scholarship Grads Made Good The Inspire Award Community Alumni Networks Alumni Career Services Events Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Alumni Travel Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Webinar Resources Virtual Alumni Resources Support Join, Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Give to the Legacy Scholarship Give to the FSU Alumni Association Give to the FSU Alumni Association Endowment Give to FSU Academic Programs Purchase a Westcott Plaza Brick Support the Alumni Ambassadors Fund About About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Annual Highlights Alumni Center & Events Employment Frequently Asked Questions Financial Information Map and Directions Sponsorship Opportunities FSU Alumni Center Toggle navigation SECTION MENU Alumni Center & Events Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Maps & Directions Frequently Asked Questions How do I reserve the Alumni Center? Please contact the Traditions Catering Office at 850.645.9255 or traditions-catering@aramark.com to determine availability. How far in advance should I reserve the Alumni Center for my wedding or party or event? It's never too early to reserve the venue. We recommend reserving as soon as you have a date for your event. Please visit the Policies & Procedures page for more information Do you offer any discounts for Florida State students or Alumni Association members? We are currently unable to offer student discounts. We offer a 10% discount for Alumni Assocation members. Do I have to use your caterer? Yes. The Florida State University Alumni Association has a partnership with Traditions Catering for all events. All catering for events at the Alumni Center must be through Traditions Catering. How many people can you accommodate for a wedding, party, or meeting? It largely depends on the venue you are interested in renting and the type of event. However, we can accommodate anything from a five-person meeting to 300+ guests for a standing room or theater-style seating. Please visit our Room/Rates webpage for more information. Do you offer any discounts for Florida State University Faculty and Staff? For events on behalf of Florida State University, no rental fee will be required for an event space M-F before 5 p.m.. After 5 p.m. there is a 50 % discount for event rental space. Personal events for faculty and staff will not receive a discount. All events, no matter the date, time, or university affiliation, will be subject to a $250 set-up fee. What is the alcohol policy for events at the Alumni Center? Our policy is consistent with all applicable State laws regarding alcohol consumption. Guests have the option of utilizing our full bar service through Traditions Catering. Can I arrange for a tasting of the specific foods that I am interested in having at my reception? Yes, of course we would love for you to sample foods that you are interested in having. A credit card will be needed at the tasting and will only be charged in the event Traditions Catering does not cater your event. What is the average price range? We take pride in working within our clients' budget. Costs are itemized depending on food selections. Contact Traditions Catering at traditions-catering@aramark.com for menus and to get started on your proposal. How involved is the caterer? Traditions Catering is a full-service caterer. Traditions Catering will provide assistance with everything from planning, production, and execution of any event. We will exceed your expectations with a team of experienced full-time event planners, local contacts and resources, and a passionate culinary team. Do you bake wedding cakes? No, we do not bake wedding cakes, however we know several reputable bakers to refer you to. What if I am looking to rent an event space but do not need catering services? You are more than welcome to book the space at it’s rental rate. An additional $250 set up fee will be applied to all events without catering services. Visit the Policies & Procedures page for more information. OFFICIAL PARTNERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Their generous support allows the FSU Alumni Association to provide programs, services and events to you. MEMBERS Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Member Perks Reward Zone Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks STUDENTS Student Alumni Association Join SAA Benefits of SAA Membership Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks HONORS Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award COMMUNITY Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Events Football HQ Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Travel Programs ABOUT US About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Sponsorship Opportunities ALUMNI CENTER Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions FSU Alumni Association 1030 W. Tennessee St. Tallahassee, FL 32304 Email Us (850) 644-2761 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright Close