Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Brown Annual Fund Breadcrumb Home All News All News Sub Navigation In This Section News & Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories 19 Results based on your selections. Alumni & Friends 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day April 14, 2022 Want to help make this Brunonians Pay It Forward Day our biggest yet? Here’s how you can get involved and spread the word about this giving day. Read Article Open details for 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day Alumni & Friends Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 April 3, 2022 This year’s giving day saw the Brown community help raise more than $2.6 million for the Brown Annual Fund. Read Article Open details for Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 Alumni & Friends Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign November 2, 2021 Having reached its target more than a year ahead of schedule, the University will continue raising funds for student scholarships and faculty research, while establishing new goals in the months to come. Read Article Open details for Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign Alumni & Friends Giving Tuesday 2021 | November 30 October 11, 2021 Brunonians from across the globe came together to support the people, programs, and promise of Brown. Read Article Open details for Giving Tuesday 2021 | November 30 Alumni & Friends What it means to wear the white coat September 22, 2021 Brown welcomes its newest class of medical students with its annual white coat ceremony. Read Article Open details for What it means to wear the white coat Alumni & Friends For one young alum, the impact of financial aid continues to reverberate June 16, 2021 Financial aid has the power to open the door to more opportunities. For Gabriel Reyes ’18, it opened up a whole new universe of opportunities. Read Article Open details for For one young alum, the impact of financial aid continues to reverberate Alumni & Friends Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2021 March 26, 2021 On May 13, the Brown community came together to support all that Brown makes possible. Read Article Open details for Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2021 Alumni & Friends Saving a "lost" summer: Reinventing experiential learning at Brown March 19, 2021 The pandemic robbed many students of their summer internships and research opportunities. With the SPRINT program, the University created hundreds of new opportunities — and a new way to offer learning beyond the classroom. Read Article Open details for Saving a &quot;lost&quot; summer: Reinventing experiential learning at Brown Alumni & Friends Across the curriculum, diversity courses are teaching essentials skills December 8, 2020 Through its diversity and inclusion action plan, Brown is bringing topics on race, gender, and inequality into classrooms across a variety of departments. Read Article Open details for Across the curriculum, diversity courses are teaching essentials skills Alumni & Friends Brown's Giving Tuesday 2020 | December 1 November 2, 2020 With more than $4 million raised by 4,000+ supporters, the Brown community helped make Giving Tuesday 2020 one of our biggest giving days ever. Read Article Open details for Brown&#039;s Giving Tuesday 2020 | December 1 Alumni & Friends Brown welcomes incoming medical students with White Coat Ceremony October 27, 2020 The Warren Alpert Medical School celebrated the MD Class of 2024 with a virtual event as first-year medical students donned their white coats. Read Article Open details for Brown welcomes incoming medical students with White Coat Ceremony Alumni & Friends What financial aid makes possible September 30, 2020 Talent. Determination. Leadership. With expanded support for financial aid, we're propelling budding leaders forward and helping students become who they were meant to be. Read Article Open details for What financial aid makes possible Alumni & Friends Combating anti-Black racism through education, conversation, and scholarship aid September 29, 2020 As part of the BrownTogether campaign, the University community is supporting a range of diversity and inclusion initiatives that further Brown's long-standing leadership in confronting widespread racial injustice. Read Article Open details for Combating anti-Black racism through education, conversation, and scholarship aid Alumni & Friends How you can help Brown students in this emergency — and beyond May 29, 2020 Amidst the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), alumni and friends have stepped forward to meet our students' immediate needs. But we know that economic hardships will continue to increase in the months to come. Here's how you can help. Read Article Open details for How you can help Brown students in this emergency — and beyond Alumni & Friends Following a code September 27, 2019 By coming to Brown to embrace new challenges — like combining computer science with humanities studies through the Open Curriculum — Turkish student Melis Gökalp ’21 is on a path to improve the lives of those in her home country. Read Article Open details for Following a code Alumni & Friends A promise that’s paid off June 9, 2019 In its inaugural year, The Brown Promise has already made a lasting impact on admissions, socioeconomic diversity, and the future of financial aid. Read Article Open details for A promise that’s paid off Alumni & Friends Powerful lessons from expanded Fellows Program March 15, 2019 The Writing Fellows Program has been a tremendous peer-to-peer resource for Brown students and faculty since 1982. With the addition of Problem-Solving Fellows, the impact is expanding into STEM departments and beyond. Read Article Open details for Powerful lessons from expanded Fellows Program Alumni & Friends When we come together: Creating a new scholarship at lightning speed February 13, 2019 With resounding support from the alumni community, a new Annual Fund scholarship benefiting black students at Brown kicks off in 2019-20. Read Article Open details for When we come together: Creating a new scholarship at lightning speed Alumni & Friends Dream Role, Dream School September 18, 2018 First-generation college student and financial aid recipient Viva Sandoval '20 shares how a role in a musical helped ground her at Brown. Read Article Open details for Dream Role, Dream School Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown Annual Fund Open details for Brown Annual Fund Bookmark this Page