Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month Pride Month UC Alumni Association » Get Involved » College Networks » A&S Alumni Set Navigation title in component Update Your Info College Networks A&S Alumni Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups African American Alumni Affiliate 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids College of Arts and Sciences Alumni Welcome, A&S Alumni As a graduate of the College of Arts and Sciences, you are automatically a member of the A&S Alumni Network. This includes a global community of more than 57,000 College of Arts and Sciences alumni and 315,000 UC Alumni. We are here to provide you with a variety of opportunities to stay engaged with your alma mater. From leadership opportunities to happy hours, we have something for everyone. No matter your age, degree, profession or stage of life, we want you to be involved! We hope you will keep your contact information updated so we can continue to share the latest college and department news, and also tell us what great things you’ve done with your degree by sharing your story. Check this page often for college news, events and volunteer opportunities Get Involved As alumni, there are many opportunities for you to stay connect with the College of Arts and Science students, faculty and staff. Read on to find the program and events that match your interests! The College of Arts and Sciences offers several college-wide volunteer opportunities for alumni. Learn more about A&S volunteer opportunities. Update your info to ensure you're the first to hear about A&S events. Give to A&S. A&S Alumni Events VIEW UPCOMING EVENTS Virtual Town Hall A&S Dean Valerio Ferme gives an update on the state of the college and how A&S has been tackling the challenges of COVID-19. You will also hear from Associate Dean for Inclusive Excellence and Community Partnerships, Littisha A. Bates, who is leading the college in our implementation of college wide equity and inclusion policies. A&S ALUMNI AWARDS Each year the college honors exceptional alumni who have made a mark on their professions, communities and UC. Honorees are nominated by their fellow alumni and chosen by the college. Four awards are formally celebrated as part of our newly redesigned – A Night with A&S. A&S ALUMNI BOARDS The college is fortunate to have two boards and a variety of volunteer opportunities for its alumni. The Dean’s Advisory Board is made up of both alumni and community leaders to advise the Dean regarding community engagement, alumni engagement, and marketing and communication. The A&S Alumni Activity Board and its two committees guide alumni programming focusing on community engagement, professional development, social activities and student engagement. We hope you consider volunteering for one of these great opportunities! If you are interested in getting involved with the A&S Alumni Board, contact Maggie Ibrahim-Taney. A&S Alumni News UC Foundation names Outstanding Philanthropic Volunteer Award... April 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati Foundation recognized its Outstanding Philanthropic Volunteer Award honorees at the George Rieveschl Recognition Dinner in April 2022. This was the first time in two years the event has been held. UC grad finds passion in telling Black women’s stories April 19, 2022 When Brande Victorian changed her UC major to journalism, she found what she says was “the perfect fit.” The 2007 graduate from the College of Arts and Sciences took her skills and ran with them, carving a career in the competitive field of writing that has taken her from medical publishing to an editor’s role at a leading magazine for Black women. Currently the senior editor of entertainment for Essence magazine, Victorian was honored this month with the Outstanding Young Alumni Award from the A&S Alumni Association. The award is conferred annually on an A&S grad under age 40 with significant achievements in their field, and active involvement with the university. Prior to becoming a part of the Essence family, Victorian contributed to a variety of different publications, including Clutch Magazine, Vibe Vixen and Madame Noire. She has been profiled by Pose magazine, and featured in Jezebel and on the talk show The Real. Her passion for writing the stories of Black women’s lives continues in her role at Essence. As a Black woman herself, Victorian shares the story of who inspires her, how she was able to become a journalist despite obstacles, and advice for young Black women starting out in journalism. A ‘Bearcat for life’ leads an ongoing quest for fairness in the... March 24, 2022 N. John Bey heads up Bey & Associates, a 13-attorney catastrophic injury practice with offices in Atlanta and Cincinnati. He is also parliamentarian at the American Association for Justice, the world’s largest trial bar, which seeks to promote a fair and effective civil justice system. Debug Query for this Find the College of Arts and Sciences on Social Media Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Anna Gormley, Bus '17 Program Director of Alumni & Donor Experience, College of Allied Health Sciences and James L. Winkle College of Pharmacy 513-556-3821 gormlead@foundation.uc.edu University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top