Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Date May 3, 2021 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Reunion, with a 2021 Twist With events both inspired by reunions past plus brand-new digital extras, Brown’s 2021 Virtual Reunion Weekend bypassed all geographic boundaries and headed straight into the living rooms of thousands of alumni around the world. "The plus of a virtual reunion is I can listen and dance to Dave Binder with my family in our living room in Cape Town with nostalgic memories," said Czerina Patel '96. A mix of performances, family fun, and fresh new digital experiences brought Brunonians together from far and wide to re-connect with Brown and with each other April 30-May 2, 2021. Reunion by the numbers 27 exclusive class events including trivia nights and mixologist sessions 1991 class with highest attendance ~3,000 approximate number of total registrants 36 th anniversary for Dave Binder's repeat Reunion performances 79 Degrees a beautiful day for May 2 Commencement 6,700 miles farthest alumni (from campus) It was a year of firsts in many ways: the first time Reunion has been 100% online and 100% free, and it was also the first-ever combined Reunion, welcoming a record-breaking number of Brown alumni from both the 2020 and 2021 reunion cycles since the COVID-19 pandemic put a halt to in-person festivities last year. With double the classes as a regular Reunion, participants had the rare opportunity to come together with Brown grads from either the year before or after they graduated. Classes ending in 0, 1, 5, or 6 and recent graduates enjoyed a variety of new activities and fun “extras” like Brown-inspired food and cocktail recipes, custom Zoom backgrounds, Spotify playlists, coloring pages for the kids, and more. Getting in the Reunion spirit https://www.youtube.com/embed/LS1PZhP7Izc WATCH: Reunion Kickoff Hear from alumni and University leaders about their favorite Reunion memories, enjoy views of campus, and relish some Brown nostalgia. As seen on social Over the course of the weekend, alumni shared how they made their reunion experience their own. The social media highlights included @gschauf who cooked up some Geoff's-inspired Phillipe & Jorge sandwiches: "When COVID keeps your college reunion virtual so you can’t get to @geoffspvd for your favorite sandwich, try to make it at home. (We’ll see you soon for two real Phillipe & Jorges, @geoffspvd!)" And @lauraatvmv who rallied for Unity Funk Nite: "...No video because I woke up late and don’t have any makeup on and my hair’s a mess (video on and HEYYYY girl!!! Omg Hi! How you doing yay yesss wooooo!)...I’ll be low-key it’s not my reunion year (EVERYBODY FUNK NIGHT MY PLACE IN MANILA OPEN BAR POOLSIDE LESSGOOOOOO!!!!!) 🤣🤣🤣 god that was fun. #funknightforlife #evertrue" Scroll to your heart's content. Follow along as alumni shared the #BrownReunion experience in real-time. Virtual Reunion flipbook 1 of 17 VIRTUAL CLASS LOUNGES | With online class lounges open on Friday and Saturday evenings, alumni dropped in and moved around an immersive virtual “Brown” space, bumping into friends and classmates in real-time. 2 of 17 UNITY CELEBRATION | Alumni representing each of Brown’s alumni affinity groups came together to celebrate outstanding members of the Class of 2021 and enjoy musical performances by student groups Shades of Brown and Fusion Dance Company during this Friday night event. President Christina H. Paxson, Brown Alumni Association President-Elect Carlos Lejnieks ’00, and emcee Alexandra Ocampo ’06 also congratulated the graduating seniors, welcoming them as soon-to-be alumni and thanking them for all they’ve done to unify the Brown community. 3 of 17 Shades of Brown, a multi-cultural, multi-ethnic, co-ed a capella group that performs songs rooted in the African American tradition, performed a captivating rendition of Beyonce's "Crazy in Love." 4 of 17 Fusion Dance Company, Brown's oldest student-run dance company, also performed at the Friday Night Unity Celebration. 5 of 17 WEEKEND SOUNDTRACK—The weekend was fully stocked with great music, including a Friday night performance from Campus Dance favorites Lawrence the Band. The eight-piece soul/pop group includes seven Brown alums who each shared a bit about their days on campus in between songs. With a set that traced the group’s timeline — from their beginnings at College Hill house parties to their current status selling out shows across the country — alumni heard early favorites like “Wash away” and “Do you want to do nothing with me” before newer songs like “Freckles” and the band’s version of “A Little Help from my Friends.” 6 of 17 A FEELING OF TOGETHERNESS- At Saturday's All-Class Memorial Service, a longstanding Reunion tradition, University Chaplain Janet Cooper Nelson encouraged the Brown community to "Hold tight, Brunonia, sing loudly, know all the verses or none, but sing anyway. Love is all that matters." 7 of 17 The Memorial service included instrumental music selections from University Organist Mark Steinbach and from current Brown students Tessa Devoe '23, Rohun Rajpal '22, and Nicholas Huang '23 MD'27, as well as select readings by Brown Alumni Association President Sara Leppo Savage ’90, P’22; Brown Alumni Association Treasurer Jill U. Javier '07; and Max Clermont '11 MPH'12. 8 of 17 PEMBROKE REUNION | On Saturday morning, women of Pembroke College enjoyed a rare chance to reminisce about their days as students and catch up on what they’re doing today. Some participants planned ahead and baked the famous Cranberry Coffee Cake that they once enjoyed on campus so they could dine virtually together. 9 of 17 BINDER IS BACK! | Bruno Family Fun got off to a great start with some classic Dave Binder tunes. In between performing favorites like “Unicorn Song” and “Fast Food,” Dave displayed his collection of Brown event t-shirts and shared some memories from his annual visits to College Hill, beginning with a 1986 performance on Wriston Quad. 10 of 17 DIGITAL KEEPSAKES | Saturday afternoon, families commemorated this year’s unique Reunion with original cartoon-like caricatures during a face-to-face meetup with a caricature artist. Each family received a digital copy to keep and share. 11 of 17 A MOMENT OF MYSTERY | Later on Saturday afternoon, magician Andrew Evans '09 wowed a crowd of 150 alumni families in a magic show from a hidden magic theater. 12 of 17 COMMENCEMENT FORUMS | From breaking glass ceilings to returning to Earth amidst a pandemic to her mentors at Brown, Friday’s forum with astronaut Dr. Jessica Meir ’99 and President Christina H. Paxson covered a lot of ground—and space. Meir made history in 2019 as part of the first all-female space walk, and is set to make more history as part of NASA’s Artemis program, which will see humanity return to the Moon for the first time in half a century. 13 of 17 During the Ruth B. Sauber Distinguished Alumni Lectureship hosted by the Brown Medical Alumni Association, Dr. Kathleen Ferrer '95 discussed lessons she learned from her on-the-ground experience treating HIV in sub-Saharan Africa. “How did the world turn it around so that now HIV is considered a chronic disease?…What happened here to reverse this trend? To bend the curve?” she asked. “On the global stage, one of the key interventions was financial investment and global coordination of health services.” 14 of 17 CLASSES MIX IT UP | This year’s 27 class events were a great opportunity for alumni all over the world to rebuild their Brown connections. Many classes chose to put the knowledge of their fellow alumni to the test by hosting Brown-themed trivia events like the Class of 1996's 25th Reunion, pictured here. Other classes mixed it up with a top-shelf bonding experience: a mixologist helped participants concoct a special Brown-named cocktail and mocktail. 15 of 17 UNITY FUNK NITE | On Saturday night, alumni gathered to enjoy a virtual version of this longstanding Brown tradition. Playing some of the best music from the 70s through today, DJ GARF DIGGA (Garfield Davidson ’00) kept the party going until midnight as alumni listened, danced, and reconnected with each other through the chat and in breakout rooms. 16 of 17 The weekend was capped on Sunday, May 2 with the 253rd Commencement, which included two College ceremonies to keep gathering sizes below state limits. The ceremonies were live-streamed and featured remarks from two student orators, an address from President Christina H. Paxson, and the awarding of honorary degrees. 17 of 17 Siddhi Nadkarni ’21, one of Brown’s two undergraduate student orators, encouraged classmates to always remember the spirit of activism and service that they experienced on College Hill. “We are problem solvers,” she said, addressing her class. “We just need to figure out what problems we want to solve next.” More from brown.edu/news Reunion events, Commencement forums capture, virtually, the spirit of community celebration, intellectual discovery Read more The celebration continues Now that Reunion Weekend has wound down, you can extend your experience with a few fun Reunion enhancements. Wish you could revisit Chicken Finger Fridays? Or perhaps you’re craving a magic bar or Jo's Spicy With? Let the sweet smell of nostalgia waft into your home kitchen with Brown-inspired food recipes and cocktail/mocktail recipes. Get in the groove and rewind to your years on campus with top Spotify lists from the decade you graduated. Show your Brown pride with 35 custom virtual backgrounds—perfect for sprucing up your Zoom or other online platforms. Looking for a way to keep the kids entertained? Download and print "That's So Brown" coloring sheets created by Brown students. But wait, there's more! (A.K.A. how to stay connected) Communities & Interests The Brown experience extends far beyond campus. Find out how to stay connected with your community. Volunteer Opportunities Connect with fellow Brunonians in meaningful ways and help shape the future of your alma mater in the process. Every contribution of your time and talent is welcome. Reunion & Class Giving Celebrate the memories and life-changing experiences by joining your class and fellow alumni in giving back to Brown. Pay It Forward Day: May 13 On this special giving day, we're coming together to support all that Brown makes possible. Join the movement and pay it forward on May 13, 2021. Tell us what you think. Please take this quick 3-question survey to help us create the best Reunions in the years to come. Take the survey. Related Links Reunion Weekend Reunion Schedule More Reunion Fun Medical Reunion Weekend Brown University Reunion Coverage Commencement Forums Tags Alumni Brunonia Community COVID-19 Events International Related News Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President & Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 April 28, 2022 By helping educators access crucial information resources, Hintermeister taps into passions she discovered as a Brown undergrad: sharing knowledge and giving back. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President &amp; Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Reunion, with a 2021 Twist Open details for Reunion, with a 2021 Twist Bookmark this Page