Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Travel Virtual Guides Our free virtual guides provide a curated collection of videos, podcasts, and recommended readings, as well as lectures and articles from Harvard professors, to help you explore and connect with a destination from the comfort of home. Find our collection of virtual travel guides below. Menu Main menu Travel Overview Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List February 14, 2021 Antarctica Virtual Travel Guide On this virtual journey, explore Antarctica, Earth’s last frontier. Take in its natural beauty, from turquoise glaciers to bustling penguin rookeries, and learn about the history of its exploration and how climate change is affecting the ice sheets today. January 24, 2021 South Africa Virtual Travel Guide On this virtual journey, experience the wonder and awe of this captivating country. Tour Robben Island, home to the infamous prison where Nelson Mandela was imprisoned, look out for the “Big Five” on a game drive through Kruger National Park, or or learn about the special wines of South Africa. December 27, 2020 From Across Harvard Virtual Guide Harvard Alumni Travels has sought out interesting and engaging content for you watch, listen, and read at your leisure. Delve into topics such as science and cooking, education, art, and much more! November 9, 2020 World War I Virtual Guide Inspired by our trip “The Legacy of World War I in Belgium & France,” this virtual guide focuses on stories, history, and culture of the Western Front during World War I. October 12, 2020 Indigenous Peoples Virtual Guide Based on the itinerary of our “Native American Voices” program, this virtual guide contains a variety of thought-provoking resources to help reflect and learn about the past, present, and future of Indigenous Peoples. September 20, 2020 Andalucía, Spain Virtual Travel Guide On this virtual journey, hear about the region’s Moorish rule from the 8th-15th centuries, tour Córdoba’s Mezquita Mosque-Cathedral, learn about the tradition of flamenco dancing, and imagine the taste of Iberian ham and Sherry wine. September 6, 2020 Japan Virtual Travel Guide On this virtual journey, explore the nation’s rich history and culture. Expand your knowledge of Japanese cuisine, try your hand at folding intricate origami, and learn about the history of Japanese books from Harvard professor Melissa McCormick. August 30, 2020 Tanzania Virtual Travel Guide On this virtual journey, take to the extraordinary plains of Tanzania and explore its array of wildlife. Enjoy a virtual safari, learn about the native Swahili language, and explore human evolution with a Harvard expert. August 9, 2020 Danube River Virtual Travel Guide On this virtual journey, explore the five cities visited in our “Passage along the Danube” program – Vienna, Bratislava, Budapest, Belgrade, and Bucharest. Immerse yourself in these cities and their exquisite music, food, and culture. July 26, 2020 Morocco Virtual Travel Guide On this virtual journey, explore the magnificent sights, sounds, and cuisine of Morocco. Tour the imperial cities, try your hand at preparing a Tagine, and engage with Harvard’s experts to learn more about Morocco’s history. July 12, 2020 Galápagos Virtual Travel Guide On this virtual journey, learn about the wildlife who inhabit the unique Galápagos Islands – including the giant tortoise, marine iguanas, and fur seals – and gain insight from expert Harvard faculty about evolution and the legacy of Charles Darwin. May 24, 2020 Vietnam Virtual Travel Guide On this virtual journey through Vietnam, explore its natural beauty, abiding tradition, and profoundly hospitable people. Learn about classic Vietnamese food, experience the bustling city streets, and explore Harvard’s connection. May 10, 2020 Egypt Virtual Travel Guide On this virtual journey, transport yourself to ancient Egypt. Tour the Giza Pyramids with a Harvard professor, make your very own falafel, and learn about Egyptian Art from study leader Jen Thum. April 26, 2020 Greece Virtual Travel Guide On this virtual journey, explore Greece from its ancient ruins to its rich culture. Discover the Parthenon, embrace the Greek culinary tradition, and learn about the Greek Hero from legendary Harvard professor Gregory Nagy. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College