Skip to main content ncstate-alumni-wolf-web Alumni Association Menu Close About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Events facebook twitter linked in email About About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine NC State Magazine Merchandise Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Events Come together with your Pack at our events across North Carolina and throughout the country. Connect with your Pack In college, many of your most memorable moments happened with your group — celebrating that big victory at the Belltower, accepting the Krispy Kreme Challenge, enjoying football tailgates, making Howling Cow runs. The Alumni Association helps you create new memories through fun events and unique experiences — like picnics, family outings, wine tastings, special tours, oyster roasts, barbecues and faculty talks — with others who share your love of NC State. Our events are open to alumni, students, families, friends, business partners and anyone else who loves NC State. You don’t have to be a member to attend, but members may enjoy discounts on registration or other perks. Check out our calendar, and make plans to join us. Play Video Upcoming Events More Events Jun 10 Friday7:05 PM New York Alumni Network: Yankees Baseball With the Pack Jun 18 Saturday2:00 PM Denver Alumni Network: Axe Throwing With the Pack Jun 19 Sunday1:20 PM Chicago Alumni Network: Cubs Baseball With the Pack Browse Our Event Photos All over the country, we’re keeping the Pack spirit alive through fun and virtual events. Browse our Flickr galleries to see photos from past events — maybe you’ll spot yourself! View photo galleries New Traditions In addition to gatherings of our regional networks and constituency groups all over the country, we bring the Pack together around exciting annual events like Red and White Week, Reunion Weekend and the Evening of the Stars gala. We celebrate our Wolfpack families through legacy events, honor our outstanding faculty and student leaders at annual awards ceremonies, and keep you updated on news from the university at receptions with the chancellor. Red and White Week Each fall, our Wolfpack family comes together — on campus or virtually through social media — for a week of events and traditions that celebrate NC State. Save the date Learn more Annual Events Find out about our big annual celebrations of Pack spirit. Learn more Giving The Alumni Association Impact Fund supports student leadership initiatives and alumni programming. Learn more Engagement Discover the many ways you can get involved with the Alumni Association. Jump right in Membership Access all of the Alumni Association’s benefits, discounts and giveaways by becoming a member. Join us Alumni Association Home Campus Box 7503 NC State University Raleigh NC 27695-7503 919.515.3375 Campus Map About Membership Events Engagement News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.