Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Programs & Events Online Learning Ready to dive in and learn something new? There are numerous resources available across the University to help you explore new topics or engage with familiar subject areas. We hope these channels of knowledge provide you with an opportunity to continuously engage in lifelong learning at your own time and pace. Confronting COVID Course Playlist HAA Faculty Webinars Playlist Menu Main menu All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Confronting COVID-19 Learning is a lifelong venture—and the Harvard Alumni Association offers many ways to continue your Harvard education. With resources available from across the University, you’re welcome to explore new topics or engage with familiar subject areas. With these resources, you can expand your career network, hear from faculty, enroll in online classes, enjoy stimulating discussions with Harvard study leaders, dive into subjects you’re passionate about, and much more. Check out this sampling of resources available to you. Learning with Harvard doesn’t have to end with graduation. We hope these channels provide you with an opportunity to continuously engage in lifelong learning at your own time and pace. Online Courses A collection of open courses from Harvard University. Whether it’s free courses on literature or premium business classes for executives, there's something for everyone. Browse Harvard Online Courses Usable Knowledge The Harvard Graduate School of Education is making education research and well-vetted strategies accessible to a wide audience, including teachers and principals, district leaders, policymakers, university faculty and higher education professionals, nonprofit leaders, entrepreneurs, members of the media, and parents. Read GSE Articles Working Knowledge Harvard Business School’s Working Knowledge has connected the School’s leading-edge research and ideas on business management with practitioners, thought leaders, and academics. Find Research for Business Leaders Policy Topics What are the most pressing global challenges of our times? Harvard Kennedy School’s community of faculty, researchers, practitioners, and students are actively working toward shaping policy outcomes and improving people’s lives. Learn More About Policy Harvard Law Today From news stories to student spotlights to virtual events, Harvard Law Today has the latest on all things legal. Stay Up-to-Date on Harvard Law News Medical News and Research Stay up-to-date on the latest studies performed by Harvard researchers and get a glimpse at how the Harvard Medical School community is shaping the future of education and biomedicine. Explore Research from HMS Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College