Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Gift Planning Image Gift Planning When you make a planned gift to Princeton, your generosity has an impact far beyond your lifetime. Your gift supports generations of students whose lives will be forever changed by their Princeton experience and who will forever change Princeton. There are many ways you can make a gift that costs you nothing today — or that helps you make a tax-wise investment in your future and Princeton’s. Our staff brings decades of expertise to the process of gift planning. We will work with you to help you find the best ways to meet your financial objectives while providing support to Princeton. Connect with Us Make a Planned Gift I’m looking for... Bequest Basics Charitable Gift Annuity Charitable Remainder Trust Annual Giving Legacy Estate Planning Kit Real Estate and Other Assets Charitable Lead Trust Testamentary Gifts from Retirement Plans Current Gifts from Retirement Funds Gift Calculator A bequest is a gift that comes to Princeton after your lifetime. Learn more A charitable gift annuity provides guaranteed payments to you and/or your beneficiaries age 65 or older for the payees’ lifetime. The remainder then supports the Princeton programs of your choice. Learn More A charitable remainder trust (CRT) allows you to donate property or assets while continuing to receive payments based on those assets. Learn More You can now make a significant gift to Annual Giving for your major reunion, while providing yourself and/or your beneficiaries an income stream. Learn More An estate plan gives you peace of mind that you’re doing everything you can for those you care about most. Learn More Giving a gift of real estate can be a highly effective philanthropic and financial strategy. Learn More Charitable lead trusts allow you to make a significant gift to your children, grandchildren, or other heirs on a date you specify, while also making a gift that benefits Princeton now. Learn More Retirement plans and IRAs are among the most highly taxed assets in an estate: 50% or more of the assets can be lost to estate and income taxes. Learn More Making your gift from retirement funds can offer significant tax and planning advantages by withdrawing funds yourself and taking an offsetting deduction in the same tax year, or by making a qualified charitable distribution. Either method counts toward distribution requirements (RMD) and gets assets out of the estate. Learn More Get an estimate of how a life income gift may benefit you in the first year. The information you enter is completely confidential and is not shared with Princeton staff. See an Estimate Why Annual Giving Legacy Matters The Annual Giving Legacy program is a convenient way to give a substantial gift to Princeton that doesn’t involve an immediate outflow of cash for those with an established charitable remainder trust or a gift annuity. Stephen Beckwith ’64 The Annual Giving Legacy program is a convenient way to give a substantial gift to Princeton that doesn’t involve an immediate outflow of cash for those with an established charitable remainder trust or a gift annuity. Stephen Beckwith ’64 I had a very good experience as an undergrad but what has been even more rewarding are the connections I’ve made since then. The network and the ties you create over a lifetime — Princeton is the gift that keeps on giving in that respect. William Paternotte ’67 It’s Princeton I want to help. Over the years Princeton has made remarkable strides in arts and sciences, the School of Public and International Affairs, engineering, the residential colleges, and has dedicated itself as an institution in service to broad goals and objectives. Jean “Gingie” McClung Halloran ’75 I know that the cost of a Princeton education is about twice as much as what the stated tuition is. Somebody paid half of my schooling and now I want to do the same for another student. Douglas G.G. Levick ’58 To say “thank you” to my alma mater, Princeton, in a way that assists the continuation of one of the most precious experiences of my life is a gift I give to me. There were those before me that gave to Princeton and paved the way for me to have great, foundation-solidifying experiences for life, for which I am forever grateful. Anonymous It is indeed a win-win. I wish more people my age knew about the huge benefits of charitable gift annuities. Richard Waugaman M.D. ’70 Annual Giving Legacy You can now make a significant gift to Annual Giving for your major reunion, while providing yourself and/or your beneficiaries an income stream. How Annual Giving Legacy Works Meet a 1746 Society Member The 1746 Society, named for the year in which the University was founded, gratefully acknowledges benefactors whose estate gifts to the University show that the future of Princeton was close to their hearts. Anyone who notifies Princeton that the University is named as the beneficiary of a gift through his or her estate, or through a planned gift during his or her lifetime, is automatically enrolled. The 1746 Society has over 2,600 living members, including those who choose to remain anonymous. See all 1746 Society stories. Skip Rankin ’72 aids University’s mission with an Annual Giving legacy gift Asset Appreciation: Emeritus Professor Ken Boudreaux ’65 creates gift for a future economics professor Frank Klapperich ’56 and the ‘Great Class’ drive Annual Giving toward finish line Ray Hartman ’69 builds promising futures Join the 1746 Society The 1746 Society, named for the year in which the University was founded, gratefully acknowledges benefactors whose estate gifts to the University show that the future of Princeton was close to their hearts. How to Become a Member Gift Planning 2021 Reunions Webinar Gift Planning Reunions Webinar The virtual Reunions seminar looked at the state of the economy and financial markets, the implications of tax proposals from the Biden administration, what the “new normal” might look like, and what it means for you. Speakers: Skip Fox ’75, partner and former head of the Tax and Employee Benefits Department and the Private Wealth Services Group at McGuireWoods, and G. Scott Clemons ’90, partner and chief investment strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman; and moderator James Bright ’71, estate planning and administrative attorney at Schneider Smeltz Spieth Bell. 1746 Society Webinars Listen and learn from alumni experts speaking on a range of estate planning topics. Watch Webinars Now Princeton Generations Read Past Issues Your Online Gift Planning Newsletter Be in the know with the latest information on planned giving and how it can benefit you and Princeton. Could an Annual Giving Legacy Gift Work for You? Heading for your 50th Reunion or beyond? Learn how you can make a significant gift for your major reunion, while providing for yourself and/or your beneficiaries through the Annual Giving Legacy Program. Making a List, Checking It Twice Preparing your end-of-year checklist? Don’t forget to consider CARES Act incentives for charitable giving available only until December 31, says 1746 Society member and estate planning expert Skip Fox ’75. Read Past Issues Resources Generations Newsletter Gift Planning Brochure Bequest Fact Sheet 1746 Society Membership Form Annual Giving Legacy Brochure Sample IRA Letters Real Estate Fact Sheet 1746 Society Webinars Estate Planning Kit Information for Estate Attorneys and Administrators Our legal name is: Trustees of Princeton University Our tax ID number is: 21-0634501 Our address and contact information for estates and trusts is: Office of the General Counsel Princeton University New South Building, Fourth Floor Princeton, NJ 08544 609.258.2500 Bequest Basics Sample Language and More Gift Calculator Get a Life Income Gift Estimate Staff Expertise Meet Our Experienced Staff Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram