Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell CC of Cape Cod 2022 Annual Meeting Date June 1 @ 6:30 pm Venue Cape Cod, MA Register Save Google Calendar .ICS Event Details Please join us for our annual meeting followed by an exciting presentation from Margaret Carney, BArch ’81 the University Architect for Cornell! Date: Wednesday, June 1, 2022 Time: 6:30 pm – Annual Meeting 7:00 pm – Presentation from Margaret Carney 7:30 pm – Q & A As senior director/university architect, Carney will contribute significantly to the overall direction of Cornell’s architectural design, campus planning, landscape architecture, and capital planning. In her role as the architectural conscience of the institution and the steward of sound architectural design standards, Carney will lead initiatives to meet the long-range, functional, and aesthetic goals of the university. Her efforts will ensure a cohesive campus that promotes Cornell’s educational mission while being sensitive to adaptive reuse of historical buildings, historical preservation, and aesthetically pleasing grounds and green spaces. Carney will oversee the guidance of architectural designs and the selection of architectural consultants. In her previous work for various architectural firms, Carney designed an addition to Cornell’s Grumman Squash Courts and an athletic facility master plan. She also was involved in the planning and design of the Physical Sciences Building and the parking garage at Schoellkopf Field. Don’t miss out on this wonderful event! Register today! Questions: cccapecod@cornell.edu Related Events The ABCs of NFTs June 2, 2022 Ithaca CAA Northern California - Cornellian Happy Hour June 2, 2022 Class of 1978 Knickerbocker Rooftop Reception June 3, 2022 New York, NY Plan your Reunion Reunion has something for everyone. Browse events and create a custom itinerary to make the most of your weekend on the Hill! Can't make it in person? Choose the Virtual Reunion package during registration and get access to featured livestream events. Make your schedule Ho Plaza looking south from atop McGraw Tower. Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022