Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Alumni Association Toggle navigation Site Menu Membership Join Today Renew Your Membership Membership Overview Why Become a Member? Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks Alumni Directory My oneFSU Dashboard Students Student Alumni Association Join SAA SAA Membership Perks My oneFSU Dashboard Honors Alumni Ambassadors Award Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Legacy Scholarship Grads Made Good The Inspire Award Community Alumni Networks Alumni Career Services Events Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Alumni Travel Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Webinar Resources Virtual Alumni Resources Support Join, Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Give to the Legacy Scholarship Give to the FSU Alumni Association Give to the FSU Alumni Association Endowment Give to FSU Academic Programs Purchase a Westcott Plaza Brick Support the Alumni Ambassadors Fund About About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Annual Highlights Alumni Center & Events Employment Frequently Asked Questions Financial Information Map and Directions Sponsorship Opportunities FSU Alumni Center Contact Us Contact Information FSU Alumni Association Alumni Center 1030 West Tennessee Street Tallahassee, Florida 32304-7719 Phone: 850.644.2761 Fax: 850.644.8847 Email: alumni@fsu.edu One of the ways the FSU Alumni Association serves our alumni is to share the views and opinions of our fellow Seminoles with university administration. We encourage all alumni to share feedback, comments or questions about Florida State University or a recent interaction with the FSU Alumni Association with us online. Contact information is not required on this online form, however, if provided it may be shared with university staff to facilitate further discussion of a specific topic. General Questions alumni@fsu.edu 850.644.2761 Membership Inquiries memberships@alumni.fsu.edu 850.644.2761 Travel Inquiries travel@alumni.fsu.edu 850.644.2761 Gift Processing Inquiries o.newsome@fsu.edu 850.645.9382 Student Alumni Association & Student Memberships saa@fsu.edu 850.644.2761 Seminole Clubs® and Chapters alumni@fsu.edu 850.644.2298 Westcott Brick Program westcottbricks@fsu.edu 850.644.2761 Events events@alumni.fsu.edu 850.644.2761 Facility Rental facilities@alumni.fsu.edu 850.645.9255 Administration and Operations Julie Decker President and CEO j.decker@fsu.edu 850.644.2761 Read Bio Julie began her service to FSU in November 2018. In her role, she has the privilege of serving the best alumni staff in the country as well as our 370,000 alumni around the world. She allegedly enjoys throwing pottery, photography, music, and reading. Her favorite getaway spot is the beach when it’s not the mountains. Aimee Wirth Director of Board and Executive Relations awirth@fsu.edu 850.644.1148 Read Bio Before joining the Alumni team in 2014, Aimee gained a lot of experience working in FSU University Relations for 20+ years. Outside of work, Aimee enjoys wine, reading, coloring, and spending time with her daughters and her husband – the order of which depends on the day. Marcus Nicolas Director of Operations and Administration mbnicolas@fsu.edu 850.645.2319 Read Bio What does a television producer, high school teacher, college assistant professor and an associate dean all have in common? I am not sure either, but Marcus has served in each of those roles. After 13 years as an educator, he has been noted as a consummate negotiator, professional convener and strategic thinker – a set of skills perfect for bringing any team together. When he is not entertaining his wife and two children with random jokes and drum beats, he enjoys writing screenplays and eating barbeque. Adam Kabuka Sr. Database Specialist akabuka@fsu.edu 850.644.2761 Read Bio Olivia Newsome Gift Processing Coordinator o.newsome@fsu.edu 850.645.9382 Read Bio Olivia, a two-time graduate of Florida State, joined the Alumni Association in August 2021. She is a small-town Florida girl who came to FSU to pursue her degrees, while also meeting her now husband and becoming a military wife. Olivia enjoys all things home-renovation, outdoors, Target, and analytical. If she isn’t at an FSU game or on campus, she is with her dog Luke (a Collie that looks like Lassie), starting a home renovation, traveling wherever she can get a cheap plane ticket to, at Target, or at a coffee shop-preferably Lucky Goat. Matthew Falzone Fiscal Specialist mhf21@fsu.edu 850.645.9530 Read Bio Matthew, born in the Philippines and raised in the Washington D.C. area, came to FSU as a student in the Fall of 202. A current finance major, Matthew joined the FSU Alumni Association as a Fiscal Specialist in March of 2022. Nadine Long Business Manager nplong@fsu.edu 850.644.2761 Read Bio Nadine Long has been engaged in the field of public administration for more than two decades. She served as assistant to the public works director of her hometown, Marianna, Florida for many years before joining the FSU Facilities Design and Construction Office as a project administrator in 2018. Nadine is a proud FSU Alumnae, dedicated wife and mother of three adult children and seven godchildren ranging in age from 1-31. In her spare time, she loves watching movies with her husband Anthony, visiting with her mom, and cooking for family and friends. Communications Lauren Schoenberger Director of Communications lschoenberger@fsu.edu 850.645.2358 Read Bio Lauren joined the Alumni Association in 2021 as Director of Communications after serving as Director of Integrated Marketing at Tallahassee Community College. As a three-time alumna of Florida State University, it comes natural for Lauren to cheer on the Seminoles. She enjoys traveling when she can and has lived across the world in cities like San Francisco, London, and Sydney, but loves to call Tallahassee home for her and her family. Janecia Britt Assistant Director of Communications & Editor-in-Chief, VIRES Magazine jbritt@fsu.edu 850.645.0212 Read Bio A military brat born in Keflavik, Iceland, Janecia still considers herself a Florida native, having lived in Central Florida for most of her life. A proud FSU grad, she's passionate about telling the stories of her alma mater. When not buried deep in magazines, you can find her baking treats, laughing at funny things on the internet, failing at her two-person book club, and having charcuterie nights with friends. Jessica Rosenthal Graphic Designer jrosenthal@fsu.edu 850.644.9204 Read Bio Jessica, a College of Fine Arts graduate, is an FSU trivia powerhouse since working in the university’s Sesquicentennial office upon graduation in 2001. As our graphic designer, Jessica strives to use garnet and gold as if they were the only two colors in the spectrum. When not on campus Jessica might be found hunting for treasures or starting art projects she doesn’t tend to finish. Sarah Gray Tinter Communication and Digital Media Coordinator spgray@fsu.edu 850.644.2761 Read Bio Sarah Gray is a recent graduate of Florida State who is pursuing her Master’s Degree in Integrated Marketing & Communication.Sarah was born and raised in Ponte Vedra, FL and always supported the Gators until she saw the light in 2018 and chose FSU. She loves cheering on her Seminole sports teams, taking trips to the beach, and has unfortunately participated in more than one TikTok dance. With the constant evolution of social media, Sarah is always ready to learn about and implement each platform's latest trends. Harleigh Johnson Communications Assistant hjohnson3@fsu.edu 850.644.2761 Read Bio Upon moving to Tallahassee in 2011, Harleigh has grown to love not only the city but Florida State University. Currently a senior in the Business College, Harleigh is expected to graduate with a degree in Marketing in July, 2022. She is thrilled to be working for the Alumni Association and looks forward to give back to the very university she is studying at. When not at work you can find Harleigh baking, watching a classic rom-com, or spending time with her family and friends. Membership and Marketing Renita Smith Director of Membership and Marketing rsmith10@fsu.edu 850.644.1045 Read Bio A two-time graduate of Florida State, Renita has recently returned to her alma mater and is excited to join the Alumni Association team. In her spare time, she enjoys all things creative, including the arts, reading, media, great tv and her most recent passions – hand lettering and sketch notes. Brooke Robinson Assistant Director of Membership brobinson7@fsu.edu 850.644.2189 Read Bio Brooke is so excited to be in the Sunshine State. After growing up and spending most of her life in Pennsylvania, she is ready for some sunshine and Florida beaches. As a very passionate Penn State alumni, Brooke cannot wait to also bleed Garnet and Gold and help grow the Seminole family! In her free time, Brooke is a fitness junkie and can be found at a spin class any time of the day. She cannot wait to explore Tallahassee with her (fur)son Duke! Programs and Outreach Whitney Powers Director of Alumni Programs and Outreach wpowers@fsu.edu 850.644.7434 Read Bio Whitney has been managing the Alumni Association’s events since 2010, creating gatherings for alumni all around the world. She’s a Florida panhandle native who enjoys all things Florida, especially sunshine, the beach and camping at local state parks with her daughter (class of 2034) and husband. Lindsey Alligood Assistant Director of Alumni Networks lalligood@fsu.edu 850.644.2765 Read Bio Lindsey, a Florida State alumna, joined the Alumni Association team in 2019, after working at the FSU Foundation for two and a half years. As a graduate of the College of Fine Arts and art enthusiast, you can catch her at almost any gallery and museum opening in Tallahassee. Lindsey also enjoys exploring state parks and listening to true crime podcasts—usually not at the same time. Joanna White Assistant Director of Programs, Scholarships & Awards jwhite9@fsu.edu 850.644.2761 Read Bio Joanna White, a Tallahassee native and Florida State Graduate School alumna (M.S ’13), began serving the university in August of 2018 (a week before the home opener for the 2018 FSU Football season – talk about a hands on orientation!) prior to joining the Alumni team in July of 2021. She enjoys the outdoors, especially if it involves a beach or a boat, and spending time with her friends and family. Kevin Costello Student and Alumni Engagement Coordinator kjcostello@fsu.edu 850.644.2761 Read Bio Hailing from Safety Harbor, Florida, Kevin is a two-time graduate of Florida State University. After achieving his Bachelor’s Degree in Business Management and Marketing in 2021, he graduated with his Master’s in Sport Management just one year later. On the weekends, you can find Kevin cheering on Tampa Bay Sports teams, as well as his favorite motorsports icons from racing series around the world. On a nice day outside, there's a good chance you'll find him at Tom Brown Park mastering his disc golf skills. Seminole Clubs and Chapters Keith Cottrell Director of Clubs kcottrell@fsu.edu 850.644.2298 Read Bio Keith, a two-time graduate from Florida State, is the fearless leader of the Seminole Clubs and Chapters team. A 4-year starter on the Seminole football team, he has yet to meet a plate of barbeque he couldn’t finish. A true guy’s guy, Keith was recently blessed with the challenge of two twin baby girls. Francesca Pusateri Seminole Clubs Accounting Specialist fpusateri@fsu.edu 850.645.0213 Read Bio Francesca is a Spring 2021 graduate of Florida State University receiving a Bachelor's degree in Finance with a minor in Mathematics. She joined the Gift Processing team in December of 2019 after previously working at the FSU Bookstore and the White Sox Baseball Stadium in her hometown, Chicago. She is excited to now be on the Seminole Clubs and Chapters team! In her free time, she enjoys the warm weather by taking her Pomeranian Husky, Cash, to the park and listening to country music! OFFICIAL PARTNERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Their generous support allows the FSU Alumni Association to provide programs, services and events to you. MEMBERS Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Member Perks Reward Zone Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks STUDENTS Student Alumni Association Join SAA Benefits of SAA Membership Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks HONORS Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award COMMUNITY Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Events Football HQ Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Travel Programs ABOUT US About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Sponsorship Opportunities ALUMNI CENTER Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions FSU Alumni Association 1030 W. Tennessee St. Tallahassee, FL 32304 Email Us (850) 644-2761 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright Close