Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Four Alumni to Receive 2022 Harvard Medal Recognizing extraordinary service to the University, the Harvard Medals will be presented in-person at Harvard Alumni Day on June 3. Read on the Gazette Register for Alumni Day Triple the Joy Photographers captured the festive rites and poignant moments as three Harvard classes celebrated Commencement. See the Photos Harvard Board Elections Results Seven alumni have been elected as new members of Harvard University’s Board of Overseers and six as directors of the Harvard Alumni Association. Read on the Gazette Learn About the Elections Affordability for All Undergraduates, alumni, faculty, and staff share heartfelt comments about the impact of financial aid at Harvard College. Watch the Video Stories June 1, 2022 Community by Design The incoming president of the Harvard Alumni Association, Allyson Mendenhall AB '90, MLA '99 is committed to creating inclusive alumni experiences. May 18, 2022 Researchers Awarded $1.3M for Climate Work The eighth round of Climate Change Solutions Fund grants will fund 10 projects led by Harvard faculty and students. May 12, 2022 Lapp to Step Down as Executive VP Katie Lapp, Harvard's chief administrative officer since 2009, will be succeeded by Meredith Weenick AB '90, MBA '02. View All Stories Programs & Events Jun 01 Chicago, IL Social HBAS Chicago Meet and Greet Harvard Black Alumni Society Jun 01 Lecture/Reading/Talk VIRTUAL: American Masterplan: Commemorating the 75th Anniversary of the Marshall Plan Harvard Club of Washington, DC Jun 01 Minneapolis, MN Lecture/Reading/Talk “Private Equity as a Structurally Superior Asset Class” with David Royal Harvard Club of Minnesota Jun 01 Lecture/Reading/Talk June 1 - Future of Health - CEO Roundtable: ESG Priorities in Life Sciences Innovation Harvard Club of San Diego View All Upcoming EventsView Featured Programs Register Now for Harvard Alumni Day! Harvard alumni are invited to join the Harvard Alumni Association on Friday, June 3, for a University-wide, global event honoring our alumni community and featuring a keynote address by two-term U.S. Poet Laureate Tracy K. Smith AB ’94. Learn More Register Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College