Close Menu Explore Featured Alumni Owl Recognition Temple News Connect Class Notes Search Class Notes List Your Business Login to Your Website Account Online Directory Owl Network Update Your Information Attend Alumni Events Athletics Events Football Military Bowl Game Watches Basketball Additional Sports Give to Owl Club Signature Events Global Days of Service Alumni Week Homecoming University Events Participate Alumni Association TUAA Strategic Plan & Bylaws TUAA Officers Awards School and College Associations TUAA Updates Groups and Societies Black Alumni Alliance Temple Women's Network Regional Chapters Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Boston Central Florida Chicago Dallas/Fort Worth Greater Philadelphia Hartford Houston Lancaster Los Angeles Metropolitan New York Northern California Palm Beach and Broward Counties Pittsburgh Chapter San Diego Seattle Tokyo Washington, D.C. Students Student Alumni Association Temple University Grad Countdown Volunteer Young Alumni Past Webinars Diamond Excellence Award Social Media Ambassadors Beyond Broad Get Involved Resources Alumni and Constituent Engagement Alumni Benefits Alumni Insurance Program Temple License Plates Alumni Business Directory Career and Professional Development Digital Content Library Temple Pride Transcripts and Diplomas TUmail and TUportal Login Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Temple Utilities Alumni Login Explore Featured Alumni Owl Recognition Temple News Connect Class Notes List Your Business Login to Your Website Account Online Directory Owl Network Update Your Information Attend Alumni Events Athletics Events Signature Events University Events Participate Alumni Association Groups and Societies Regional Chapters Students Volunteer Young Alumni Resources Alumni and Constituent Engagement Alumni Benefits Alumni Business Directory Career and Professional Development Digital Content Library Temple Pride Transcripts and Diplomas TUmail and TUportal Menu Congratulations Congratulations Thank you! Thank you! Learn More Learn More Make a Gift Update Your Info IMAGE - Spring Updates from TUAA Spring Updates from TUAA Read the most recent letter from the president of the Temple University Alumni Association, Michael Breeze, FOX ’96, and see how you can get involved this spring. IMAGE - Alumni Business Directory Alumni Business Directory Owls always support each other. Shop #TempleMade businesses or list your own in the Alumni Business Directory today. IMAGE - University Announcements University Announcements Visit Temple Now for the latest university announcements, news and updates. Upcoming Alumni Events All event start / end times listed below are in Eastern Daylight Time (EDT). Events by Date May 25 May 25, 2022 to July 25, 2022: TUAA Hosts: Owls at the Ballpark Phillies Takeover Add to Calendar 5:35 PM to 7:05 PM Join your fellow Owls for a pregame reception at Citizens Bank Park then head to your seats and watch the Phillies play the Atlanta Braves. *In-Person Event Jun 03 June 3, 2022: STHM on the Road: Atlanta Add to Calendar 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM Join your fellow alumni from the School of Sport, Tourism and Hospitality Management for a networking event in Atlanta! *In-Person Event Jun 05 June 5, 2022: Central Florida Chapter of TUAA: Taste of Philly Add to Calendar 1:00 PM to 3:30 PM Enjoy good company, delicious cheesesteaks and Philly favorite snacks at the Central Florida Chapter’s Taste of Philly! *In-Person Event Jun 05 June 5, 2022: National Center for Civil and Human Rights Tour Add to Calendar 1:00 PM to 3:00 PM Join fellow Atlanta alumni as we tour a cultural institution that connects the Civil Rights Movement to the human rights challenges we face today. *In-Person Event Jun 09 June 9, 2022: Palm Beach & Broward Counties Chapter of TUAA: Rooftop Happy Hour Add to Calendar 5:30 PM to 7:30 PM Join your fellow Florida Owls for a rooftop happy hour overlooking the ocean! *In-Person Event Stay Connected Temple Alumni on Instagram Temple University Alumni Association Tweets by @TempleAlumni Watch videos on YouTube The Temple University Alumni Association was founded in 1927. Learn about the TUAA There are almost 360,000 living Temple alumni. Search the Online Directory More than 149,000 Temple alumni live and work in the Philadelphia region. Learn More about Temple Alumni In 1983, a new Temple logo resulting in the recognizable Temple “T” was designed by a group of Tyler School of Art and Architecture graduate students. Tyler student introduces the "T" The university’s first president, Russell H. Conwell, was pastor of Grace Baptist Church and founder of Temple College. Learn More about Russell H. Conwell Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Florida, New York and California are the states with the most Temple alumni. Learn More about Temple Alumni “T For Temple U” is a cheer performed at many sporting events, pep rallies and school celebrations. It’s accompanied by arm motions that create the shapes of the letters T and U. T For Temple U Temple University Alumni and Constituent Engagement 1801 North Broad Street Conwell Hall, 7th Floor Philadelphia, PA 19122 215-204-7521 alumni@temple.edu Meet the Staff Get the latest Temple Alumni on Instagram Make a Gift to Temple Copyright 2020 Temple University. All rights reserved. Show Modal ×