Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Virtual YAA Learn, Discover, and Engage with online offerings from the Yale Alumni Association Information Links Connect Online Find an Event Happening Soon Together with interest groups, regional clubs, Yale College classes, and campus partners, we're always adding new events to our online calendar. From virtual panels to happy hours, there are plenty of ways to stay connected to the Yale community. Upcoming Events On-Demand Can't Watch Live? Not to worry! All virtual event recordings are added to the YAA Webinars On-Demand page as they become available. Watch Now Webinar Showcases from the YAA Careers, Life, and Yale Webinars Browse our collection of discussions on networking, mentoring, and developing career and life skills from expert panels featuring Yale alumni. Yale Alumni Service Programs Explore how Yalies all over the world have come together to impact the places where they live and work and connect with their communities in meaningful ways. Yale Alumni LIVE Meet Yalies from around the world as they share personal insights, unique stories, and behind-the-scenes peeks — live on Facebook, Zoom, and Instagram. IMPACT 2: Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Focused on inspiration, understanding, and action, a distinguished array of alumni and faculty thought leaders address how Yale can make an IMPACT by embracing diversity and providing tools for positive change. 2021 YAA Assembly and Yale Alumni Fund Convocation The Yale Alumni Association Assembly & Yale Alumni Fund Convocation is our signature program for volunteer leaders. 2021 programming featured a series of virtual sessions and offerings replacing our usual two-day, in-person event. 150th Anniversary of Women at Yale Virtual Symposium In a spectacular finale to a year of celebrations in honor of coeducation, 50WomenAtYale150 hosted the 150th Anniversary Virtual Symposium, September 24-27, 2020. Responding to the Movement Conversations with Alumni Leaders on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in Action. BOLD Perspectives Conversations with Alumni Leaders on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in Action. YIA Virtual Series on Global Citizenship Watch spotlight Q&A's from the Yale International Alliance's Virtual Series on Global Citizenship. More Ways to Learn Online Yale Alumni Academy Courses Yale Alumni Academy offers programs rooted in Yale’s tradition of intellectual community and friendship, featuring a combination in-depth courses and free educational webinars. Videos and Podcasts Let your curiosity guide you through videos and podcasts produced by the larger Yale community. Additional Resources From library and journal access to open online courses, there is a wealth of lifelong learning opportunities at your fingertips. Connect with the YAA on Social Media Yale Alumni Association on Facebook @YaleAlumni on Twitter @YaleAlumni on Instagram Yale Alumni Association on YouTube @YaleAlumni on TikTok Yale Alumni Association on LinkedIn Virtual Puzzles Rose Alumni House 100 pieces Harkness Tower 100 pieces Harkness Memorial Gate 100 pieces Battell Chapel Stained Glass 500 pieces 50 Women at Yale 150 Buttons 500 pieces Hall of Graduate Studies 500 pieces Great Hall of Dinosaurs 1000 pieces Yale University Art Gallery 1000 pieces Sterling Memorial Library 1000 pieces Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page