Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Help support the Clemson Alumni Association while Earning Benefits for Yourself! The alumni association works closely with our partners to provide you, our alumni, with products, services, benefits and savings. Whether you carry the Clemson Paw branded credit or debit card in your wallet, travel the world with other alumni, or participate in our home, pet and auto insurance programs, you are making a difference for Clemson. When you take advantage of these offerings, you are also helping to support the Clemson Alumni Association. Check out the opportunities below for ways that you can benefit by just being a Clemson graduate! Shop Now Clemson Customized Cash Rewards Credit Card Show your Clemson pride every time you swipe! Apply today and take a little piece of Clemson with you wherever you go! Available to alumni, parents, friends and fans of Clemson. Team Fan Shop In need of some Solid Orange attire? Order your official Clemson gear and show the world you are a Tiger! Clemson Passport Travel The Clemson Alumni Association is your ticket to the world’s cultures, sights, and sounds. We handle the arrangements and work with high-quality providers so that you can relax, explore, and immerse yourself into your dream destinations. Clemson Ring The Clemson Class Ring serves as a physical reminder of the bond that exists between alumni. The ring recognizes the accomplishments of Clemson graduates and is widely recognizable among alumni around the world. Available to alumni and Clemson students who have completed 90 or more credit hours. Away Game Travel Packages Congratulations to your Clemson Tigers for clinching their sixth straight College Football Playoff berth! Due to limited attendance, an official travel program will not be offered this year. Submit your information below to be notified for future offerings. M.La Hart Gift Collection Clemson Shop includes cufflinks, official accessories, collectibles, commemorative frames and fine watches. M.LaHart’s unique gifts are expertly crafted, personally engraved and beautifully presented, perfect for Clemson grads and alumni gifts. PreviousNext Clemson License Tags Clemson Passport Travel Health and Travel Insurance Programs Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info