Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Alumni Association Toggle navigation Site Menu Membership Join Today Renew Your Membership Membership Overview Why Become a Member? Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks Alumni Directory My oneFSU Dashboard Students Student Alumni Association Join SAA SAA Membership Perks My oneFSU Dashboard Honors Alumni Ambassadors Award Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Legacy Scholarship Grads Made Good The Inspire Award Community Alumni Networks Alumni Career Services Events Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Alumni Travel Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Webinar Resources Virtual Alumni Resources Support Join, Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Give to the Legacy Scholarship Give to the FSU Alumni Association Give to the FSU Alumni Association Endowment Give to FSU Academic Programs Purchase a Westcott Plaza Brick Support the Alumni Ambassadors Fund About About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Annual Highlights Alumni Center & Events Employment Frequently Asked Questions Financial Information Map and Directions Sponsorship Opportunities FSU Alumni Center Toggle navigation SECTION MENU Alumni Center & Events Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Maps & Directions Event Space Alumni Center Event Space Options Grand Ballroom The Grand Ballroom is the perfect venue for the wedding of your dreams or the party of a lifetime. Surrounded by large windows and glass doors provide a breathtaking and unique view, the ballroom is approximately 4,320 sq. ft. (90' x 48') of carpeted space. Occupancy is 248 for plated meal service or 300+ standing or in theater-style seating arrangements. Rental Rate (up to six hours) $2,000 (Friday-Saturday) $1,500 (Sunday-Thursday) For wedding package and full facility rental pricing, please see our Policies and Procedures. Cottrell Conference Room Named after Dr. Raymond Cottrell, this conference room can be configured into a board room or a classroom arrangement. This room can comfortably accommodate 25-30 people and has full audio/visual capabilities. Rental Rate (up to six hours) Half Day $250 (Monday - Friday) $400 (Saturday - Sunday) Full Day $500 (Monday - Friday) $650 (Saturday - Sunday) Pearl Tyner House This is the former President's home and serves as the perfect venue for lunches, dinners, small receptions, teas and cocktail parties. Rental Rate (up to six hours) $1,000 (Friday-Saturday) $900 (Sunday-Thursday) Available Monday - Friday after 5:00 p.m. and Saturday - Sunday all day. Additional hours billed at the rate of $100 regardless of category. Rendina Room Named for Mr. Bruce Rendina, this conference room is 1,575 sq. ft. (45'x35') of carpeted space and can accomodate up to 80 people. The room includes a whiteboard, pull-down screen, food service counter with sink, refrigerator, ice maker and interior restrooms. Rental Rate (up to six hours) $500 (Friday-Saturday) $250 (Sunday-Thursday) *Use of Alumni Center tables and chairs is included in room rental fee. Please see out Policies and Procedures for more details on event spaces. For more information about hosting your event at the FSU Alumni Center, contact Traditions Catering at 850.645.9255 or traditions-catering@aramark.com. OFFICIAL PARTNERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Their generous support allows the FSU Alumni Association to provide programs, services and events to you. MEMBERS Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Member Perks Reward Zone Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks STUDENTS Student Alumni Association Join SAA Benefits of SAA Membership Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks HONORS Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award COMMUNITY Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Events Football HQ Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Travel Programs ABOUT US About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Sponsorship Opportunities ALUMNI CENTER Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions FSU Alumni Association 1030 W. Tennessee St. Tallahassee, FL 32304 Email Us (850) 644-2761 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright Close