Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Header Utility Menu Contact Us Get Involved Make a Gift Search Search Forward Blue Scholarships School/College Funds Mission, Academics and Programs Campus Improvements Health Sciences Staff Directory Alumni Community Alumni Relations FAQ Your School or College Stay Connected Find Groups and Associations Alumni Benefits and Resources National Black Alumni Advisory Board Women of Creighton Mission and Ministry History and Tradition Become a Resource for Students Alumni Outcomes Awards and Honors News and Events Latest News Events Calendar Creighton Days Giving Day Evening of Honors Athletic Events AlumWire Giving Opportunities Find your giving opportunity Volunteer The Creighton Society Ways to Give Parent Fund Corporations and Foundations Diversity and Inclusion Scholarships Health Sciences Phoenix Athletics How Funding Works Goodbye Gallagher Giving Opportunities Keep the Creighton tradition going strong for thousands of students and generations to come. Creighton University Alumni and Friends More in Giving Opportunities More in Giving Opportunities: Find your giving opportunity Volunteer The Creighton Society Ways to Give Parent Fund Corporations and Foundations Diversity and Inclusion Scholarships Health Sciences Phoenix Athletics How Funding Works Gift by gift Creighton’s story began with a visionary act of philanthropy — when Mary Lucretia Creighton made a gift of $200,000 to start a Jesuit, Catholic university in Omaha. More than 140 years later, our story continues, donor by donor, gift by gift. You can keep Creighton thriving. You can support the University and our students through gifts to scholarships, academics, programs, mission and improvements to our campuses in Omaha, Phoenix and Hastings. Every gift matters. Every gift, no matter the size, adds up to something great. You can make a difference today! Make a gift There are so many great ways to support Creighton! Greatly Needed Scholarships Our No. 1 fundraising priority. Greatly Needed The Creighton Fund Helping us help our students as quickly as possible. Creighton Health Sciences Phoenix Campus Support one of the most ambitious projects in Creighton’s history. Find your giving opportunity Why I give "My Creighton education itself is why I choose to give to Creighton. With the University's Jesuit tradition and emphasis on reflection, you can't come to Creighton without thinking about what your contribution to the world should be. That makes it so unique. And it makes me want to continue supporting Creighton." — Nikki Rieck, BSW’94, Creighton Fund donor Read more about Nikki Creighton Giving There are so many ways to support the University and our students. You can make a gift to scholarships or the general fund. You can support specific schools, colleges or causes. However you choose to support Creighton, we will help you meet your goals and ensure that your gift makes an impact! Find your giving opportunity The Creighton Fund Creighton Phonathon Make a gift! Stories of giving A new history of Omaha (and Creighton) women May 06, 2022 Eileen Wirth’s new history of notable Omaha women frequently reads as a history of notable Creighton women, as the stories of the city and the University are inextricably connected. Creighton celebrates 24th Street transformation May 06, 2022 On May 5, lead donors, community leaders and Creighton University representatives formally dedicated one of the most pivotal campus transformations in decades — Keough Plaza, Haddix Circle and Physicians Mutual Crossing at 24th Street. A new endowed chair in nursing May 05, 2022 On May 4, associate professor Meghan Potthoff, BSN'01, PhD, APRN-NP, was installed as the Keough Family Endowed Chair in Nursing. View All News Take the Next Step Make a gift Update your info Forward Blue FAQ Creighton University HR Compliance Privacy Non-Discrimination 2500 California Plaza Omaha, NE 68178 • 402.280.2700 © 2021 Creighton University