Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu School of Public Health Going beyond preventing disease to reshaping health care and safeguarding vulnerable populations, the school is improving human health on a large scale. Breadcrumb Home Giving Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Sub Navigation In This Section Biomedical Research Brown Arts Institute BrownConnect Brown University Library Carney Institute for Brain Science Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice Cogut Institute for the Humanities Computer Science Data Science Initiative Diversity & Inclusion Educational Innovation Investing in Faculty Financial Aid Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute Institute at Brown for Environment and Society Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics John Carter Brown Library Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women Physics School of Engineering School of Public Health The Warren Alpert Medical School Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Addressing today's critical health challenges Tobacco, alcohol, and other drug use; environmental pollutants and mental health issues. Diseases from autism to dementia. And now the COVID-19 pandemic: the role of public health is more important now than ever. The School of Public Health’s centers and institutes are addressing public health problems with global implications like these. High-impact research has, for example already: Proved how the use of fast-acting fentanyl detection strips reduces opioid overdose deaths. Found that hunger is a health issue, particularly for children and seniors. Provided new insight that could inform programs aimed at preventing sexual violence among teens. Made connections between the environment and the risk for suffering a stroke. Your gift through the BrownTogether campaign will provide the resources necessary to advance discovery and to prepare the scientists, innovators and leaders of the future to tackle and find solutions for the world’s biggest health challenges. “ Brown’s culture of multidisciplinary research makes it uniquely capable of addressing the present challenges as well as preparing for the future. ” Dr. Ashish Jha Dean of the School of Public Health Support the School of Public Health. With your help, we can tackle the pressing problems of today and train the public health leaders of tomorrow. MAKE A GIFT For information about specific giving opportunities, please contact: Patrick Schaefer Director of Development for the School of Public Health patrick_schaefer@brown.edu Related Stories News from Brown President Biden appoints Dr. Ashish K. Jha to White House role to lead nation’s COVID-19 response March 17, 2022 The dean of Brown’s School of Public Health, a globally recognized expert on pandemic preparedness and response, will take leave for a temporary assignment to serve in the critical federal government role. Read Article Open details for President Biden appoints Dr. Ashish K. Jha to White House role to lead nation’s COVID-19 response News from Brown Brown launches online-only master’s degree in public health February 23, 2022 An innovative new version of Brown’s MPH program, delivered exclusively online, will expand access to top public health education for learners nationally and around the world. Read Article Open details for Brown launches online-only master’s degree in public health Alumni & Friends Health care and haircuts: Bringing preventative measures to the neighborhood August 11, 2021 In her mission for more equitable health care, Dr. Marshala Lee MD’11 is using every tool she can: mentoring students, educating patients, even training local barbers. Read Article Open details for Health care and haircuts: Bringing preventative measures to the neighborhood Related Links Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute School of Public Health website Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search School of Public Health Open details for School of Public Health Bookmark this Page