Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Date December 7, 2020 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email A look back: 2020 highlights From providing emergency support to students during a global pandemic to game-changing research in malaria, we're looking back at some important accomplishments supported by Brown donors in a year that was anything but ordinary. Few years have tested our resilience and strength like 2020. Despite the adversity we've faced, Brown University was able to have a banner year. We came together as a community to support one another, made path-breaking discoveries, and invested in the people that make the whole of Brunonia better and brighter. One area that galvanized Brown faculty, students, staff, and community members in particular this year was diversity, equity, and inclusion. President Christina H. Paxson’s 2020 Financial Report opens with a summary of the ways in which the University made progress with its commitment to creating peaceful, just, and prosperous societies. View the 2020 Financial Report As we close the books on a year wrought with unpredictability, here's a look back at some of the other moments worth celebrating and the achievements that were made possible through the BrownTogether campaign. Increasing the number of professorships Brown made strong headway in deepening its academic bench with top-flight educators. With generous support from alumni, parents, and friends, the University created 15 new endowed faculty positions, representing professorships at various levels in brain science, economics, medicine, and international affairs. Two of these were leadership positions: the directorship of the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society and the directorship of the Howard R. Swearer Center for Public Service. These new additions bring the total professorships established during the BrownTogether campaign to 90. + Learn more about endowed professorships and how Brown is investing in its faculty. Taking action to address climate change In September, Brown announced the Climate Solutions Initiative, a three-year undertaking to study and reduce roadblocks to progress in the fight against climate change. Partially funded by an anonymous donor, this will be a joint effort among the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society (IBES), the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, and the Office of the Provost. The goal is to combat the forces that seek to maintain the status quo and inhibit transformational change. Among the leaders of this initiative is J. Timmons Roberts, whose collaborative work is uncovering the depth and breadth of climate misinformation. + Learn more about the work of IBES and the Watson Institute. Brown researchers discover promising lead for malaria vaccine In April, Brown researchers made headlines with their discovery of a potential "kill switch" for malaria. Dr. Jonathan Kurtis, the Stanley M. Aronson Professor of Pathobiology and Laboratory Medicine at the Warren Alpert Medical School and laboratory director of the Center for International Health Research at Rhode Island Hospital, has worked with a team to identify antibodies that can trigger malarial cells to self destruct, causing the parasite cells living in human red blood cells to ostensibly program their own death. With these findings, researchers now have a new target to attack the deadly parasite that could be used to develop a new vaccine. Dr. Kurtis’s endowed faculty position and donor support for biomedical research has made this work possible. + Learn more about how you can support pioneering discoveries at Brown. Supporting our students in remote learning As the coronavirus quickly began to spread throughout the country in mid March, the University made the decision to pivot to full distance learning. For many of Brown's most vulnerable students, leaving campus brought with it unexpected financial challenges and expenses. Helping them meet those needs was the might of the Brown community. Alumni, parents, families, and friends of the University answered the call with their contributions to the newly-created Student Emergency Support Fund. With their support, we were able to provide assistance for moving and travel expenses, technology requirements for remote learning, and support students facing food insecurity while away from campus. + Find out how you can support today's students where it's most needed through The Brown Fund. Researchers at Brown are developing innovative ways to combat the pandemic, including creating designs for a 3D-printed ventilator. Researchers respond to COVID As COVID-19 rapidly spread from country to country, the world scrambled to find solutions and ways to respond to this unparalleled situation. With top researchers from a myriad of fields—including public health, computer science, engineering, and biomedical research—Brown was well-positioned to help provide those solutions and develop innovative ways to combat the pandemic. Brown awarded funding to 15 teams of faculty researchers as part of its new COVID-19 Research Seed Fund. Projects range from at-home COVID-19 tests to 3D-printed ventilators to antiviral drugs for treatment. The COVID-19 Research Seed Fund was supported by the President's Response Fund, created by the Corporation to address unexpected and urgent needs resulting from the pandemic. Bringing student veterans to College Hill In the fall, Brown announced a $20 million gift that would help increase the number of student veterans on campus. The generous gift from U.S. Army veteran and Brown parent Joseph P. Healy P’22, P’24 will create a permanent scholarship endowment for veterans. The endowment will help accelerate Brown's plan to double the number of U.S. military veterans enrolled as undergraduates by 2024. + Learn more about supporting financial aid at Brown. New Cancer Center established at Brown Continuing its commitment to cancer research and treatment, the University announced the creation of a new Cancer Center. From understanding how cancer develops and grows to developing new therapeutics for patients, the new center sets out to explore and tackle a broad spectrum of research. Tapped to lead the center as its inaugural director is Dr. Wafik S. El-Deiry—associate dean for oncologic sciences and a professor of medical science, pathology, and laboratory medicine—who has garnered international recognition for his work in the field. + Learn more about how Brown is supporting biomedical research. A design rendering of the future locker room suites for Meehan Auditorium. Meehan Auditorium renovations move forward During a year with many campus construction projects being put on hold, donor support has kept the long-awaited upgrade of Meehan Auditorium moving forward—providing a state-of-the-art home for men's and women's hockey. The $7.25 million phase one of the project includes the creation of the Brown Hockey Locker Room Center, with locker room suites for both teams and a sports medicine room, along with renovations to the Davis Lounge. So far, $5.3 million has been raised. Renovations will begin in spring 2021 and will be completed by August 2021 before the 2021-22 season, with timing depending on fundraising progress. + Learn more about supporting Brown Athletics. Tags Athletics Biomedical Research BrownTogether Campaign COVID-19 Diversity & Inclusion Environment Faculty Financial Aid Giving Research Students Veterans Related News Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center May 25, 2022 Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 Read Article Open details for Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search A look back: 2020 highlights Open details for A look back: 2020 highlights Bookmark this Page