Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell News and features Alumni news Look them up: young alumni in tech Upcoming events CC of Cape Cod 2022 Annual Meeting June 1 @ 6:30 pm The ABCs of NFTs June 2 @ 11:30 am CAA Northern California - Cornellian Happy Hour June 2 @ 3:30 pm Class of 1978 Knickerbocker Rooftop Reception June 3 @ 5:30 pm Cornell Club of Boston - Cranberry Bog Tour June 4 @ 10:00 am More Events Explore stories by topic 150 Words Alumni news Alumni profile Career support Coming Back Cornelliana Diversity Encounters Gathering Giving International Leadership Learning My Big Red Summer Networking Recognition Students Teaching Traveling Volunteering Voting Join events near you Return to campus or find a Big Red party in your own neighborhood. SEE EVENTS Plant lover and Earth advocate When Sandra Knapp PhD ’86 started her undergraduate career at Pomona College in Claremont, California, she was set on taking a course in marine science. Having grown up in the desert in rural New Mexico, the ocean held great allure for Sandy. But when she was not able to get in because the course was … Read more April 21, 2022 S is for scarce Alex Colvin PhD ’99, Kenneth F. Kahn ’69 Dean of the ILR School, hosted “Supply Chain in Chaos” on April 14. Dean Colvin interviewed two manufacturing leaders with decades of experience working to source, produce, and deliver apparel to clients around the world. Duncan Scott ’81, senior vice president of Strategic Sourcing and Quality for … Read more April 19, 2022 Sustainable fashions at the Beyond Waste Prom Photos by Sreang “C” Hok Cornell’s first-ever Beyond Waste Prom on March 26 marked the culmination of a two-month long sustainability campaign. Students from across campus showed up at the Straight in their favorite hand-me-down, thrifted, borrowed, or reused clothing to enjoy music, dancing, a paper-free photo booth, and dinner and dessert. Here we showcase … Read more March 30, 2022 Recent grads on a mission to support Ukraine Mark Kreynovich ’19 and Dillon Carroll ’20 were first-year roommates and best friends at Cornell, and share a commitment to service, along with a birthday: February 25. They’re also now sharing an extraordinary journey. Mark, who was born in Kharkiv, Ukraine, and Dillon, who grew up in Ridgewood, NJ, dropped everything to travel to Eastern … Read more March 23, 2022 Look them up: young alumni in tech As Cornell Tech celebrates its 10th year, the school has become a global hub for tech innovation. Over the past decade, Cornell Tech has helped make NYC the second most valuable startup ecosystem in the world, after Silicon Valley. Cornell Tech opened its campus on Roosevelt Island just five years ago, with 30 faculty and … Read more March 23, 2022 Show More Follow us on Twitter Stay connected with Cornell alumni everywhere FOLLOW US Libe Slope and McGraw Tower in fall. Photo: Lindsay France/Cornell Marketing Group Come back to Cornell Revisiting Cornell and Ithaca—There are so many reasons to come back! COME BACK An aerial view in fall of central campus with Cayuga Lake in the background. Photo: Jason Koski/Cornell Marketing Group Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022