Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Learning Search Upcoming Events CC of Cape Cod 2022 Annual Meeting June 1 @ 6:30 pm The ABCs of NFTs June 2 @ 11:30 am CAA Northern California - Cornellian Happy Hour June 2 @ 3:30 pm Class of 1978 Knickerbocker Rooftop Reception June 3 @ 5:30 pm Cornell Club of Boston - Cranberry Bog Tour June 4 @ 10:00 am More Events Explore stories by topic 150 Words Alumni news Alumni profile Career support Coming Back Cornelliana Diversity Encounters Gathering Giving International Leadership Learning My Big Red Summer Networking Recognition Students Teaching Traveling Volunteering Voting Join events near you Return to campus or find a Big Red party in your own neighborhood. SEE EVENTS S is for scarce Alex Colvin PhD ’99, Kenneth F. Kahn ’69 Dean of the ILR School, hosted “Supply Chain in Chaos” on April 14. Dean Colvin interviewed two manufacturing leaders with decades of experience working to source, produce, and deliver apparel to clients around the world. Duncan Scott ’81, senior vice president of Strategic Sourcing and Quality for … Read more By Linda Copman April 19, 2022 Felix Heisel: building a sustainable future How can mushrooms be part of sustainable building construction? Felix Heisel, assistant professor in the College of Architecture, Art, and Planning (AAP), has one answer. Heisel, director of the AAP Circular Construction Lab, and Faculty Fellow with the Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability, arrived at Cornell in January 2020 and knows that collaboration across disciplines … Read more By Kaitlin Provost October 13, 2021 Facing our urban future: what to expect Hundreds of Cornellians in cities and communities around the world tuned in to Virtual Reunion 2021 on June 11, to hear from a panel of experts about The Future of Cities. While online participants waited for the live stream to begin, Bobbie Horowitz ’61 typed in the chat, “Hope the future of my city (NYC) … Read more By Linda Copman June 16, 2021 Requiring the COVID-19 vaccine: insights for businesses More than 900 viewers tuned in on May 4 to hear Cornell alumni and industry experts representing both management and workers discuss whether U.S. employers should require their employees to be vaccinated. As of May 7, 2021, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that about 150.4 million people have received at least one dose of … Read more By Linda Copman May 10, 2021 XR is the future Extended Reality, or XR, uses a variety of computer technologies to immerse the viewer in a virtual experience. These technologies provide viewers with more information—to enhance their senses and transport them more fully into the virtual environment. Viewers may employ special eyewear, headsets, or handheld devices, or simply view the XR-enhanced content on their phone … Read more By Linda Copman April 14, 2021 Hatfield Lecture 2021: Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella Over 1,000 alumni, students, and Cornell community members tuned in to hear from Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and Cornell University President Martha E. Pollack on March 24, for the 2021 Hatfield Lecture. Pollack and Nadella discussed how organizations can move forward beyond the pandemic, the future of work, and how technology can help solve some … Read more By Kaitlin Provost April 2, 2021 CALS Dean Ben Houlton may have a billion-ton solution to climate change Benjamin Z. Houlton, Ronald P. Lynch Dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS) at Cornell, is on a mission to use science to find solutions to climate change. And, like David in the epic battle against Goliath, Houlton is using rocks. In a nutshell, Houlton’s work involves capturing carbon from the sky … Read more By Linda Copman February 25, 2021 Truth matters: a conversation with Republican John Kasich As part of its ongoing effort to encourage bipartisan dialogue and problem solving, the Cornell Institute for Politics and Global Affairs (IOPGA) and Government Department co-hosted a conversation with former Governor John Kasich and former Representative Susan Molinari (R-NY)—two life-long Republicans who both endorsed Joe Biden’s Presidential bid at the Democratic National Convention in August … Read more By Linda Copman February 22, 2021 Dr. Maria Van Kerkhove ’99 is on a mission to save lives As part of her work with the World Health Organization (WHO), Dr. Maria Van Kerkhove ’99 provides regular updates on the COVID-19 pandemic and routinely answers common questions about the virus for members of the press. On January 26, she shared her expert insights with members of the Cornell community. Dr. Van Kerkhove shared her … Read more By Linda Copman January 29, 2021 Weill Cornell Medicine is at the frontline of vaccine development Images courtesy of Weill Cornell Medicine, Stronger Together Researchers at Weill Cornell Medicine (WCM), at dozens of sites across the U.S., and in labs around the world are collaborating in the race to test treatments and develop effective vaccines for COVID-19. On Thursday, August 20, infectious disease specialists on the frontlines hosted “COVID Clinical Trials: … Read more By Linda Copman August 27, 2020 Show More Plan your Reunion Reunion has something for everyone. Browse events and create a custom itinerary to make the most of your weekend on the Hill! Can't make it in person? Choose the Virtual Reunion package during registration and get access to featured livestream events. Make your schedule Ho Plaza looking south from atop McGraw Tower. Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022