Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Volunteer Opportunities Connect with fellow Brunonians in meaningful ways and help shape the future of your alma mater in the process. Every contribution of your time and talent is welcome. Breadcrumb Home Volunteer Sub Navigation In This Section Opportunities All Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Group Volunteers Brown Annual Fund Volunteers Brown Club Volunteers Brown Medical Community Volunteers Career & Mentoring Volunteers Class Volunteers Parents Leadership Council Tools & Resources Recognition Volunteer Opportunities Connect with fellow Brunonians in meaningful ways and help shape the future of your alma mater in the process. Every contribution of your time and talent is welcome. What can we do together? Help plan and execute an alumni event. Become a social media ambassador. Encourage others to give back to Brown. No matter your role, as a Brown volunteer, you can deepen your connection to the University while also gaining new skills and expanding your social and professional networks. All Volunteer Opportunities - Browse and Search Explore ideas for your future volunteer path or learn how to start getting involved as a Brown volunteer. This collection of 40+ volunteer options will help you find an experience that suits your schedule, aligns with your interests, and taps into your expertise. Explore Affinity Group Volunteers Find the volunteer opportunity that appeals to your sense of identity and community. BearShare Social Media Ambassadors Spread the word about the great things happening at Brown with just one click or tap. Boost the profile of the University and help keep friends and alumni connected to Brown. Brown Annual Fund Volunteers Encourage others to give back to Brown by becoming an Annual Fund volunteer. Brown Club Volunteers Choose from a range of volunteer opportunities with regional Brown Clubs around the world. Brown Medical Community Volunteers Multiple opportunities exist for alumni, parents, and friends to get more involved with The Warren Alpert Medical School. Career & Mentoring Volunteers As a volunteer, you can support the career development and advancement of students and alumni. Class Volunteers Help classmates shape opportunities for alumni to reconnect—with Brown and with each other. Parents Leadership Council Through their philanthropic support and volunteer outreach, members of the Parents Leadership Council have made The Parents Fund the top parent fundraising program in the Ivy League. “ I love volunteering; I go out of my way to do it. It’s rewarding for me to give back to the community. I’m always amazed by what students are thinking about, the initiatives they’re taking up, and the impact they want to make on the world. ” Yen Tran ’14 Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Volunteer Opportunities Open details for Volunteer Opportunities Bookmark this Page