Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Welcome Back You are here: Home1 / Events2 / Welcome Back Welcome Back Festival 2022 Welcome Back Festival Monday, August 22, 2022 The Clemson Alumni Association and the Student Alumni Council invites you to join us for the premiere, kick-off event of the academic year at Clemson University, the Welcome Back Festival. Each year, the festival features local vendors offering a variety of merchandise and food on College Avenue in downtown Clemson, SC. The festival transforms downtown Clemson into a massive street celebration of fun, food, and fellowship. It also offers area businesses the opportunity to display their services and products to students, welcome them back for another academic year, and share their Tiger spirit. All proceeds from the festival contribute to the SAC Scholarship Endowment Fund, established in 1987 to assist future students attending Clemson University. If you are interested in being a vendor for the 2022 Welcome Back Festival, contact Aly Friend at alysonf@clemson.edu. If your business wishes to participate, please complete the application online no later than Friday, July 30, 2022. If your application is approved, you will receive an email confirming your participation in the festival. Want to help with the SAC Scholarship Endowment? In the event you are interested in supporting the Student Alumni Council Scholarship Endowment Fund, you can click here or go to https://iamatiger.clemson.edu/giving and use the “Search for a Fund” feature typing “Student Alumni Council (S.A.C.) Scholarship Endowment” as the search criteria. A gift of any amount can help make a difference in the lives of Clemson students. We thank you for your support of Clemson University and we can’t wait to CU on campus soon. View All Upcoming Events Find a Club in your Area Virtual Engagement Opportunities Event Photography Reconnect to Clemson Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info