Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Students Search Upcoming Events CC of Cape Cod 2022 Annual Meeting June 1 @ 6:30 pm The ABCs of NFTs June 2 @ 11:30 am CAA Northern California - Cornellian Happy Hour June 2 @ 3:30 pm Class of 1978 Knickerbocker Rooftop Reception June 3 @ 5:30 pm Cornell Club of Boston - Cranberry Bog Tour June 4 @ 10:00 am More Events Explore stories by topic 150 Words Alumni news Alumni profile Career support Coming Back Cornelliana Diversity Encounters Gathering Giving International Leadership Learning My Big Red Summer Networking Recognition Students Teaching Traveling Volunteering Voting Join events near you Return to campus or find a Big Red party in your own neighborhood. SEE EVENTS Sustainable fashions at the Beyond Waste Prom Photos by Sreang “C” Hok Cornell’s first-ever Beyond Waste Prom on March 26 marked the culmination of a two-month long sustainability campaign. Students from across campus showed up at the Straight in their favorite hand-me-down, thrifted, borrowed, or reused clothing to enjoy music, dancing, a paper-free photo booth, and dinner and dessert. Here we showcase … Read more By Linda Copman March 30, 2022 Cornell is a gateway to opportunity for Ukrainian student Maryna Mullerman DVM ’25 says Cornell has always been her dream school. Growing up in Ukraine, she spent many summers on her grandparents’ farm outside Kharkiv, where she enjoyed fishing, catching insects, and observing wildlife. She says she knew she wanted to be veterinarian by the time she was eight years old. She began researching … Read more By Linda Copman March 8, 2022 Angela Loh ’23 is engineering for impact At the end of her first semester in the College of Engineering at Cornell, Angela Loh ’23 connected with Alan Hsiao ’21, who shares her passion for engineering for impact. In spring 2020, just a few weeks before Cornell transitioned to remote learning in response to the pandemic, Angela and Alan recruited four like-minded students … Read more By Linda Copman December 3, 2021 Some things are better together: extracurriculars @ Cornell When students returned to campus this fall, they were looking forward to their classes—and to the full range of events and activities that make Cornell Cornell. From beekeeping to roller skating to rowing on the lake, students were excited to come back together for their favorite extracurriculars. For many groups, fall 2021 is the first … Read more By Linda Copman October 6, 2021 Plan your Reunion Reunion has something for everyone. Browse events and create a custom itinerary to make the most of your weekend on the Hill! Can't make it in person? Choose the Virtual Reunion package during registration and get access to featured livestream events. Make your schedule Ho Plaza looking south from atop McGraw Tower. Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022