Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Alumni Association Toggle navigation Site Menu Membership Join Today Renew Your Membership Membership Overview Why Become a Member? Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks Alumni Directory My oneFSU Dashboard Students Student Alumni Association Join SAA SAA Membership Perks My oneFSU Dashboard Honors Alumni Ambassadors Award Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Legacy Scholarship Grads Made Good The Inspire Award Community Alumni Networks Alumni Career Services Events Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Alumni Travel Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Webinar Resources Virtual Alumni Resources Support Join, Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Give to the Legacy Scholarship Give to the FSU Alumni Association Give to the FSU Alumni Association Endowment Give to FSU Academic Programs Purchase a Westcott Plaza Brick Support the Alumni Ambassadors Fund About About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Annual Highlights Alumni Center & Events Employment Frequently Asked Questions Financial Information Map and Directions Sponsorship Opportunities FSU Alumni Center Westcott Brick Program Leave a legacy with a Westcott Brick Overview & Pricing Map of Westcott Plaza Preview my Brick FAQ Westcott Plaza has been home to beloved Florida State University traditions for over a century. Most alumni remember celebrating 21st birthdays, participating in their class ring ceremony or posting photos in their cap and gown around the plaza. Purchase a commemorative brick surrounding the iconic Westcott fountain to cement your place in FSU's rich history. Brick Installation Schedule: 2022 Brick Installations: Late April Late July Late September Orders Placed By: Friday, March 18, 2022 Friday, June 17, 2022 Wednesday, August 17, 2022 Pricing Options Outer Ring $300 for Members $400 for Non-members $350 for Brick + Membership Buy Now! Inner Ring $600 for Members $700 for Non-members $650 for Brick + Membership Buy Now! Base of Seal $1200 for Members $1300 for Non-members $1250 for Brick + Membership Buy Now! Recent Grad Package $340 Brick in Outer Ring 1-Year membership included Buy Now! Outer Ring (sections 1-12) $300 for Members $400 for Non-Members $350 for Brick + Membership Inner Ring (sections A-F) $600 for Members $700 for Non-Members $650 for Brick + Membership Base of the FSU Seal $1200 for Members $1300 for Non-Members $1250 for Brick + Membership Want to see how yours would look? Using the tool below, type your inscription in the template below! Frequently Asked Questions Do I have to be a graduate of FSU to get a brick? No. Everyone is welcome to purchase a brick at Westcott Plaza! When will my brick be installed? Please refer to our installation schedule located under the Overview & Pricing tab above. Can I request a specific location and how do I go about doing so? As a courtesy, we are happy to accept requests for a specific area of the plaza. We will do our best to accommodate these requests, but we cannot guarantee a specific brick location. To request that your brick be installed in a certain area of the plaza, please place your order online and then e-mail the location request to westcottbricks@fsu.edu. Please note that we will not move a brick previously installed to accommodate a new brick unless you purchased all bricks involved. Can I reserve a brick/spot for later? We cannot reserve bricks in advance. If you would like to purchase a brick now for inscription later, you will need to submit a placeholder inscription to be inscribed on the brick now. You can later pay a replacement fee to have the inscription changed. Can I replace my brick with a new inscription at a later date? Yes, you can. You will need to pay a $50 replacement fee to replace your brick. You can do so by calling the FSU Alumni Association at 850-644-2761. Is there a certificate I can get to give to someone announcing I bought them a brick as a gift? Yes! We have an electronic certificate we can e-mail you. Please send a request for an electronic certificate to westcottbricks@fsu.edu. We also offer a card, similar to a greeting card, at no additional cost that you can give to your brick recipient. You can request that a card be mailed to you by e-mailing westcottbricks@fsu.edu. Will the person I am buying a brick for be told about it? No. We will only contact the purchaser of a brick regarding the transaction and installation. If you purchase a special package containing a membership and a brick, the gift recipient will receive information regarding their membership but not the brick. I included a replica tile with my order. When will it arrive? The replica tile is created at the same time as the brick. It will arrive via UPS around the same time that the brick is installed at Westcott Plaza. I cannot remember where my brick is located? How can I find out? Your brick location was sent in your confirmation email when you purchased your brick. If you cannot locate this, you can contact the FSU Alumni Association at westcottbricks@fsu.edu or 850-644-2761 for information on finding your brick. Is this tax deductible? A portion or all of your brick may be tax deductible. Please consult a tax professional for details. Do spaces count toward the character limit on a line of inscription for a brick? Yes. Anything that takes up space on the brick counts toward the character limit – letters, numbers, punctuation, spaces between letters. The character limit is 18 but I would like to do more characters on one line. Is that possible? Due to the width of the brick, we cannot fit more than 18 characters on one line. OFFICIAL PARTNERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Their generous support allows the FSU Alumni Association to provide programs, services and events to you. MEMBERS Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Member Perks Reward Zone Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks STUDENTS Student Alumni Association Join SAA Benefits of SAA Membership Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks HONORS Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award COMMUNITY Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Events Football HQ Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Travel Programs ABOUT US About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Sponsorship Opportunities ALUMNI CENTER Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions FSU Alumni Association 1030 W. Tennessee St. Tallahassee, FL 32304 Email Us (850) 644-2761 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright Close