Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Alumni-Elected Regents Schedule and Process Qualifications and Eligibility Nominations Campaigning and Voting Contact Information Procedures, Qualifications and Rules Procedures for Elections of Alumni-Elected Regents Qualifications for Alumni-Elected Regents Rules Governing Elections for Alumni-Elected Regents About the Board 2022 Election Information Alumni Update Form Alumni-Elected Regents In June 2016, Baylor welcomed the first Alumni-elected Regents to service on the Board. Alumni-elected Regents serve 3-year terms; however, the 2016 appointees were installed with 1-, 2- and 3-year terms to allow the election process to commence. The process outlined on this site governs the annual nomination, review, and selection of alumni-elected Regents. As Alumni-elected Regents complete their terms, the graduates of Baylor University will elect or re-elect Alumni-elected Regents to service. Explore Vote Now Schedule and Process Official Procedures, Qualifications and Rules About the Board Alumni Update Form Schedule and Process Back Qualifications and Eligibility Nominations Campaigning and Voting Contact Information Procedures, Qualifications and Rules Back Procedures for Elections of Alumni-Elected Regents Qualifications for Alumni-Elected Regents Rules Governing Elections for Alumni-Elected Regents About the Board 2022 Election Information Alumni Update Form General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678