Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Your Association The Yale Alumni Association connects alumni to each other and to the university. A dedicated staff partners with alumni leaders to create and foster these relationships, through events, programs, reunions, mentorship, educational travel, lifelong learning opportunities, service, and through collaborations with alumni affairs colleagues in the Graduate School and professional schools. Information Links About YAA What We Do Our mission is to enhance and renew the lifelong Yale experience for all alumni, whoever they are and wherever they may be. We strive to inspire new ideas, affiliations, friendships, professional fulfillment, and acts of service, around the world. Read More about What We Do DEI and the YAA Celebrating Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Yale Alumni Task Force on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion provides leadership on the development of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) strategies in existing alumni programming; leverages all forms of diversity to strengthen the alumni network; and recommends new programming and initiatives for the Yale alumni community. More Information Information Links Your Yale Alumni Benefits You spend only a few years on campus, but you’re a Yalie for life – and you enjoy the benefits that go with it. That includes alumni events on and off campus, access to a global network of regional Yale clubs as well as shared interest group and professional school chapters, educational and travel opportunities, and Yale communications such as YaleNews and the Yale Alumni Magazine. Read More about Alumni Benefits YAA Board of Governors YAA Board of Governors The chief advisory body for our association, the YAA Board of Governors sets the direction and goals for the YAA Assembly delegation and the association at large. The board leads alumni initiatives, recognizes outstanding volunteers and organizations through several award programs, and helps to build the leadership pipeline for the university as a whole. Staff The Yale Alumni Association is powered by you, but on a day-to-day basis, it’s run by a dedicated staff located in New Haven, with offices at Rose Alumni House and 1201 Chapel Street. Staff functions include administration, lifelong learning and travel, strategic initiatives, volunteer engagement and outreach, and groups supporting shared interest groups, regional clubs, and Yale College classes. News & Features Keep up with all the latest on Yale alumni, association programs and initiatives, and more by visiting our news page. Here you will find news related to the association, features and profiles on classmates from all Yale affiliations, and first-person stories written by your fellow alumni. It’s your one-stop shop for all the alumni news you need to know. Connect with the YAA Additional Links Need Help? Do you need information on services such as the online community, Yale College Reunions, regional clubs, awards, and more? Visit the YAA Help Center! Help Center Update Your Information Keep your contact information up to date so you don't miss out on events in your area or campus news of interest. You can update your contact information through the Online Alumni Community and manage your email preferences there as well. Log In Now Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page