Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Brown Medical Alumni Association Awards Breadcrumb Home Volunteer Volunteer Recognition Sub Navigation In This Section Alumni Service Award Association of Class Leaders Class of the Year Award Brown Annual Fund Class Participation Award Brown Annual Fund Class of the Year Award Brown Annual Fund Co-Chairs' Award Brown Annual Fund Young Alumni Award Brown Bear Award Brown Medical Alumni Association Awards H. Anthony Ittleson ’60 Award John Hope Award Joseph M. Fernandez ’85 Award Nan Tracy ’46 Award The William Rogers Award Young Alumni Service Award The Brown Medical Alumni Association sponsors a number of awards and honors to recognize distinguished alumni, faculty, and members of the community who support The Warren Alpert Medical School's mission and purpose. These awards are typically presented over Commencement-Reunion Weekend. This year's recipients will be presented their awards on Friday, May 27, 2022, as part of the Opening Celebration, the Medical School's kickoff to Commencement-Reunion Weekend. Early Achievement Award This award recognizes medical alumni (within 15 years of graduation) for outstanding service to the Medical School, their local community, or for a scientific or academic achievement. 2022 Recipient: Judy Jang ’03 MD ’07 Judy Jang, assistant dean of medicine, PLME advising, assistant professor of medicine, is a practicing nephrologist who oversees all aspects of Brown′s Program in Liberal Medical Education, which continues to admit, advise, train, retain and encourage lifelong learning and a well-rounded experience for students. Despite COVID, which was a tumultuous time for advising and provision of opportunities for PLME both in research and community service, Dean Jang has maintained her ability to provide the PLME with stable, professional, and competent continuity. Dean Judy Jang leads by example, serves tirelessly, and is the epitome of what the PLME aspires for our graduates at Brown. The next generation of PLMEs will continue to be among the best of the best physicians who will, most importantly, be well adjusted, happy, leaders in their own areas and life-long learners who will serve their communities. Previous Recipients Steven Rougas MD’09 RES ’13 Peter Lee ’94 MD ’05 PhD ’15 Barrett W. Bready ’99 MD ’03 Andrea A. (Anderson) Byrd ’96 MD’00 Stephen W. Gilheeney ’95 MMS’97 MD’99 Leslie B. Gordon SCM’91 MD/PhD’98 Rajiv Kumar ’05 MD’11 Neel T. Shah ’04 MD’09 Junior Alumni Award for Excellence in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion This award, first presented in 2021, recognizes medical alumni (within 10 years of graduation) who have demonstrated leadership in diversity, equity, and inclusion activities that have led to improving awareness and engagement related to diversity in medicine and/or health equity. 2022 Recipient: Michael Danielewicz ’14 MD’18 Dr. Michael Danielewicz is a board-certified family medicine physician and current geriatric medicine and palliative care fellow at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital. He is passionate about promoting equitable, inclusive, and affirming care for LGBTQ+ older adults. For the past two years, he has been at the forefront of an initiative to create a medical home for LGBTQ+ older adults at the Jefferson Center for Healthy Aging, located at the edge of Philadelphia’s historic “Gayborhood.” This durable, intersectional, multi-faceted initiative started with a focus on cultural humility and has now expanded to longitudinal training in medical competencies relevant to LGBTQ+ patients for faculty and staff. It has engaged Jefferson leadership, faculty, staff, medical trainees, and members of local LGBTQ+ communities to create safe and affirming settings for care. Dr. Danielewicz has also been involved in efforts to improve care for LGBTQ+ older adults on a national level. He is collaborating with leaders from the American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine and the American Geriatrics Society on initiatives to integrate LGBTQ+ education into fellowship training competencies. He has presented at local and national conferences on the challenges and resiliency of LGBTQ+ older adults and efforts toward inclusivity. Previous Recipient Marshala Lee MD’11 Senior Alumni Award for Excellence in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion This award, first presented in 2021, honors alumni who have excelled in their careers, making significant contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion locally, regionally, nationally, or internationally. 2022 Recipient: Augustus A. White, III MD PhD ’57DMS’97 hon., P’98 Gus White, the Ellen and Melvin Gordon Distinguished Professor of Medical Education at Harvard Medical School, has been part of many firsts in his life. As the first African American medical student at Stanford University, surgical resident at Yale University, professor of medicine at Yale, and chair at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, he has seen it all in his 50-plus years in the medical profession. Dr. White continuously explores the reality of bias in medicine, its effects on patients and how better training can help improve disparities in delivery of care. Dr. White is a Bronze Star recipient earned while stationed as a Captain in the U.S. Army Medical Corps in Vietnam. He has focused on the national fight for equality in health care and published the book Seeing Patients: Unconscious Bias in Health Care. He was the president and co-founder of the J. Robert Gladden Society, whose mission “is to increase diversity within the orthopaedic profession and promote the highest quality musculoskeletal care for all people.” A noted author in his medical specialty, White co-wrote (with Dr. Manohar M. Panjabi) “Clinical Biomechanics of the Spine and Biomechanics of the Musculoskeletal System.” White also wrote “Your Aching Back: A Doctor′s Guide to Relief; Back Care; Advances in Spinal Fusion: Molecular Science, Biomechanics and Clinical Management, and Clinical Biometrics of the Spine.” In 2006, White was awarded the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons Diversity Award for his life′s work, and his contributions to his field. Previous Recipient: Galen Henderson MD’93 The Ruth B. Sauber Distinguished Alumni Lectureship This award honors medical alumni who embody the philosophy that medicine is a socially responsible human service profession and have contributed significantly to further the personal and professional development of medical students as well as the community-at-large. This lectureship was established in tribute to Sauber’s uninterrupted 23 years as Medical Student Affairs Officer. 2022 Recipient: Kavita M. Babu ’96 MD’00 RES’04 Kavita Babu is a professor of emergency medicine at the UMass Chan Medical School and serves as the chief of the Division of Medical Toxicology and the chief opioid officer for the University of Massachusetts Memorial Health Care. Dr. Babu has worked tirelessly to help combat the opioid epidemic. Since becoming the chief opioid officer for UMass Memorial Health in 2018 she has launched and directed the Road to Care Mobile Addiction Service in Worcester, MA, a program that provides ambulatory and addiction treatment to individuals experiencing homelessness and those with opioid use disorders. She has also facilitated naloxone distribution through Worcester EMS, increased access to medication for addiction treatment, taught X-waiver courses to more than 200 physicians on buprenorphine prescribing, and implemented medication disposal boxes at the University and Memorial campuses which have led to the return of more than one ton of medications. She has also created EHR tools to streamline the use of buprenorphine for ED patients and methadone and buprenorphine for inpatients. One of Dr. Babu′s largest contributions has been teaching the principles of emergency medicine and medical toxicology with a focus on teaching the delivery of evidence-based care, while emphasizing clarity of communication with patients and their caregivers. Her previous mentees are now division chiefs of medical toxicology, NIH-funded researchers, and award-winning academicians. Her work as an educator has led her to be invited to provide input into the core curriculum for all emergency medicine residents at the Society of Academic Emergency Medicine and serve as a representative to the American Board of Emergency Medicine Model Review Task Force and Toxicology Work Group. She was the first author on a 2019 New England Journal of Medicine review article entitled “Prevention of Opioid Overdose,” and she is recognized nationally as a content expert in regard to opioid safety and prevention of overdose deaths. She has served on the Governor′s Medical Education Working Group on Prescription Drug Misuse in Massachusetts, and as the director of the American College of Medical Toxicology Prescription Opioid Misuse Academy. Previous Recipients Kathleen Ferrer MD’95 Joel Selanikio MD’92 Joseph F. Amaral MD’81 RES’89 Stanley M. Aronson ADE’71 hon. DMS’07 hon., P’83 MD’87 Bruce M. Becker ’78 MD’81 Seth F. Berkley ’78 MD’81 Mark S. Blumenkranz ’72 MD’75 MMS’76, P’05, P’08 Nora Burgess ’74 MD’77 Atul Butte ’91 MMSc’95 MD’95 Anthony A. Caldamone ’72 MMS’75 MD’75, P’06 < Deborah A. DeHertogh ’74 MD’77 Karen Furie ’87 MD’90 RES’94 F’95, P’19 Arthur L. Horwich ’73 MD’75 DMS’14 hon. Julianne Ip ’75 MD’78 RES’81, P’18 Kerry J. Kelly MD’77 Pardon R. Kenney ’72 MMS’75 MD’75 RES’80, P’03 Jonathan D. Kurtis ’89 PhD’95 MD’96 Sandra Nusinoff Lehrman ’69 MD’76 David C. Lyden MD’89 Lloyd Minor ’79 MD’82, P’17 Charles N. Mock ’77 MD’80 RES’88 Steven A. Rasmussen ’74 MMSc ’77 MD ’77, P’17 MD’17 Griffin Platt Rodgers ’76 MMS’79 MD’79 Bonnie R. Saks ’72 MD’75 Peter A. Thompson ’80 MD’84, P’15 Alan J. Zametkin MD’77 The W. W. Keen Award Named for William Williams Keen—Class of 1859 and one of Brown’s most distinguished and well-known alumni in the medical profession—this award recognizes outstanding contributions (lifetime or a single achievement) to medicine, encompassing research, education, leadership, or extraordinary contributions to patient care or public health. 2022 Recipient: Julianne Y. Ip ’75 MD’78 RES’81, P’18 Julianne Ip was the associate dean of medicine for the PLME from 1985 to 2021. Her time at Brown spanned, in total, 50 years, and the Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME), as it exists today, is largely due to her leadership. Dean Ip′s greatest legacy lies in the careers of the PLME graduates she mentored and nurtured over her 36 year career as the associate dean of medicine.. Her vision for the program was "enrichment not acceleration," with a focus on the "L" in liberal medical education, was far ahead of its time. As Brown, Providence, and medicine itself changed, Dean Ip kept the PLME on the cutting edge, attracting some of the most unique candidates in the country to Brown for an eight-year journey. She cared for students during their undergraduate years, from direct advising to program development and enrichment, and she created an environment that captured the spirit of the Open Curriculum and fostered development and growth. In recent years, she oversaw the development of a robust PLME curriculum, with courses on medical humanities and a senior seminar in scientific medicine. She grew the PLME′s international programs and personally oversaw the exchange of ideas, knowledge, and learning across borders. Her leadership was unparalleled, her advocacy for her students unmatched. She dedicated 50 years of her life to learning, then teaching and leading at Brown. Her efforts have had a sustained, meaningful effect on all who went through the PLME, and her impact will be felt long after her retirement as her students continue to change the face of medicine. Previous Recipients Mercedes Domenech, MD, PhD Adrian F. Gardner ’98 MD’03 Levi C. Adams ADE’75 hon. Eli Y. Adashi ADE’06 hon. Stanley M. Aronson ADE’71 hon. DMS’07 hon., P’83 MD’87 Frederick W. Barnes, Jr. John T. Barrett ’39, P’67, P’74, GP’03 Elisha Bartlett 1826 Irving A. Beck ’32 Richard W. Besdine ADE’02 hon. Mark S. Blumenkranz ’72 MMSc’76 MD’75, P’05, P’08 Judi D. Braman Brown Physicians, Inc. Hermon Bumpus 1912 Alexander M. Burgess 1906, P’33 Kenneth G. Burton 1927 Anthony A. Caldamone ’72 MD’75 MMS’75 Harold G. Calder 1902, P’36 Charles C.J. Carpenter Charles V. Chapin 1876 Marlene Cutitar ’83 MD’86 RES’92 Ernest M. Daland 1912 Ronald A. DeLellis ’62 Richard H. Dollase ’62, P’86, GP’18 Michael G. Ehrlich Allan D. Erickson John R. Evrard ADE’74, P’71 Edward R. Feller PMD’03 Edwin N. Forman ’56, P’92 Marshall N. Fulton 1920 Pierre M. Galletti ADE’68 hon. Milton Hamolsky ADE’64 hon. Arthur I. Holleb ’41 W.W. Keen 1859 Pardon R. Kenney ’72 MD’75 MMS’75 RES’80 David C. Lewis ’57, P’84, P’87 Governor Gina M. Raimondo Charles J. McDonald James McIlwain William Oh ADE’75 hon. Peter J. Panton ’79 MD’82, PMD’15, PMD’21 Robert G. Petersdorf ’48 Walter C. Quevedo, Jr. PhD’56 Henry T. Randall Stephen R. Smith ADE’81 hon., P’01 MD’06 Walter R. Thayer, Jr. ADE’66 hon. Sanford W. Udis ’41, P’72 MAT’73, P’75 George W. Waterman 1915 J. Walter Wilson 1918, PhD 1921, P’44 Edward J. Wing ADE’99 hon. Artemis Joukowsky Award This award recognizes a non-physician for long-term, dedicated, and meritorious service to the Medical School. It honors those whose devotion to the mission, beliefs, and aspirations of the Medical School have improved the lives of its students, faculty, alumni, and patients. Previous Recipients Levi C. Adams ADE’75 hon. Stephen R. Ehrlich ’55 and Mary Ann Ehrlich Artemis A.W. Joukowsky ’55 LLD’85 hon. Herbert M. Kaplan LHD ’11 hon. Marie J. Langlois ’64 LLD’92 hon. Samuel M. Mencoff ’78 and Ann S. Mencoff P’11, P’15 Ruth J. Simmons LHD ’12 hon. Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown Medical Alumni Association Awards Open details for Brown Medical Alumni Association Awards Bookmark this Page