Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Medical Reunion Weekend 2022 Schedule of Events Medical School Reunion Weekend 2022 is here! Though we are celebrating class years ending in 2 or 7, and the Class of MD'20, there are ways for everyone to join us for the festivities! Breadcrumb Home Events Medical Reunion Weekend Sub Navigation In This Section Schedule of Events All times are EDT. Friday, May 27, 2022 4 – 8:30 p.m. Medical School Registration The Warren Alpert Medical School, The Herbert M. Kaplan Atrium, 222 Richmond Street Stop by to pick up your nametag(s) and a schedule of events. 4 – 6 p.m. Student-Guided Medical School Tours The Warren Alpert Medical School, The Herbert M. Kaplan Atrium, 222 Richmond Street The Medical School building will be open for student-guided tours every 30 minutes. 5:30 – 7 p.m. Dean’s Circle Reception South Street Landing, Upper Turbine Hall, 350 Eddy Street The Brown Medical Annual Fund (BMAF) is the foundation for innovative medical education. This event recognizes members of the Dean's Circle, whose leadership support provides students with the resources needed to pursue a variety of research, educational, and clinical experiences. By invitation only. 7 – 8:30 p.m. Opening Celebration Watch Live The Warren Alpert Medical School, The Herbert M. Kaplan Atrium, 222 Richmond Street Join the Brown medical community to kick off the weekend’s festivities. During this celebration, we will congratulate our newest graduates from the MD Class of 2022 and their families, and toast medical alumni and members of MD’20. This reception includes remarks by President Christina Paxson, Dean of Medicine and Biological Sciences Mukesh Jain, and the presentation of the annual Brown Medical Alumni Association recognition awards to: Kavita M. Babu ’96 MD’00 RES’04 – The Ruth B. Sauber Distinguished Alumni Award Michael Danielewicz ’14 MD’18 – Junior Alumni Award for Excellence in Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Augustus A. White, III MD PhD ’57DMS’97 hon., P’98 – Senior Alumni Award for Excellence in Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Julianne Y. Ip ’75 MD’78 RES’81, P’18 – The W.W. Keen Award Judy Jang ’03 MD’07 – Early Achievement Award For those attending Campus Dance, we will offer a complimentary shuttle up to George Street (between Brown and Thayer Streets) until 10 p.m. Saturday, May 28, 2022 8:30 a.m. – noon Medical School Registration Smith-Buonanno Hall, Lobby outside of Room 106, 95 Cushing Street Stop by to pick up your nametag(s) and a schedule of events. 9 – 10 a.m. Tackling the Opioid Crisis Together The Ruth B. Sauber Distinguished Alumni Lectureship Watch Live Smith-Buonanno Hall, Room 106, 95 Cushing Street; Watch the livestream here. Join us for a conversation about the evolution of the opioid crisis, evidence-based care that decreases mortality, and innovative community-based solutions to care for patients at high-risk for overdose death. This lecture will be presented by: Kavita M. Babu ’96 MD’00 RES’04, Division Chief, Medical Toxicology and Professor of Emergency Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School A reception immediately follows this lecture. 11 a.m. – noon The War on Medicine – How the Media and Politicians Undermine Science The Charles O. Cooke, MD, Distinguished Visiting Lectureship Watch Live Smith-Buonanno Hall, Room 106, 95 Cushing Street Medical experts play an important role in educating the public about health-related issues, particularly during crisis situations. During the pandemic, politicians and the media attacked science on a myriad of topics from vaccines and treatments to mask-wearing, testing, and lockdowns. Join this panel of Brown-affiliated physicians to discuss what communication strategies are needed to become a trusted source of information, and how to battle the spread of misinformation. Elizabeth Goldberg, MD, Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, Associate Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice Scott Rivkees, MD, Professor of the Practice, Brown University School of Public Health and former Florida Surgeon General Marc K. Siegel, MD ’78, P’24, Clinical Professor of Medicine, Medical Director of Doctor Radio at NYU Langone Health and a medical correspondent for Fox News (moderator) Karen Tashima, MD, Professor of Medicine Noon – 3 p.m. Alumni Field Day Erickson Athletic Complex Fields Reunion classes, medical school alumni, and recent grads are all invited to this outdoor extravaganza! Catch up with friends under your class/school tents, take a pic with Bruno...or just relax and hang with fellow alumni. Kids of all ages can take the field in wiffle ball or kickball, enjoy live music, explore the Bruno Activity Zone, and more. Bring your own lunch if you did not buy tickets in advance. There is a cash bar and complimentary ice cream novelties. The Medical School will have its own tent for you to mix and mingle with fellow alumni. 3:30 – 4:30 p.m. Genomic Therapeutics: Seeking a Cure for Premature Aging The Frank and Joan Rothman Lecture Watch Live Salomon Center, Room 001 Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome is the most dramatic form of premature aging, and most cases are caused by a single nucleotide misspelling in the lamin A gene. An intense team effort to identify effective therapies has recently led to the first FDA-approved drug that provides significant benefit. But now greater promise is emerging in adapting RNA morpholino and DNA gene editing therapeutics. Francis Collins, MD, Acting Science Advisor to President Joe Biden, former Director of the National Institutes of Health, will present this talk. 2 – 3:30 p.m. Student-Guided Medical School Tours The Warren Alpert Medical School, The Herbert M. Kaplan Atrium, 222 Richmond Street The Medical School building will be open for student-guided tours every 30 minutes. 5:30 – 6:30 p.m. A Toast to Julianne Ip ’75 MD’78 RES’81, P’18 The Warren Alpert Medical School, 222 Richmond Street Join us to celebrate Dean Ip for her extraordinary service to Brown and the Program in Liberal Medical Education. 7 – 9 p.m. Medical Alumni Class Dinner The Warren Alpert Medical School, The Herbert M. Kaplan Atrium, 222 Richmond Street A party you don’t want to miss! Come enjoy a lively dinner with a New England flair amongst friends. This event, celebrating all Reunion classes ending in two and seven, and the members of MD’20, features a photo booth, great music, and lots of reminiscing. Sunday, May 29, 2022 9 a.m. Commencement Procession Faunce House, Waterman Street Feel the excitement and memories of your own graduation day come flooding back as you watch the MD Class of 2022 march to their Commencement ceremony at the First Unitarian Church. Better yet, join in! Alumni are welcome to march and join in the pomp and circumstance of the day. Line up at 9 a.m. and the procession will step off promptly at 9:30 a.m. (Anyone who rented regalia must return it to the parish house at the church immediately following the end of the procession). Important Parking and Shuttle Information: Parking at The Warren Alpert Medical School (222 Richmond Street) Metered spaces are available on several streets near the Medical School building, including Richmond Street, Elm Street, and Chestnut Street. Please adhere to posted signs regarding allowable hours and parking limitations. After 5 p.m. on Friday, all Brown surface lots are open and available for free parking. Parking is available at the garage adjacent to the Medical School building on Friday, May 27, and Saturday, May 28, for a fee. Shuttles Shuttle service will be provided to and from The Warren Alpert Medical School (222 Richmond Street) and George Street (between Brown and Thayer streets) from 5 to 10 p.m. on Friday, May 27, and from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday, May 28 and 29. Please note: This is a continuous, staggered shuttle loop with only three stops at 222 Richmond, George Street and 200 Dyer Street. Stay Connected: Update your profile Get the latest: follow the Brown Medical Alumni Association on Facebook Make your reunion gift to the Medical Annual Fund Note: All or portions of Brown University events and their participants may be captured via photography or video and used for news or Brown promotional purposes. Questions? Contact Ellen Schulte, Manager of Communications and Engagement, at +1 (401) 863-6030 or ellen_schulte@brown.edu. Related Links Reunions Commencement website Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Medical Reunion Weekend 2022 Schedule of Events Open details for Medical Reunion Weekend 2022 Schedule of Events Bookmark this Page