Skip to content Skip to main nav Guests Log in Sign up Search Keywords University of Miami | Toppel Career Center Custom Career Content Alumni Career Coaches for Alumni Industry / Career Communities for Alumni Agriculture, Food & Natural Resources Architecture Development & Construction Arts, Audio/Video Technology & Communications Business Management & Administration Education & Training Entrepreneurship Finance & Real Estate Government & Public Administration Health Science Hospitality & Tourism Human Services Information Technology Law, Public Safety, Corrections & Security Sports & Marketing STEM Featured Jobs + Employers Events Identity-Based Resources BIPOC Students & Alumni Collegiate-Athlete Students & Alumni First-Generation Students & Alumni International Students & Alumni LGBTQ+ Students & Alumni Students & Alumni with Disabilities Veteran Students & Alumni Women-Identifying Students & Alumni Get Involved Students Career Circles for Students Architecture Arts & Humanities Business Communication, Music & Entertainment Education & Sports Environment, Marine & Atmospheric Science Healthcare & Life Sciences Psychology Social Sciences & Pre-Law STEM Identity-Based Resources BIPOC Students & Alumni Collegiate-Athlete Students & Alumni First-Generation Students & Alumni International Students & Alumni LGBTQ+ Students & Alumni Students & Alumni with Disabilities Veteran Students & Alumni Women-Identifying Students & Alumni Graduate Students Resources Career Tools News & Advice Resume Scanner Identity-Based Resources BIPOC Students & Alumni Collegiate-Athlete Students & Alumni First-Generation Students & Alumni International Students & Alumni LGBTQ+ Students & Alumni Students & Alumni with Disabilities Veteran Students & Alumni Women-Identifying Students & Alumni Mentoring + Networking Contact Us Contact Information Social: What’s Happening WELCOME TO TOPPEL'S CUSTOM CAREER CONTENT RESUME PREP NETWORKING SKILL BUILDING Latest Updates What is Blockchain and Why are Businesses Choosing It? Share This: Share What is Blockchain and Why are Businesses Choosing It? on TwitterShare What is Blockchain and Why are Businesses Choosing It? on LinkedinShare What is Blockchain and Why are Businesses Choosing It? on Facebook Copy Link Published on May 3, 2022 Now that blockchain technology has been making the news, many suppliers want to introduce it into their supply chains. But no one is quite sure how or where to start. Blockchain is expanding in the world. It is the design … By Arundhuti Mahato Author info Arundhuti Mahato Send Email linkedintwitterwebsite Read more » UMiami Students Working for U! Share This: Share UMiami Students Working for U! on TwitterShare UMiami Students Working for U! on LinkedinShare UMiami Students Working for U! on Facebook Copy Link Published on May 3, 2022 We Find U Buy is a non-profit group started by four University of Miami students. This group aims to target female students at the U who are looking for professional wear without spending a fortune. The We Find U Buy … By Alix Earle Author info Alix Earle UMiami Students Working for U! Send Email website Read more » What does a sports writer do? Share This: Share What does a sports writer do? on TwitterShare What does a sports writer do? on LinkedinShare What does a sports writer do? on Facebook Copy Link Published on April 19, 2022 Retrieved from: “What does a sports writer do“ What is a Sports Writer? A sportswriter is someone who delivers engaging and informative news on sports to readers of blogs, websites, newspapers, or magazines. They may work directly for … By Mihret Russo Author info Mihret Russo Send Email Read more » 7 important tech skills that can shape your future Share This: Share 7 important tech skills that can shape your future on TwitterShare 7 important tech skills that can shape your future on LinkedinShare 7 important tech skills that can shape your future on Facebook Copy Link Published on April 15, 2022 7 important tech skills that can shape your future At present, the people in the world are running in a race to prove that they can do whatever they want to do to make their future colorful. Technology is increasing day by day and also the business field is … By Sachin Kuma Author info Sachin Kuma 7 important tech skills that can shape your future Send Email linkedinwebsite Read more » View All Blogs Sidebar Stay Informed Students & Alumni: Sign up to receive alerts for opportunities, events, advice, and more! Sign Up Upcoming Events April 01 The 8-Step Job Search Toolkit Thu, Apr 1 - Sat, Aug 20 at 12pm - 5pm February 11 National Student Data Corps (NSDC) - Inaugural Data Science Symposium Fri, Feb 11 - Wed, Jun 15 at 12am - 11:55pm May 03 Virtual Info Session: U360 Business Sustainability Internship (MULTIPLE DATES) Tue, May 3 - Mon, Jun 27 at 10:30am - 12pm 23 KPMG Career Catalyst Program - Audit Mon, May 23 - Fri, Sep 30 at 12am - 11:55pm June 01 2022 FUTURE NOW Media & Entertainment Conference Wed, Jun 1 - Fri, Jun 3 at 12pm - 5pm View More Featured Jobs & Employers Academy Art MuseumView All Jobs Label LLCView All Jobs Pathfinder RanchView All Jobs GiveWellView All Jobs See All Employers Videos Go to the video Spring Into Service: Starting Your Journey to Impact – Deeper Dive Go to the video Spring Into Service: Starting Your Journey to Impact – Panel Discussion Go to the video Summer Skill-Up | Alumni Webinar Series | Career Positivity during Challenging Times Go to the video Summer Skill-Up | Alumni Webinar Series | Gaining Experience: Skills and Connections Go to the video Summer Skill-Up | Alumni Webinar Series | The Recruiting Landscape in the Era of COVID-19 Go to the video Graduating in an Uncertain World: Pathways through the Pandemic View All Videos Featured Classes U Miami Alumni Career Design Fellowship – Starts April 2, 2022 What comes next for your career? Let’s find out! Join the U Miami Alumni Career Design Fellowship; a flexible 30-day… Learn More Coding Boot Camp Certificate University of Miami (UM) Coding Boot Camp is a 24-week, part-time web development course offered on our Coral Gables campus.… Learn More Allergy Diagnostics & Allergen Immunotherapy Training Allergic Disease Management in Primary Care: Closing the educational gap between the current knowledge and understanding of a non-board-certified allergist… Learn More Certificate in Happiness Studies (CiHS) The Certificate in Happiness Studies (CiHS) program is the first and only of its kind. While there are a number… Learn More Masters Certificate in Financial Planning Program The Masters Certificate in Financial Planning is a live, instructor-led, Internet delivered financial planning education program, designed to meet the… Learn More Executive Certified Financial Planner (CFP®) Certificate Program The demand for financial planners with CFP® certification is continually growing. This historically uniform profession is poised for minority planners… Learn More Instructional Design & Technology Program The program is designed for highly motivated individuals who are working in the instructional technology field in a wide variety… Learn More Cyber2 Certificate This specialized double program combines both the Cyber Security Professional and Ethical Hacking programs for a total of 680 academic hours.… Learn More Cyber Security Professional Course This program was designed to prepare students to get a job in cyber security when they graduate. Each part of… Learn More Cyber Security Ethical Hacking Program During the Cyber Security – Ethical Hacking course, students will dive in head first with in-depth examinations of Cyber Security,… Learn More Organizational Consulting Certificate Program This program focuses on leadership skills, motivational skills, and the ability to think innovatively and decisively, all of which play… Learn More BASIC COMPUTERMs. Joan Nurse BASIC COMPUTER With Ms. Joan Nurse Mondays, 10:00 – 11:45 a.m. $120 Course Description: Learning how to operate a computer… Learn More Certified Professional Coach Certificate Program The University of Miami Certified Professional Coach Certificate program is an in-depth, experientially-based training course for those pursuing a career… Learn More Advanced Coach Training Certificate Program The University of Miami Advanced Coach Training Program is a journey toward mastery and is designed for the coach who… Learn More Problem Solving and Decision-Making Strategies Certificate The University of Miami Problem Solving and Decision-Making Strategies Certificate Program teaches both the theoretical and practical mastery needed to… Learn More Group Facilitation Certificate The University of Miami Group Facilitation Certificate Program teaches skills and techniques designed to establish structure in groups, guide them… Learn More Ethical Business Decision-Making Certificate Program The University of Miami Ethical Business Decision Making Certificate Program teaches students to identify ethical issues and decision-making challenges and… Learn More Business Communication Certificate Program Build and strengthen your speaking, writing, and interpersonal communication skills with our Certificate in Business Communication Skills. This program builds your… Learn More Alternative Methods of Problem Solving Certificate The University of Miami Alternative Methods of Problem Solving Certificate Program teaches cutting-edge techniques for handling various types of conflict… Learn More SHRM Certification (SHRM-CP™/ SHRM- SCP™) Commit to Your Career SHRM’s global HR credentials, SHRM-CP and SHRM-SCP, offer growth, advancement and recognition. These credentials are based… Learn More View All Classes Stay Informed Students & Alumni: Sign up to receive alerts for opportunities, events, advice, and more! Sign Up University of Miami Toppel Career Center Custom Career Content TwitterFacebookLinkedInInstagramYouTube Toppel Career Center 5225 Ponce De Leon Blvd. Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284-5451 hireacane@miami.edu ALUMNI: hireacane@miami.edu STUDENTS: toppel@miami.edu Privacy Policy | Terms of Service Copyright © 2022 University of Miami Toppel Career Center Powered by uConnect Posting....