Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Header Utility Menu Contact Us Get Involved Make a Gift Search Search Forward Blue Scholarships School/College Funds Mission, Academics and Programs Campus Improvements Health Sciences Staff Directory Alumni Community Alumni Relations FAQ Your School or College Stay Connected Find Groups and Associations Alumni Benefits and Resources National Black Alumni Advisory Board Women of Creighton Mission and Ministry History and Tradition Become a Resource for Students Alumni Outcomes Awards and Honors News and Events Latest News Events Calendar Creighton Days Giving Day Evening of Honors Athletic Events AlumWire Giving Opportunities Find your giving opportunity Volunteer The Creighton Society Ways to Give Parent Fund Corporations and Foundations Diversity and Inclusion Scholarships Health Sciences Phoenix Athletics How Funding Works Goodbye Gallagher Get Involved Keep the Creighton tradition going strong. Creighton University Alumni and Friends Giving Opportunities Our Bluejay community Wherever you are, Creighton offers alumni and friends many ways to stay connected with the Bluejay community. Join Regional and Affinity Groups Make a gift Go to a a Creighton event! Your alma mater Stay connected with your school or college. Alumni Boards Consider joining the National Alumni Board or Recent Alumni Board. Host an event Interested in hosting an event in your area for alumni or Creighton parents? Contact alumni@creighton.edu or parents@creighton.edu. Volunteer for Creighton Days Each spring, our reunion ambassadors help us host a fun and successful Creighton Days (formerly Reunion Weekend). Ambassadors offer guidance and organization for the event and write letters to classmates to drive attendance and class gift support. To learn more about becoming a volunteer for your class reunion, contact alumni@creighton.edu. Watch Video Forward Blue Forward Blue is the largest and most comprehensive fundraising campaign in Creighton’s history. The campaign is a massive, concentrated effort over an extended period of time to celebrate Creighton’s mission, while raising funds to ensure that mission endures. Read more about Forward Blue Support scholarships Support your school or college Ways to help Recruit students Through the Office of Admissions, you can help future Bluejays find their place in the world, sharing your experience with prospective students and parents. Attend receptions for admitted and prospective students Make congratulatory phone calls to students who have been admitted to Creighton Represent Creighton at college fairs in your area Recruit students virtually Interested? Contact admissions@creighton.edu Become a mentor Engage with Creighton students through the Student Success Center and help them find their best path forward. Ways to help: Let a student shadow you for a day Recruit Creighton students for internships and full-time positions Attend the Creighton Career Fair as a representative of your organization Develop an internship program for Creighton students Visit the Student Success website or email successcenter@creighton.edu for more info. Take the Next Step Make a gift Update your info Forward Blue FAQ Creighton University HR Compliance Privacy Non-Discrimination 2500 California Plaza Omaha, NE 68178 • 402.280.2700 © 2021 Creighton University