Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Service to Community Giving Back: Yale Day of Service and Yale Alumni Service Corps Service is an integral part of the Yale experience, the desire to take what you learned on campus and give back for the greater good. The YAA can help you effect that change, whether it's by celebrating a day of service or a year of service, fostering an annual service project, or traveling (when it's safe to do so) to make a difference in communities around the world. I wish to be useful, and every kind of service necessary to the public good becomes honorable by being necessary. Nathan Hale, Yale Class of 1773 Yale Day of Service Alumni, family, and friends in the thousands come together each spring to celebrate Yale's tradition of service by contributing to their communities. Volunteers are needed at all levels: participating in sites, coordinating with local organizations to plan each project, and leading a regional area. We also encourage virtual sites to maximize options for participation. Visit the Yale Day of Service page for more. Information Links Yale Alumni Service Corps The Yale Alumni Service Corps promotes mutual cross-cultural awareness and sustainable development in underserved areas. Alumni, family, and friends work together with people in communities throughout the world – via the arts, education, sports, health, and economic development – to inspire hope and produce meaningful change in the lives of the people we serve. Visit the YASC website to learn more. Watch: Yale Alumni Service Programs Despite restrictions on the ability to gather, Yalies all over the world have come together to impact the places where they live and work and connect with their communities in meaningful ways. Check out these interactions by watching our service webinars and video presentations at your convenience. Watch now! Additional Links Volunteer for Yale Alumni who volunteer their time and talent are what drive the YAA. Contribute by leading alumni organizations, providing wisdom to students and recent graduates, or organizing service projects near home or far away. Learn More about Volunteer for Yale Connect Online Yalies are social people, and in an ever-connected world, social media is a great way to keep up with all the latest news about Yale, fellow alumni, programs of interest, events, and more. Follow Us You May Also Be Interested In News Raquel Sequeira ’21, seven graduating seniors win fellowships for study in the U.K. Alumni Voices My Yale Day of Service story: Giving back and building hope at Nido de Esperanza Service Yale Day of Service: CT, New Haven - Red Cross Sound the Alarm May 21, 2022 470 James Street New Haven, CT 06513 United States Arts & Music Family Service Virtual Yale Day of Service: Virtual - 54 Celebrates Hear Your Song: Broadway Stars Sing Songs by Kids! (LIVESTREAM and In-Person) May 12, 2022 United States Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page