Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis right arrow down arrow UC Alumni Day at the Indiana Pacers Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore right arrow down arrow Washington D.C.: UC vs. SMU Game Watch International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month UC Alumni Association » Resources & Perks » Scholarships Set Navigation title in component Career Discounts & Perks College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript UC Alumni Association Scholarships Scholarships Through the generous support of UC’s alumni community, the UC Alumni Association awards more than $100,000 each year to approximately 50 exceptional UC students. Current and incoming students are considered for four distinct scholarship opportunities, two of which benefit direct descendants of UC alumni. The complete admission application (to include transcript and test scores) received by December 1 will serve as the Alumni Association scholarship application for the Christos P. Demakes Legacy Scholarship and the Regional Alumni Network Scholarship for incoming freshmen. Eligible students will be identified and invited to submit next steps for alumni award consideration. MAKE YOUR GIFT TODAY Darlene H. Carter UCAA Scholarship Fund right arrow down arrow UCAA’s flagship scholarship fund was named for Darlene Carter upon her 2020 retirement to honor her decades of dedicated service on the UC Alumni Association staff and her devotion and assistance to countless students through the years. Combining funds derived from private gifts as well as UCAA’s Ohio C-Paw license plate program, the Darlene H. Carter UCAA Scholarship Fund supports the renewal of Christos P. Demakes Legacy Scholarships after recipients’ freshman years and select Regional Alumni Network Scholarships. Christos P. Demakes Legacy Scholarship right arrow down arrow Named in honor of past UCAA Executive Director Christos Demakes, this scholarship is given to select first-year students and is renewable for up to four years while students are studying at UC. Eligibility requirements include: Incoming UC freshman Parent or grandparent attended UC Parent or grandparent is a current Loyal Bearcat or William Howard Taft Society donor as of Feb. 15 Complete admission application (including transcript and test scores) by Dec. 1 To apply: Your application to the University of Cincinnati auto-enrolls students identified as meeting the above requirements If you have applied to UC but your parent is not a current Loyal Bearcat or William Howard Taft Society member, they can make their gift by Feb. 15 to ensure eligibility No additional application/essay is needed. The application essay will be used to determine final candidates Scholarship recipients will be notified of award in May. If you have any questions please contact Cynthia Miller. Regional Alumni Network Scholarship right arrow down arrow Awarded on behalf of UCAA’s 30-plus regional alumni networks to support local future Bearcats. Eligibility requirements include: Incoming UC freshman Permanent residence in a participating UC Alumni Association regional alumni network Complete admission application (including transcript and test scores) by Dec. 1 to be considered Kacher-Bloom Memorial Scholarship right arrow down arrow In recognition and remembrance of former UC students Margaret "Meg" Kacher and Sheri An Bloom. In 1985, UC suffered the loss of both of these promising young women to untimely deaths. Eligibility requirements include: Current full-time junior at UC Excellence in academics Devotion to student activities and community service Strong sense of loyalty and commitment to the University of Cincinnati This year’s application deadline is May 8, 2022. Shani Scholarship right arrow down arrow The African American Alumni Affiliate (4A) proudly awards scholarships to underrepresented students intent on pursuing an international experience to enrich their college experience. We believe adventure is the best way to learn. By increasing exposure to international experiences we contribute directly to creating well-rounded students with unlimited opportunities post-graduation. The scholarship can be used for study abroad or an international coop. The awards have ranged between $500-1,000 based on fund availability. Eligibility requirements include: Involved in a cultural organization Possess, at least, a 2.75 GPA Have a minimum of 15 credit hours; graduate students are also eligible Be able to show proof of 10 or more community service hours Registered for a trip during the Spring, Summer or Fall semesters of 2022 To apply, please visit the Shani Scholarship application page. Applications are due Jan. 16, 2022. Taiwan Scholarship right arrow down arrow The University of Cincinnati Alumni Association has established the Taiwan Alumni Scholarship to support Taiwanese students studying at the University of Cincinnati. Students often receive financial aid to cover the cost of tuition, but still need money to purchase their meal plan and cover other living expenses. Learn more. University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top