Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month Pride Month UC Alumni Association » Get Involved » College Networks » CEAS Alumni Set Navigation title in component Update Your Info College Networks CEAS Alumni A&S Alumni Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups African American Alumni Affiliate 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids College of Engineering and Applied Science Alumni Welcome, CEAS Alumni You are part of a global community of more than 40,000 College of Engineering and Applied Science alumni and 300,000 UC alumni - and whether you live down the street or across the globe, we want to help you stay connected to the college and each other. The opportunities to make CEAS and UC a part of your life are vast - from helping recruit new Bearcats to resumé reviews, coming back for Homecoming or Alumni Weekend, or supporting scholarships. There truly is something for everyone. We hope you will keep your contact information updated so we can continue to share the latest college and department news, and also tell us what great things you’ve done with your degree by sharing your story. Get Involved As alumni, there are many opportunities for you to stay connect with the College of Engineering and Applied Science students, faculty and staff. Read on to find the program and events that match your interests! The College of Engineering and Applied Science offers several college-wide volunteer opportunities for alumni. Learn more about CEAS volunteer opportunities. Update your info to ensure you're the first to hear about CEAS events. Find your class composite online! CEAS Alumni Events VIEW EVENTS CEAS News Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. UC alumna creates scholarship benefiting women in engineering... May 23, 2022 Only 15% of U.S. engineers are women, according to the latest data from the United States Census Bureau. It’s a gap the University of Cincinnati College of Engineering and Applied Science hopes to help close, and a UC alumna has established a scholarship that will aid efforts. UC makes connections to key players in the theme park industry May 4, 2022 For Andrew Holcroft Disney World had always been a place for family memories and entertainment as a youth. But he entered high school he seriously began to think about fields of study, careers and if he could do more than just visit theme parks. Maybe he could be part of a team creating or enhancing a theme park. As a a fourth-year industrial design student at the University of Cincinnati he's exploring that option. Debug Query for this Virtual Town Hall CEAS Dean John Weidner gives an update on the state of the college and how CEAS has been tackling the challenges of COVID-19. Also hear from current CEAS student and UC Student Body President, Logan Lindsay, CompE ’21, about his spring co-op experience and the work being done to support our students. CEAS Alumni Board The College of Engineering and Applied Science Alumni board is a volunteer group that works with the Associate Director of Alumni Relations and Dean of the College in matters concerning CEAS alumni, and assists in the development and promotion of programs and activities to foster an ongoing affiliation between alumni and the college. If you are interested in getting involved with the CEAS Alumni Board, contact Ann Terry. Executive Committee right arrow down arrow President: Sean McCabe, CompE ’09 Vice President: Brad Sheppard, EE ’09, MBA ’11 Engagement Chair: Tom Vinciguerra, ChemE ’76 Communications Chair: Ashlee Youngpeters, AERO ’13 Members right arrow down arrow Dave Bareswilt, CE ’04 Alan Bensman, ME ’04 Andrew Conley, ME ’17 Steve Crowley, ME ’83, MSME ’84 Ralph Dusing, ASCE ’74, CM ’78 Doug Grosse, MSCE ’83 Alison Hayfer, BME '16 Cara Henegar, CE ’00 Dallas Horn, EE ’67, MBA ’73 Tim Janek, ME ’11 Eric Penrod, ME ’08 Alexzandra Ramachandran, BME ’10 Nick Rosian, CE ’90 Sameeul Samee, MSME ’12, MMath ’16 Sid Thatham, MENG ’17, MBA ’17 Ann Terry Senior Director of Alumni & Donor Experience, College Relations, College of Engineering and Applied Science 513-556-4469 terrya2@foundation.uc.edu University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top