Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Giving Breadcrumb Home All News All News Sub Navigation In This Section News & Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories 84 Results based on your selections. Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center May 25, 2022 Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 Read Article Open details for Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Alumni & Friends 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day April 14, 2022 Want to help make this Brunonians Pay It Forward Day our biggest yet? Here’s how you can get involved and spread the word about this giving day. Read Article Open details for 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day Alumni & Friends Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 April 3, 2022 This year’s giving day saw the Brown community help raise more than $2.6 million for the Brown Annual Fund. Read Article Open details for Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 Alumni & Friends Upping our game March 25, 2022 BrownTogether has already helped elevate Brown’s Division of Athletics and Recreation. M. Grace Calhoun ’92, the division’s new vice president, is determined to keep the momentum going. Read Article Open details for Upping our game Alumni & Friends What’s next for BrownTogether? March 25, 2022 We’re now heading toward $4 billion. See where the next phase of BrownTogether will take us. Read Article Open details for What’s next for BrownTogether? Alumni & Friends One campus, a world of possibilities March 25, 2022 With further investments in financial aid, BrownTogether aims to make need-blind admission for international students a reality. Read Article Open details for One campus, a world of possibilities Alumni & Friends Anticipation, joy, relief. Match Day is in the books! March 21, 2022 Members of Brown’s MD Class of 2022 celebrated the start of the next phase of their medical careers as they discovered where they have been matched for residencies. Read Article Open details for Anticipation, joy, relief. Match Day is in the books! Alumni & Friends $4B: BrownTogether campaign extended March 1, 2022 With its new $4 billion goal, the campaign will continue through 2024—raising funds for research and teaching in medicine, public health, engineering and the arts, as well as student financial aid, career services and Brown Athletics. Read Article Open details for $4B: BrownTogether campaign extended News from Brown $10 million gift from Reed Hastings, Patty Quillin to bolster 58-year-old Brown-Tougaloo Partnership February 21, 2022 The generous gift from Netflix CEO Reed Hastings and producer Patty Quillin will provide much-needed financial support to students from Tougaloo College, an HBCU in Mississippi, including many who come to Brown. Read Article Open details for $10 million gift from Reed Hastings, Patty Quillin to bolster 58-year-old Brown-Tougaloo Partnership Alumni & Friends Caring for women both near and far February 14, 2022 Dr. Methodius Tuuli has been serving as the chair of obstetrics and gynecology at The Warren Alpert Medical School for about a year. He is definitely in the right place at the right time. Read Article Open details for Caring for women both near and far Alumni & Friends 10 Brunonians who embody BrownTogether December 10, 2021 From researchers to recent grads, discover the people who illustrate the heart of Brown’s most ambitious campaign. Read Article Open details for 10 Brunonians who embody BrownTogether Alumni & Friends This is what $3 billion looks like December 9, 2021 How did BrownTogether reach $3 billion? What does it mean for Brown? We’ll let the numbers tell the story. Read Article Open details for This is what $3 billion looks like Alumni & Friends $25 million gift to Brown to accelerate discovery at renamed Legorreta Cancer Center December 9, 2021 Generous support from the Legorreta family will propel plans for a world-class, nationally designated cancer center at Brown that will turn basic science into treatments for patients in Rhode Island and beyond. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift to Brown to accelerate discovery at renamed Legorreta Cancer Center Alumni & Friends Improving mental health through computational neuroscience November 8, 2021 The Carney Institute’s new BRAINSTORM program is bridging the gap between basic brain science research and clinical applications for mental well-being. Read Article Open details for Improving mental health through computational neuroscience Alumni & Friends Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign November 2, 2021 Having reached its target more than a year ahead of schedule, the University will continue raising funds for student scholarships and faculty research, while establishing new goals in the months to come. Read Article Open details for Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign Alumni & Friends Breaking new ground in the battle against Alzheimer's October 18, 2021 Early detection. Personalized treatments. Collaborative care. The Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research is positioning Brown to improve patient outcomes now and in the future. Read Article Open details for Breaking new ground in the battle against Alzheimer&#039;s Alumni & Friends Giving Tuesday 2021 | November 30 October 11, 2021 Brunonians from across the globe came together to support the people, programs, and promise of Brown. Read Article Open details for Giving Tuesday 2021 | November 30 Alumni & Friends What it means to wear the white coat September 22, 2021 Brown welcomes its newest class of medical students with its annual white coat ceremony. Read Article Open details for What it means to wear the white coat Alumni & Friends Foundation and corporate grants accelerate research at Brown September 22, 2021 The past year was particularly successful for faculty working alongside Brown Advancement’s Corporate and Foundation Relations team, with more than $26 million in grants awarded to support promising projects in a range of disciplines. Read Article Open details for Foundation and corporate grants accelerate research at Brown Alumni & Friends Celebrating five years of Brown’s hub for entrepreneurship September 22, 2021 Launched in 2016, the Nelson Center is championing “the Brown way” of entrepreneurship: combining learning, research, and practice to support students in realizing their next big idea. Read Article Open details for Celebrating five years of Brown’s hub for entrepreneurship Alumni & Friends A parent’s love, a lasting legacy September 22, 2021 Through her daughter, Cristina García P’14 saw firsthand the power of a Brown education. Through her planned gift, she hopes to give other Latinx families the same experience. Read Article Open details for A parent’s love, a lasting legacy Alumni & Friends The best way to fight Alzheimer’s? Together. June 16, 2021 By convening innovative researchers across academia, Brown’s new Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research hopes to accelerate the pace of development for treatments and cures of this devastating disease. Read Article Open details for The best way to fight Alzheimer’s? Together. Alumni & Friends For one young alum, the impact of financial aid continues to reverberate June 16, 2021 Financial aid has the power to open the door to more opportunities. For Gabriel Reyes ’18, it opened up a whole new universe of opportunities. Read Article Open details for For one young alum, the impact of financial aid continues to reverberate Alumni & Friends Uncovering alternatives to animal testing June 16, 2021 Brown researchers are pursuing a promising new method that could transform toxicology testing, making it faster and more effective without the use of animals. Read Article Open details for Uncovering alternatives to animal testing Alumni & Friends Football gets a modern home field advantage June 16, 2021 The Richard Gouse Field at Brown Stadium makes the jump to a new playing surface, giving football a “play fast” competitive home base. Read Article Open details for Football gets a modern home field advantage News from Brown $5 million gift to fuel new ideas, welcome new leadership at Brown’s Pembroke Center June 16, 2021 The gift from Class of 1976 Brown alumna Shauna Stark, the largest in the Pembroke Center’s history, will establish an endowed directorship and support bold feminist research by scholars from multiple fields of study. Read Article Open details for $5 million gift to fuel new ideas, welcome new leadership at Brown’s Pembroke Center Alumni & Friends MD/PhDs: Training for the future of medicine June 9, 2021 By blurring the line between patient care and clinical research, this dual degree might be our best chance to tackle some of the most pressing health issues of our time. Read Article Open details for MD/PhDs: Training for the future of medicine Alumni & Friends Big Problems, Big Solutions May 19, 2021 The Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship celebrates five years of supporting the development of innovative student ideas, teaching entrepreneurship as a set of skills, and helping the Brown community take advantage of a rich variety of entrepreneurial resources. Read Article Open details for Big Problems, Big Solutions Alumni & Friends Escalating the fight against Alzheimer’s disease May 10, 2021 Generous gifts totalling $30 million are supporting the establishment of the Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research at Brown, with a focus on early detection and viable treatments. Read Article Open details for Escalating the fight against Alzheimer’s disease Alumni & Friends Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2021 March 26, 2021 On May 13, the Brown community came together to support all that Brown makes possible. Read Article Open details for Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2021 Alumni & Friends Saving a "lost" summer: Reinventing experiential learning at Brown March 19, 2021 The pandemic robbed many students of their summer internships and research opportunities. With the SPRINT program, the University created hundreds of new opportunities — and a new way to offer learning beyond the classroom. Read Article Open details for Saving a &quot;lost&quot; summer: Reinventing experiential learning at Brown Alumni & Friends Removing financial barriers — one promise at a time March 19, 2021 The Brown Promise has made the dream of a Brown education possible for many exceptional students. Through an ongoing giving challenge, we're seeking to make it a permanent part of Brown's financial aid programs. Read Article Open details for Removing financial barriers — one promise at a time Alumni & Friends Hope for rare diseases March 16, 2021 Sandi Nusinoff Lehrman ’69 MD’76 and Stephen A. Lehrman ’73 have seen two grandchildren battle a rare neurological disease. Through their philanthropy, they're supporting Brown's Center for Translational Neuroscience in its crusade to discover new treatments for rare brain diseases. Read Article Open details for Hope for rare diseases Alumni & Friends Bridging the STEM gender gap March 16, 2021 With the BrownTogether campaign, the University is creating more opportunity and a stronger sense of community for women faculty in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Read Article Open details for Bridging the STEM gender gap Alumni & Friends Dr. Ashish Jha on vaccines, climate change, and the future of public health March 16, 2021 Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, Dr. Jha has been a national advocate for effective testing and prevention strategies. Now as the new dean of the rapidly growing School of Public Health, he's bringing together minds from every corner of Brown to tackle the public health crises of today and tomorrow. Read Article Open details for Dr. Ashish Jha on vaccines, climate change, and the future of public health Alumni & Friends Brown medical students celebrate Match Day 2021 March 8, 2021 On March 19, The Warren Alpert Medical School's MD Class of 2021 joined medical students from around the country for Match Day. Read Article Open details for Brown medical students celebrate Match Day 2021 News from Brown Brown to disburse $5.4 million in pandemic relief funding to eligible students March 1, 2021 Provost Richard M. Locke outlined Brown’s distribution model for $4.8 million in federal COVID-19 economic relief funding and an additional $550,000 in University funding to ensure students are treated equitably. Read Article Open details for Brown to disburse $5.4 million in pandemic relief funding to eligible students News from Brown $20 million in new giving marks growing support for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives at Brown February 26, 2021 With continued momentum in support of Brown’s diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, new BrownTogether gifts and grants are catalyzing research on race and inequity, and supporting students from underrepresented groups. Read Article Open details for $20 million in new giving marks growing support for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives at Brown Alumni & Friends The battle against cancer February 15, 2021 Cancer doesn’t take a break, not even for a worldwide pandemic. The newly established Cancer Center at Brown University, directed by Dr. Wafik El-Deiry, is making sure advances in research and improvements to patient care continue uninterrupted. Read Article Open details for The battle against cancer Alumni & Friends Fostering diverse approaches to understanding brain function February 2, 2021 Transformational new support for The Carney Institute for Brain Science is accelerating innovation and translational research into vital aspects of the human brain. Read Article Open details for Fostering diverse approaches to understanding brain function News from Brown $4.9 million grant project to interrogate legacy of colonialism, subjugation in New England February 2, 2021 Brown University, Williams College and the Mystic Seaport Museum scholars will use maritime history as a basis for studying the relationship between European colonization, dispossession of Native American land and racial slavery. Read Article Open details for $4.9 million grant project to interrogate legacy of colonialism, subjugation in New England Alumni & Friends New research network spotlights obstruction to climate change action December 8, 2020 Backed with alumni support, the newly formed Climate Social Science Network is working to understand why climate change has become such a divisive issue—and how to counter the misinformation and barriers to progress surrounding it. Read Article Open details for New research network spotlights obstruction to climate change action Alumni & Friends Creating a home for student veterans December 8, 2020 Brown has taken several steps toward building a more welcoming and supportive environment for student veterans. But none has been more important than boosting the amount of financial aid available to those who have served their country with honor. Read Article Open details for Creating a home for student veterans Alumni & Friends Across the curriculum, diversity courses are teaching essentials skills December 8, 2020 Through its diversity and inclusion action plan, Brown is bringing topics on race, gender, and inequality into classrooms across a variety of departments. Read Article Open details for Across the curriculum, diversity courses are teaching essentials skills Alumni & Friends A look back: 2020 highlights December 7, 2020 From providing emergency support to students during a global pandemic to game-changing research in malaria, we're looking back at some important accomplishments supported by Brown donors in a year that was anything but ordinary. Read Article Open details for A look back: 2020 highlights Alumni & Friends How Brown is embracing its veteran community November 17, 2020 With University initiatives and generous community support, more student veterans are making their academic home on College Hill. Read Article Open details for How Brown is embracing its veteran community News from Brown $20 million gift to enable full scholarships for U.S. military veterans at Brown November 11, 2020 A generous gift from U.S. Army veteran and Brown parent Joseph P. Healey will provide crucial support for Brown’s plan to double the number of student veterans enrolled as undergraduates by 2024. Read Article Open details for $20 million gift to enable full scholarships for U.S. military veterans at Brown Alumni & Friends Brown's Giving Tuesday 2020 | December 1 November 2, 2020 With more than $4 million raised by 4,000+ supporters, the Brown community helped make Giving Tuesday 2020 one of our biggest giving days ever. Read Article Open details for Brown&#039;s Giving Tuesday 2020 | December 1 Alumni & Friends Cogut students and faculty on why we need the humanities October 28, 2020 From climate change to racial inequity, the students, faculty, and researchers of the Cogut Institute are tackling the biggest issues of our time—and proving why the humanities are more important than ever. Read Article Open details for Cogut students and faculty on why we need the humanities Alumni & Friends Brown welcomes incoming medical students with White Coat Ceremony October 27, 2020 The Warren Alpert Medical School celebrated the MD Class of 2024 with a virtual event as first-year medical students donned their white coats. Read Article Open details for Brown welcomes incoming medical students with White Coat Ceremony Previous 1 2 Next Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Giving Open details for Giving Bookmark this Page