Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Yale Class of 2022 Information Links Class of 2022 Welcome to the Yale Alumni Community! During these challenging times, we need each other more than ever, and the Yale Alumni Association is here for you. This page features a series of resources curated specifically for you. We’ll keep you in the loop as new and different and information and opportunities become available. Keep reading for more! Information Links Alumni Directory Stay Connected! Join the Yale alumni online community to stay connected. Keep your contact information up to date to receive the latest news, updates, and more delivered straight to your inbox. Alumni Directory Information Links Class of 2022 Always a Yalie One of the great things about Yale is that, while you may embark on future careers, further studies, and all the other journeys of a long, interesting life, Yale never leaves you. You are – and always will be – a Yalie. And as such, you have a place with the Yale Alumni Association. What We Do Get Social @YaleAlumni Instagram Yale Alumni Association Facebook @YaleAlumni Twitter Your Yale Alumni Association Benefits The benefits of your Yale affiliation last a lifetime. All Yale alumni, post-doctoral fellows, and international affiliates automatically gain access to alumni events, a global network of regional clubs and interest groups, lifelong learning opportunities, and more. The best part is you're already a member! Find out more about the benefits available to YAA members on our Alumni Benefits page. Information Links Connect Stay in Touch with Alumni Mentors If you want one-on-one coaching from those who have embarked on the career you’re considering — or those who have forged their own paths — you can find thousands of Yalies ready to connect with you on Cross Campus. Join Cross Campus Career Resources Careers, Life, and Yale Events Careers, Life, and Yale features programs that leverage the wisdom and talents of our alumni to support you – with advice and mentoring as well as events that provide insights into careers and life skills not often available to you on campus. Career Webinars Over the past five years, through the efforts of Peter Young ’74, Yalies have access to an online trove of archived career panels. Each panel provides insights from alumni and other experts – in a wide variety of positions and occupations – on what it’s REALLY like to work in those fields. Office of Career Strategy The Yale Office of Career Strategy offers career advising, professional school advising, employment and internship opportunities, and career development resources. Contact the YAA Have questions about the Yale Alumni Association? Learn more about all that we do at the YAA Help Center, or contact us via email. You May Also Be Interested In Alumni Voices Getting to Know You: Reunion Edition with John Yi ’12+1 Features Congratulations graduates, and welcome to the Yale alumni community! Features Friendship and gratitude mark the 321st Commencement News An alumni ceremony for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page