Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Cornell Forbes 30 Under 30 Cornell clubs Class connections Young Alumni Programs Diversity Alumni Programs and Cornell Mosaic Alumni career support Networking Connect with students Downloads Zoom Virtual Backgrounds On this page Spring favorites Cornelliana Custom wall decor Get real background banners Instructions With video meetings, you can connect from anywhere, with anyone. Whether you’re working from home or catching up with classmates, video calls make getting together easy and fun. Use the Zoom Virtual Background feature to keep your space private and transport yourself back to Cornell. Or, shop The Cornell Store for authentic wall decor. Spring favorites Magnolia trees on campus Download Tulip garden at the A.D. White House Download Spring slope Download Goldwin Smith Hall in spring Download Botanic Gardens Download Cornelliana Campaign backgrounds Get the latest To Do the Greatest Good campaign-themed mobile, watch, and Zoom backgrounds. Cornell seal Download Johnson Museum 5th Floor View Download Quiet space in A.D. White Library Download Cornell Tech Download Arts Quad Download McGraw Hall steps Download A.D White statue Download Klarman Hall at night Download More iconic Cornell backgrounds Custom wall decor Cornell alumnus/a Download Cornell Dad Download Cornell Mom Download Get real background banners Pennants and flags Instructions How-to enable Zoom virtual backgrounds 1. Sign in to the Zoom web portal. 2. Click My Meeting Settings, if you are an account administrator or Meeting Settings if you are an account member. 3. Navigate to the Virtual Background option on the Meeting tab and click the Status toggle to enable it. Select your virtual background in a meeting 1. In a Zoom meeting click the ^ arrow next to Start/Stop Video. 2. Click Choose a virtual background... 3. Tap the background you would like, then select Done. Plan your Reunion Reunion has something for everyone. Browse events and create a custom itinerary to make the most of your weekend on the Hill! Can't make it in person? Choose the Virtual Reunion package during registration and get access to featured livestream events. Make your schedule Ho Plaza looking south from atop McGraw Tower. Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022