Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Annual Giving Annual Giving applauds volunteer achievements by Beth Perrino March 21, 2022 Annual Giving honored volunteer leaders for their achievements in the 2020-21 campaign during a series of online celebrations in February. A video recognizes them for their efforts, dedication and spirit, and thanks Princeton alumni, parents and friends for their generous support of Annual Giving. “I am thankful to be part of [the Annual Giving] effort and I want to thank everyone for their contributions,” said class agent Kristen Verberkmoes ’96. “It was a tremendous experience.” 2020-21 Annual Giving Volunteer Achievement Awards The Harold H. Helm ’20 Distinguished Service Award, recognizing “exemplary and sustained service to Annual Giving,” was presented to Laurence Latimer *01. Learn more about Laurence and his service to Princeton. The Class of 1960 Award for the highest percentage of participation among the youngest 10 classes was presented to the Class of 2011 for reaching 50.3 percent participation. The class was led by class agents Katie Schwartz Thiry and Yifeng Wang. The Class of 1931 Ricardo A. Mestres Memorial Award recognizes participation in two additional groups of classes. For the highest participation among classes 11 to 50 years out, the award was presented to the Class of 1972 with 65.2 percent participation. The class was led by class agent Tom Hoster. The Class of 1963 earned the Mestres Award for achieving the highest participation in Annual Giving among classes 51 or more years post-graduation with 75.2 percent. The class was led by class agent Bob Eisenstadt. The Class of 1939 Award recognizes the non-major reunion class that raises the highest dollar amount. The award for 2020-21 went to the Class of 1992, which raised $1,089,982. The class was led by class agents Myles Derieg, Mary Kelleher, Ted Polubinski, and Matt Tarkenton. The Class of 1926 Trophy is awarded to the class that raises the largest sum of money each year. The award this year went to the Class of 1996, which raised $9,741,996, its highest total ever, in celebration of its 25th Reunion. The class was led by class agents Allison Sewell Bridges, Matthew Ferguson, Anna Kovner, and Kristen Verberkmoes; critical few chairs Pamela Adams Baker, Rob Hordon, Catarina Norman Schwab and Tony Yoseloff; and special gifts chairs Giorgio Caputo, Abigail Levy, Claire Nee Nelson and Steve Prince. You May Also Like… View All Princeton bonfire ‘reignites’ spirit of campus and community On Nov. 21, the Tiger spirit shined bright as students, alumni, parents and friends gathered together to enjoy the sights and sounds of the Princeton bonfire. McCosh 50: Thanks to Annual Giving, tradition meets today in iconic classroom renovation A new video celebrates the past, present and future of McCosh 50 and reflects the growth and evolution of the University since the hall first opened its doors in 1907. Princeton’s Annual Giving campaign raises $68.6 million Princeton University’s 2020-21 Annual Giving campaign raised $68,621,081 — the third highest total in Annual Giving history — with 49.6 percent of undergraduate alumni participating. The Class of 1996, with a participation rate of 62.1 percent, raised the largest amount — $9,741,996, its highest total ever, in celebration of its 25th Reunion. View All Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram