Go Alumni News Spotlight Stories Washington Square Magazine Distinguished Alumni Olympic Legacy Advice for the Class of 2020 Advice for the Class of 2021 Notification to former and current student-athletes Learn & Network Career Resources Recruit and Hire Spartans Alumni Networking Tool Chapters and Networks Santa Clara Valley Area Chapter Santa Cruz Area Chapter Black Alumni Network College of Education Alumni Board Justice Studies Task Force Latino Alumni Network Establish an Alumni Network Filipino Alumni Network Lifelong Learning The Accidental Geographer podcast hosted by Provost Vincent Del Casino Events Social Networks LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Instagram Other Resources Join & Give Join the Alumni Association Renew your membership Member Benefits PerksConnect Make a gift New Grads Volunteer Scholarship Giving Events Calendar Spartan Success Series Virtual Event Archive Alumni Travel Program Homecoming Submit Your Homecoming Event Pre-Game Rallies University Events Athletics Events Hammer Theatre Events Students Spartan Success Series Virtual Event Library Student Alumni Connection Connect with your future! Scholarship Information Alumni Association Dean's Scholarships Gerald M. Starek Family Alumni Association Scholarships Barnum Everett Scholarships Santa Cruz Area Chapter Scholarships Hoover Langdon Scholarships Katherine Peterson Alumni Association Scholarship San Jose Woman's Club Scholarships Deltha-Critique Scholarship Jeffrey Scott Johnson Memorial Scholarships Clyde Brewer Memorial Scholarship Agbert and Yogini Christie Memorial Scholarship Latino Alumni Network Scholarships Dr. Wanna and Jerry Pitts Scholarship Ted & Stephanie Coopman Scholarship Marcos & Denise Herrera ¡Adelanté Spartans! Scholarships About Us Our History Board of Directors Update your information Frequently Asked Questions Staff Directory Contact Us Public Disclosure Notification to former and current student-athletes Affinity Partner Opt Out Staff Login SAN JOSÉ STATE UNIVERSITY SJSU Menu SJSU Alumni Go Alumni News Spotlight Stories Washington Square Magazine Distinguished Alumni Olympic Legacy Advice for the Class of 2020 Advice for the Class of 2021 Notification to former and current student-athletes Learn & Network Career Resources Recruit and Hire Spartans Alumni Networking Tool Chapters and Networks Santa Clara Valley Area Chapter Santa Cruz Area Chapter Black Alumni Network College of Education Alumni Board Justice Studies Task Force Latino Alumni Network Establish an Alumni Network Filipino Alumni Network Lifelong Learning The Accidental Geographer podcast hosted by Provost Vincent Del Casino Events Social Networks LinkedIn Facebook Twitter Instagram Other Resources Join & Give Join the Alumni Association Renew your membership Member Benefits PerksConnect Make a gift New Grads Volunteer Scholarship Giving Events Calendar Spartan Success Series Virtual Event Archive Alumni Travel Program Homecoming Submit Your Homecoming Event Pre-Game Rallies University Events Athletics Events Hammer Theatre Events Students Spartan Success Series Virtual Event Library Student Alumni Connection Connect with your future! Scholarship Information Alumni Association Dean's Scholarships Gerald M. Starek Family Alumni Association Scholarships Barnum Everett Scholarships Santa Cruz Area Chapter Scholarships Hoover Langdon Scholarships Katherine Peterson Alumni Association Scholarship San Jose Woman's Club Scholarships Deltha-Critique Scholarship Jeffrey Scott Johnson Memorial Scholarships Clyde Brewer Memorial Scholarship Agbert and Yogini Christie Memorial Scholarship Latino Alumni Network Scholarships Dr. Wanna and Jerry Pitts Scholarship Ted & Stephanie Coopman Scholarship Marcos & Denise Herrera ¡Adelanté Spartans! Scholarships About Us Our History Board of Directors Update your information Frequently Asked Questions Staff Directory Contact Us Public Disclosure Notification to former and current student-athletes Affinity Partner Opt Out Staff Login Spartan for Life Join or upgrade to a Lifetime membership and receive an exclusive SJSU Alumni Yeti tumbler. New Grad and Senior rates are available. Join today Realworld portal New grads: prepare for life beyond campus with free tools, resources, and step-by-step guidance. Get started! Alumni Networking Check out the alumni networking tool, SJSU² Quick Connections. Network with 700+ alumni who are ready to help fellow Spartans. Connect! Exclusive savings Graduates of SJSU enjoy special savings on Auto & Home Insurance from Liberty Mutual Request a quote Alumni Spotlight Edwin R. Stafford, `87 Marketing Ed was most recently recognized with the Jon M. Huntsman School of Business’s 2022 “Lifetime Achievement Award.” Throughout his career, Ed’s research and community outreach has centered primarily on sustainability marketing issues, including renewable energy development, the diffusion of clean technology, and social influence’s impact on green behaviors. View More Stories Featured News Hundreds gather at CEFCU Stadium to celebrate the life of Lawrence Fan Emotions ranged from choking up to laughter as longtime San Jose State football media relations director Lawrence Fan was eulogized and remembered by family members and colleagues. SJSU’s Spartan Food Pantry Celebrates 3rd Anniversary Since the Spartan Food Pantry opened inside the Diaz Compean Student Union on Mar. 25, 2019, SJSU students have been able to access no-cost groceries all year. Along with celebrating its third anniversary, another milestone was reached — the 50,000th visit to the Spartan Food Pantry by a student. Spartan Service Celebration and Staff Awards Recognize Excellence The 54th annual Spartan Service Celebration and Staff Awards honored staff for their impactful tenures as SJSU. Continuing a recent tradition that shines a spotlight on SJSU’s exemplary and most enduring staff members, the Spartan Service Celebration and Staff Awards took place virtually on March 2. View More News Upcoming Events Jun 07 Slow Down to Get Ahead: Implementing Mindfulness Into Your Career Are you looking to feel confident, purposeful, and essential in your job or career? Are you ready to wake up and love Mondays because you get to do work you love? Alignment coach Kim Bilawchuk will lead you through simple techniques to calm your mind and body that will leave you feeling refreshed and focused. Jun 21 Begin Your Journey to Better Work-Life Balance *Life Member Event* It is possible to have a work-life balance in today’s complicated, competitive, and ever-changing world if you understand what is and isn’t. Met with John Walsh who is a senior executive, author, podcast host, adjunct professor, marathoner, husband, and father. John has spent more than 20+ years as a successful leader in world-class companies like Disney, Madison Square Garden, and Voss Water. Jun 21 Genacy Legacy Webinar Series: Passing Along Your Values with Your Wealth Successful multi-generational families identify and agree on their family’s unique purpose, and then create a culture of communication, trust and mentoring in their families that supports that family purpose. The result? A family that preserves their values along with their wealth for many generations. Jun 23 Move Beyond Boredom, Bottlenecks, and Burnout to Do More of Your Best Work Jenny Blake, bestselling author of Free Time: Lose the Busywork, Love Your Business, and Pivot: The Only Move That Matters Is Your Next One, will share practical strategies for freeing time now and into the future through the lens of heart-based operating principles. Jun 28 Beyond Collaboration Overload Collaborative work consumes 85% of employees' time and is drifting earlier into the morning, later into the night, and deeper into the weekend. Through in-depth stories and tools, bestselling author and leadership expert Rob Cross will show you how to break your work addiction and reclaim close to a day a week Jul 12 Do You Need More Time: Powerful Tactics to Make Time Your Superpower Organizational Psychologist Dr. Amantha Imber will let you in on some of the best secrets, tips, and hacks she learned from hosting the number one ranking business podcast How I Work. You will learn proven tactics from the world’s leading experts to help your time become your superpower. Jul 28 How to Manage Uncertainty and Create Meaning From the Inside Out Uncertainty is at an all-time high. Are you afraid you’re too old to make big changes? What do you need to move forward in a meaningful way in your career? Career and executive coach Tammy Gooler Loeb will identify the strategies to help you stay on track as obstacles and opportunities show up in your careers. View More Events San José State University Alumni Association Phone: 408-924-6515 Email: alumni@sjsu.edu Clark Hall 300 One Washington Square San Jose, CA 95192-0126 sjsuaa sjsualumni sjsu company page sjsualumni Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Health and Human Sciences Business Education Engineering Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers & Jobs King Library Parking & Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint MySJSU Canvas Athletics Give Facebook Twitter Linkedin YouTube San José State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192 408-924-1000