Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Career & Mentoring Volunteers As a volunteer, you can support the career development and advancement of students and alumni. Breadcrumb Home Volunteer Volunteer Opportunities Sub Navigation In This Section All Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Group Volunteers Brown Annual Fund Volunteers Brown Club Volunteers Brown Medical Community Volunteers Career & Mentoring Volunteers Women's Launch Pad Class Volunteers Parents Leadership Council Career & Mentoring Volunteers As a volunteer, you can support the career development and advancement of students and alumni. We are stronger together. And with our community of volunteer mentors, we're making our network even stronger. Our career and mentoring volunteers from a variety of fields and industries are helping support the professional development and advancement of current Brown students, recent graduates, and alumni. Interested in becoming a career volunteer or mentor? Learn how to get started by contacting our staff. EMAIL ALUMNI CAREERS Careers & Mentoring Volunteer Opportunities BrownConnect - Networking and Internships BrownConnect allows students to connect with alumni for internship and research opportunities, career advice, mentorship, and networking. Make sure your profile is up to date so that students and alumni can find you in a search, and learn more about the alumni-to-alumni networking features. Post an internship in BrownConnect to tap into the Brown student talent pool to give your projects a boost and get to know today's students. Women's Launch Pad From October through May, the Women's Launch Pad mentoring program helps Brown senior class women prepare for life beyond Brown by pairing them with Brown alumnae in a mentor/mentee relationship. Veterans Mentoring Program Through the Brown University Veterans Alumni Council (BUVAC) Mentoring Program, veteran alumni can help student veterans navigate their journey from military to student and civilian by mentoring on topics such as broadening their networks, learning about post-graduation military experience, and how to navigate their chosen careers. Center for Careers and Life after Brown (CareerLAB) Help current students by partnering with CareerLAB, Brown's on-campus career office. Participate in one event or with ongoing career-related activities; either way, you can make a big difference in students' career development. CareerCon is a CareerLAB program where students can explore options for life after Brown by hearing from and talking with alumni. Serve as a conference panelist or participate in a networking session for a unique opportunity to help students expand their networks and gain industry knowledge. If interested, email CareerLAB@brown.edu. Brown Alumni Association on LinkedIn Engage in career-related discussions and offer your sage advice by joining the 17,000+ members in the Brown Alumni Association's group on LinkedIn. The Brown affiliations of group members are verified by Brown staff. Related Stories Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art News from Brown Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future April 30, 2022 Members of the Warren Alpert Medical School community, including graduates from classes ranging from 1972 to 2022, gathered to commemorate the history and look to the future of Rhode Island’s first and only medical school. Read Article Open details for Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Career & Mentoring Volunteers Open details for Career & Mentoring Volunteers Bookmark this Page