Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Gift Planning Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team Staff members of the Office of Gift Planning are ready to consult with you and your adviser to plan the most advantageous gift for you, your family, and the College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, or the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Tara Goodman Executive Director 617-496-5060 tara_goodman@harvard.edu Sarah M. Carothers Director 617-496-4149 sarah_carothers@harvard.edu Grant H. Whitney Senior Associate Director 617-496-6248 grant_whitney@harvard.edu Anna S. Chiumenti Senior Associate Director 617-495-0914 anna_chiumenti@harvard.edu Macy L. Fernandes Development Assistant 617-496-3205 macy_fernandes@harvard.edu Ashley M. Morales Development Assistant 617-495-4476 ashley_morales@harvard.edu Contact Planned Giving Email: ogp@harvard.edu Phone: 617-496-3205 or 1-800-VERITAS (ask for the Office of Gift Planning) Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College