Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu All News Sub Navigation In This Section News & Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories 268 Results based on your selections. Alumni & Friends Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2021 March 26, 2021 On May 13, the Brown community came together to support all that Brown makes possible. Read Article Open details for Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2021 News from Brown Brown’s medical students find the silver lining in another virtual Match Day March 19, 2021 Soon-to-graduate students from the Warren Alpert Medical School, about to be placed in medical residency programs across the country, celebrated in person with small groups of friends and family — and with many more loved ones online. Read Article Open details for Brown’s medical students find the silver lining in another virtual Match Day Alumni & Friends Saving a "lost" summer: Reinventing experiential learning at Brown March 19, 2021 The pandemic robbed many students of their summer internships and research opportunities. With the SPRINT program, the University created hundreds of new opportunities — and a new way to offer learning beyond the classroom. Read Article Open details for Saving a &quot;lost&quot; summer: Reinventing experiential learning at Brown Alumni & Friends Removing financial barriers — one promise at a time March 19, 2021 The Brown Promise has made the dream of a Brown education possible for many exceptional students. Through an ongoing giving challenge, we're seeking to make it a permanent part of Brown's financial aid programs. Read Article Open details for Removing financial barriers — one promise at a time Alumni & Friends Hope for rare diseases March 16, 2021 Sandi Nusinoff Lehrman ’69 MD’76 and Stephen A. Lehrman ’73 have seen two grandchildren battle a rare neurological disease. Through their philanthropy, they're supporting Brown's Center for Translational Neuroscience in its crusade to discover new treatments for rare brain diseases. Read Article Open details for Hope for rare diseases Alumni & Friends Bridging the STEM gender gap March 16, 2021 With the BrownTogether campaign, the University is creating more opportunity and a stronger sense of community for women faculty in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Read Article Open details for Bridging the STEM gender gap Alumni & Friends Dr. Ashish Jha on vaccines, climate change, and the future of public health March 16, 2021 Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, Dr. Jha has been a national advocate for effective testing and prevention strategies. Now as the new dean of the rapidly growing School of Public Health, he's bringing together minds from every corner of Brown to tackle the public health crises of today and tomorrow. Read Article Open details for Dr. Ashish Jha on vaccines, climate change, and the future of public health Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Amanda Boston AM'16 PhD'18 March 12, 2021 As a grad student, Boston looked forward to learning from the top minds in her field. What she found was family. Learn why she gives back to Brown by serving as New Alumni Trustee on the Corporation. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Amanda Boston AM&#039;16 PhD&#039;18 Alumni & Friends Lorine Pendleton '91: Attorney and Venture Capitalist March 12, 2021 Recently named one of the “50 most connected women in America” by Marie Claire, Pendleton has put her varied career experiences to work investing in and advising women and diverse-led businesses. Read Article Open details for Lorine Pendleton &#039;91: Attorney and Venture Capitalist Alumni & Friends Brown medical students celebrate Match Day 2021 March 8, 2021 On March 19, The Warren Alpert Medical School's MD Class of 2021 joined medical students from around the country for Match Day. Read Article Open details for Brown medical students celebrate Match Day 2021 News from Brown Brown launches sustainability strategic plan to confront urgent environmental challenges March 5, 2021 A new strategic plan for sustainability outlines five key commitments to address Brown’s impact on the natural environment, while calling for an expansion of education and community engagement around sustainability issues. Read Article Open details for Brown launches sustainability strategic plan to confront urgent environmental challenges News from Brown Nationally recognized head of Penn athletics M. Grace Calhoun to lead athletics and recreation at Brown March 5, 2021 A varsity student-athlete who graduated in Brown’s Class of 1992, Calhoun will serve in a newly elevated role of vice president of athletics and recreation, beginning April 19, 2021. Read Article Open details for Nationally recognized head of Penn athletics M. Grace Calhoun to lead athletics and recreation at Brown News from Brown Brown to disburse $5.4 million in pandemic relief funding to eligible students March 1, 2021 Provost Richard M. Locke outlined Brown’s distribution model for $4.8 million in federal COVID-19 economic relief funding and an additional $550,000 in University funding to ensure students are treated equitably. Read Article Open details for Brown to disburse $5.4 million in pandemic relief funding to eligible students News from Brown $20 million in new giving marks growing support for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives at Brown February 26, 2021 With continued momentum in support of Brown’s diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, new BrownTogether gifts and grants are catalyzing research on race and inequity, and supporting students from underrepresented groups. Read Article Open details for $20 million in new giving marks growing support for diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives at Brown Alumni & Friends The battle against cancer February 15, 2021 Cancer doesn’t take a break, not even for a worldwide pandemic. The newly established Cancer Center at Brown University, directed by Dr. Wafik El-Deiry, is making sure advances in research and improvements to patient care continue uninterrupted. Read Article Open details for The battle against cancer Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Jeffrey Hines ’83 MD’86 February 15, 2021 From the professor who changed everything to his current role in University leadership, Jeffrey Hines reflects on how Brown has shaped his career, his life, and his community. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Jeffrey Hines ’83 MD’86 Alumni & Friends Nancy K. MacLean ’81 AM’81 on the significance of understanding our history February 8, 2021 In this episode of the Women’s Voices Amplified podcast, Ellen Hunter ’04 speaks with historian, author, and professor Nancy K. MacLean ’81 AM’81 about social movements, the state of our democracy, and how history can inform the present. Read Article Open details for Nancy K. MacLean ’81 AM’81 on the significance of understanding our history Alumni & Friends Brown Annual Fund Partner Challenge February 2, 2021 All Carrie Tower Society Partner-level gifts made March 1 through April 30, 2021 will be matched dollar-for-dollar. Read Article Open details for Brown Annual Fund Partner Challenge Alumni & Friends Fostering diverse approaches to understanding brain function February 2, 2021 Transformational new support for The Carney Institute for Brain Science is accelerating innovation and translational research into vital aspects of the human brain. Read Article Open details for Fostering diverse approaches to understanding brain function News from Brown $4.9 million grant project to interrogate legacy of colonialism, subjugation in New England February 2, 2021 Brown University, Williams College and the Mystic Seaport Museum scholars will use maritime history as a basis for studying the relationship between European colonization, dispossession of Native American land and racial slavery. Read Article Open details for $4.9 million grant project to interrogate legacy of colonialism, subjugation in New England News from Brown Alumni-led nonprofit donates monitors to Providence teachers in name of Brown professor February 2, 2021 Two Screens for Teachers, cofounded by Class of 1998 graduate Matthew Lerner, donated monitors to more than 400 Providence teachers in the name of legendary Brown professor Andy van Dam. Read Article Open details for Alumni-led nonprofit donates monitors to Providence teachers in name of Brown professor Alumni & Friends 25th Reunion Greek Competition (Class of 1996) February 1, 2021 A special giving competition for the Class of 1996's Greek community. Read Article Open details for 25th Reunion Greek Competition (Class of 1996) News from Brown Brown alumna Janet Yellen first woman to serve as treasury secretary January 28, 2021 The Class of 1967 Brown graduate and former Federal Reserve chair will advise President Joseph Biden and his cabinet on economic issues. Read Article Open details for Brown alumna Janet Yellen first woman to serve as treasury secretary News from Brown $25 million gift to Brown will fuel innovation in brain science January 26, 2021 The latest major investment in Brown’s cutting-edge brain science research, the generous gift will support computational brain science and endow a program to promote innovative research. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift to Brown will fuel innovation in brain science News from Brown Excitement, energy and a desire to explore: Class of 2024 undergrads arrive at Brown January 20, 2021 After a postponed arrival due to the pandemic, Brown’s 1,756 first-year undergraduate students began their first term at the University on Wednesday, Jan. 20 — and five of them shared their stories. Read Article Open details for Excitement, energy and a desire to explore: Class of 2024 undergrads arrive at Brown News from Brown Brown alumna to co-chair science and technology council under Biden administration January 20, 2021 Maria Zuber, a senior leader and faculty member at MIT who earned her Ph.D. from Brown, will lead the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology. Read Article Open details for Brown alumna to co-chair science and technology council under Biden administration News from Brown From largest pool to date, Brown admits 885 early decision applicants December 17, 2020 Selected from a total of 5,540 applicants, the Class of 2025’s first members reflect the University’s ongoing commitment to making a Brown education more accessible to students from every socioeconomic background. Read Article Open details for From largest pool to date, Brown admits 885 early decision applicants News from Brown Brown alumna selected for NASA’s new lunar exploration program December 14, 2020 As one of 18 astronauts selected for NASA’s Artemis program, Brown Class of 1999 graduate and accomplished astronaut Jessica Meir has a chance to become the first woman to walk on the Moon. Read Article Open details for Brown alumna selected for NASA’s new lunar exploration program Alumni & Friends 7 stories of Brown women making a difference December 11, 2020 We salute these remarkable Brown alumnae whose important work, ranging from working on the front lines of the pandemic to fighting for democracy, inspired us in 2020. Read Article Open details for 7 stories of Brown women making a difference News from Brown Online and on-site, Brown and its partners ‘top off’ future Performing Arts Center December 10, 2020 To celebrate the topping-off of its future hub for performing arts scholarship, University leaders joined construction workers and key project partners for a live-streamed virtual ceremony complete with on-site drone footage. Read Article Open details for Online and on-site, Brown and its partners ‘top off’ future Performing Arts Center Alumni & Friends New research network spotlights obstruction to climate change action December 8, 2020 Backed with alumni support, the newly formed Climate Social Science Network is working to understand why climate change has become such a divisive issue—and how to counter the misinformation and barriers to progress surrounding it. Read Article Open details for New research network spotlights obstruction to climate change action Alumni & Friends Creating a home for student veterans December 8, 2020 Brown has taken several steps toward building a more welcoming and supportive environment for student veterans. But none has been more important than boosting the amount of financial aid available to those who have served their country with honor. Read Article Open details for Creating a home for student veterans Alumni & Friends Across the curriculum, diversity courses are teaching essentials skills December 8, 2020 Through its diversity and inclusion action plan, Brown is bringing topics on race, gender, and inequality into classrooms across a variety of departments. Read Article Open details for Across the curriculum, diversity courses are teaching essentials skills Alumni & Friends A look back: 2020 highlights December 7, 2020 From providing emergency support to students during a global pandemic to game-changing research in malaria, we're looking back at some important accomplishments supported by Brown donors in a year that was anything but ordinary. Read Article Open details for A look back: 2020 highlights Alumni & Friends Put a bow on it: The ultimate Brunonian gift guide December 7, 2020 Four meaningful holiday gift ideas that also enrich the lives of Brown alumni. Read Article Open details for Put a bow on it: The ultimate Brunonian gift guide Alumni & Friends Kristin Richardson Jordan ’09: Civic leader November 17, 2020 In this episode of the Women’s Voices Amplified podcast, Almaz S. Dessie '07 MD'11 F'17 speaks with Kristin Richardson Jordan ’09 about her recent run for New York City Council, the late-night conversations at Brown that helped shape her worldview, and what we can all do to affect change locally.* Read Article Open details for Kristin Richardson Jordan ’09: Civic leader Alumni & Friends How Brown is embracing its veteran community November 17, 2020 With University initiatives and generous community support, more student veterans are making their academic home on College Hill. Read Article Open details for How Brown is embracing its veteran community News from Brown $20 million gift to enable full scholarships for U.S. military veterans at Brown November 11, 2020 A generous gift from U.S. Army veteran and Brown parent Joseph P. Healey will provide crucial support for Brown’s plan to double the number of student veterans enrolled as undergraduates by 2024. Read Article Open details for $20 million gift to enable full scholarships for U.S. military veterans at Brown Alumni & Friends Brown's Giving Tuesday 2020 | December 1 November 2, 2020 With more than $4 million raised by 4,000+ supporters, the Brown community helped make Giving Tuesday 2020 one of our biggest giving days ever. Read Article Open details for Brown&#039;s Giving Tuesday 2020 | December 1 Alumni & Friends Cogut students and faculty on why we need the humanities October 28, 2020 From climate change to racial inequity, the students, faculty, and researchers of the Cogut Institute are tackling the biggest issues of our time—and proving why the humanities are more important than ever. Read Article Open details for Cogut students and faculty on why we need the humanities News from Brown With global scholarly network, Brown faculty to advance study of climate change countermovement October 27, 2020 The Climate Social Science Network, based at the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society, will bring together leading scholars to catalyze collaborative research on the interests that are stalling climate action. Read Article Open details for With global scholarly network, Brown faculty to advance study of climate change countermovement Alumni & Friends Brown welcomes incoming medical students with White Coat Ceremony October 27, 2020 The Warren Alpert Medical School celebrated the MD Class of 2024 with a virtual event as first-year medical students donned their white coats. Read Article Open details for Brown welcomes incoming medical students with White Coat Ceremony Alumni & Friends 7 ways to get a dose of Brown in your life this fall October 25, 2020 Looking for an intellectual boost? Want some new experiences? From election night watch parties to virtual meet-ups, here are a few ways that Brown alumni can get involved with and connect with the University this season. Read Article Open details for 7 ways to get a dose of Brown in your life this fall Alumni & Friends Empowered to Heal October 16, 2020 Faculty in Brown’s Division of Biology and Medicine are pushing boundaries in the name of patient health. Read Article Open details for Empowered to Heal News from Brown Researchers discuss BrainGate, restorative neurotechnology at Brown and beyond October 14, 2020 In a conversation with leaders of Brown’s Carney Institute for Brain Science, two Brown neuroengineers explored how brain-computer interfaces promise to help restore movement in people with brain or spinal disorders. Read Article Open details for Researchers discuss BrainGate, restorative neurotechnology at Brown and beyond News from Brown Dr. Ashish Jha: For public health leaders, ‘expertise plus humanity’ is key to success October 1, 2020 A prominent global voice on COVID-19 and the new dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, Dr. Jha weighs in on lessons from the pandemic and how educators can best train future leaders in health and medicine. Read Article Open details for Dr. Ashish Jha: For public health leaders, ‘expertise plus humanity’ is key to success News from Brown With 12.1% return, Brown endowment grows to record $4.7 billion October 1, 2020 The endowment provided $171 million to the University’s operating budget in Fiscal Year 2020, with contributions supporting student financial aid, faculty research and strategic priorities in an uncertain financial environment. Read Article Open details for With 12.1% return, Brown endowment grows to record $4.7 billion Alumni & Friends What financial aid makes possible September 30, 2020 Talent. Determination. Leadership. With expanded support for financial aid, we're propelling budding leaders forward and helping students become who they were meant to be. Read Article Open details for What financial aid makes possible Alumni & Friends Collaboration across boundaries drives brain science discoveries September 30, 2020 The Carney Institute for Brain Science is taking an unparalleled approach to artificial intelligence, neurodegeneration, and chronic disease prevention by bringing together brilliant minds across Brown. Read Article Open details for Collaboration across boundaries drives brain science discoveries News from Brown Virtual event series to examine causes, consequences of health disparities in U.S. September 30, 2020 In “Decoding Disparities,” presented by Brown’s Warren Alpert Medical School and School of Public Health, experts will discuss adverse impacts on the health of Black and Indigenous individuals and people of color in America. Read Article Open details for Virtual event series to examine causes, consequences of health disparities in U.S. Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page