Coronavirus (COVID-19) information and resources. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quick Links Update Your Information Make a Gift Ranks and Impacts Visit Parents Association Student Alumni Association Scholarships UC Riverside ALUMNI Search Home Get Involved Get Involved Overview Alumni Networks Advocacy Board of Directors Give Volunteer Travel with Fellow Highlanders Career Services Membership Students Students Overview SAA Executive Board SAA Programs SAA Events Scholarships Care Packages for Students Events About About Overview Board of Directors Notable Alumni Alumni Awards FAQs Contact Us UCR Home Quick Links Update Your Information Make a Gift Ranks and Impacts Visit Parents Association Student Alumni Association Scholarships Alumni Networks Breadcrumb Alumni Networks As an alumnus, you are part of a network of more than 130,000 Highlanders. UCR is on the rise, and the accomplishments of alumni have contributed to that growth and the enhancement of the university's prestige. Find fellow Highlanders in your area, through a identity network, or by staying connected to your college or school to share resources, ideas, and experiences. Regional Networks Inland Empire Get in touch! President Samantha Morrison ’05 ucriean@gmail.com STAY CONNECTED ON SOCIAL IE Facebook Page | IE Instagram Los Angeles Get in touch! President Eric Malmquist ’11 ucraala@gmail.com STAY CONNECTED ON SOCIAL LA Facebook | LA LinkedIn | LA Twitter Orange County Get in touch! President Anh Pham ’13 ucraaoc@gmail.com STAY CONNECTED ON SOCIAL OC Facebook | OC Twitter San Francisco Bay Area Get in touch! President Tony Yang ’03, Ph.D. ’10 ucraasf@gmail.com STAY CONNECTED ON SOCIAL Bay Area Facebook Page United Kingdom (UK) Get in touch! Highlanders in London UCRHighlandersinLondon@gmail.com STAY CONNECTED ON SOCIAL London Facebook Page Identity Networks Black Alumni Get in touch! President Keona Henderson ’08 ucraaba@gmail.com Review the Bylaws STAY CONNECTED ON SOCIAL BAC Facebook Page | BAC Instagram | BAC LinkedIn Meet the Board Keona Henderson ’08, President Realtor, entrepreneur, author, motivational speaker, and a boundless creative. Keona earned her bachelor's degree in English from the UCR and founded Positive Women Meet Up, LLC (PWM), a powerful networking platform for women to connect, create, and collaborate. Tiffany Young ’08, Secretary Licensed clinical social worker and CEO of Equal Education for All, a non-profit organization dedicated to helping at-risk youth access higher education. Tiffany earned a BA in political science from UCR, an MA in social work, and is currently working on a Ph.D. in education at USC. Marvel Johnson ’18, Communications Manager As a first-generation college student from an immigrant family, Marvel earned a BA in psychology and has set out to empower vulnerable populations. She is currently a behavioral therapist for Behavioral Health Works, Inc. Lisa Glionna, MFA ’16, Treasurer Advocate for student success with a desire to improve literacy outcomes for underserved populations in public schools. Lisa earned her M.Ed. with an emphasis in Autism from the UCR Graduate School of Education in 2016. Bert Wright ’99, Immediate Past President A social entrepreneur that is a silent warrior who epitomizes servant leadership. Bert is a proponent of #VillageBusiness, a belief that as we lift our community, we all benefit as individuals. He accomplishes this mission through financial advocacy as a wealth manager. Give back to the next generation of Highlanders Support Black Alumni Programming Chicano Latino Alumni The mission of UCR Chicano Latino Alumni is to build a community that advocates and creates opportunities for the academic excellence, professional growth, and advancement of Chicano Latino students, alumni, staff, faculty, and community at large. Get in touch! Chair Alex Cortez ’02, M.S. ’09 ucrcla@gmail.com Review the Bylaws STAY CONNECTED ON SOCIAL CLA Facebook Page | CLA Instagram | CLA Twitter Give back to the next generation of Highlanders Support Chicano Latino Alumni Programming Korean Alumni Get in touch! President Taee Hyun (Mike) Kwon ucrkaa@gmail.com Alumni Resources for Colleges and Schools Marlan and Rosemary Bourns College of Engineering Meet other BCOE Alumni College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences Stay Connected to CHASS College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences Stay Connected to CNAS Graduate School of Education Stay Connected to GSOE School of Business Stay Connected to the School of Business School of Medicine Stay Connected to the School of Medicine School of Public Policy Stay Connected to SPP Network Resources Domestic Network Guidelines Learn what’s required to form an alumni constituency group. Download Chapter Guidelines Domestic Network Board Application Apply to serve on an alumni network's board of directors. Apply Now International Club Guidelines Learn what’s required to form an international alumni club. Download International Club Guidelines International Network Board Application Apply to serve on an international alumni network's board of directors. Apply Now Event Request Form Planning an alumni event in your area? We can help! Event Request Form Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Alumni Engagement 2203 Alumni & Visitors Center Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-2586 (UCR-ALUMNI) fax: (951) 398-4887 email: ucralum@ucr.edu Follow US: Alumni Facebook Page UCR Alumni Twitter UCR Alumni Instagram UCR Alumni LinkedIn Related Links Student Alumni Association Parents Association Update Contact Information Give Now Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel