Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography 2021 Away Game Tailgates You are here: Home1 / Uncategorized2 / 2021 Away Game Tailgates Clemson Family Tailgate – Cheez-It Bowl, Orlando, FL – SOLD OUT The Clemson Alumni Association and IPTAY are excited to host the Clemson Family Tailgate prior to the Cheez-It Bowl. Your Tigers are taking on the Iowa State Cyclones on Wednesday, December 29 in Orlando, FL. Join your fellow Tigers prior to the game for the Clemson Family Tailgate! The tailgate will take place from 2 to 5 pm on Wednesday, December 29. Tickets include a buffet meal and complimentary soft drinks and water. For those 21 and over with photo ID, complimentary red and white wine and beer will be served. Tickets are $100 for adults 21 and over, $50 for ages 3 to 20 years old and free for children 2 and under. Tickets are non-refundable and will be on sale until sold out. The tailgate will be conveniently located in the Cheez-It Bowl Fan Fest at Tinker Field beside Camping World Stadium at the corner of Tampa Avenue and Church Street. Fan Fest is free to attend, and you must have a game ticket to enter. All Clemson Family Tailgate tickets will be delivered via mobile delivery. You must have a game ticket to enter both the Cheez-It Bowl Fan Fest and the Clemson Family Tailgate. Please be sure to have all tickets downloaded to your mobile wallet and ID for you and your guests to check into the tailgate. Please note that Camping World Stadium has a clear bag policy that will also be enforced for the Clemson Family Tailgate. Tailgate menu will include: BBQ Chicken & Pulled Pork Vegetarian soy ribs Mac & cheese Cole slaw Tossed salad Fresh baked rolls Cupcakes Unlimited domestic beer, craft/local beer, premium red & white wine, Pepsi products, water and tea The Clemson Family Tailgate will also feature a live DJ from start to finish, professional face painter and promotional giveaway items from your Clemson Alumni Association and IPTAY. We hope to CU there! Please direct any questions to cualumni@clemson.edu. Other Clemson Events Surrounding the Cheez-It Bowl Tuesday, December 28, 2021 Cheez-It Bowl Pep Rally 4:00-5:30 PM Gather with our Clemson Tigers at the official pep rally at Pointe Orlando. LEARN MORE ❯❯ Tuesday, December 28, 2021 Welcome to Orlando 7:00 PM ACE Café Join the Central Florida Clemson Club, the Clemson Alumni Association and IPTAY at Ace Café (100 W. Livingston Street, Orlando, Fl 32801) before the big game. There will be live bands and give-away items in a family friendly environment with no cover charge. LEARN MORE ❯❯ Travel with the Clemson Family When your Clemson Tigers are headed to an away game or post season, travel with Clemson Sports Travel, the official travel program of Clemson Athletics and Clemson Alumni. Specific details will be available when the Tigers travel and a package is available. Join your fellow Tigers in Orlando! Your Official Clemson Travel Package Includes: Rosen Shingle Creek – Orlando Florida – Click to Book Now! Three Nights Accommodations Check-in: Monday, 12/27/2021 Check-out: Thursday, 12/30/2021 Official Clemson Team Hotel Official Clemson Pregame Tailgate Join your fellow Tigers in Orlando to get your game day started off right Designed to give Clemson fans a place to gather before the big game, your pre-game festivities will be conveniently located to the Stadium and personalized to include a tailgate inspired lunch menu with beer, wine, and festive entertainment Deluxe Round-Trip Gameday Transfers Deluxe roundtrip motorcoach transportation will take you to and from Camping World Stadium on Gameday View All Upcoming Events Find a Club in your Area Virtual Engagement Opportunities Event Photography Reconnect to Clemson Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info