Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Access and Affordability Venture Forward: Access and Affordability To a day when Princeton can offer a transformative educational experience to a greater number of talented students, regardless of their socioeconomic background. Opportunity and Inclusivity From trailblazing research to wide-ranging support programs, Princeton faculty, students, staff and alumni are working across disciplines to address inequities of access, socioeconomic status, social justice and government policy. “By inviting more students from a variety of backgrounds to attend and contribute, we are not only building a better University community, we’re helping create a better world.” — Mellody Hobson ’91 Gifts Major gift from Jaimie and James Yeh ’87 names residential college and supports undergraduate expansion Yeh College, comprised of four dormitory halls and previously referred to as New College East, will open in August to welcome returning students and the Class of 2026. Watch the Video Gifts The Emma Bloomberg Center for Access and Opportunity established at Princeton University through major gift from Bloomberg Philanthropies The Center will bring together the University’s nation-leading initiatives in college access and opportunity, and serve as a hub for research and innovation in the field of college access and success. Explore the Center Gifts Princeton’s pioneering financial aid program has benefitted 10,000+ students over last 20 years In 2001, Princeton made history by becoming the first university in the country to remove loans from its financial aid packages. The decision enabled students to graduate debt-free and opened Princeton’s gates to talented young people who would previously have found the University unaffordable. See the Impact Did You Know? 100% of the demonstrated financial need of every student is met by grants. 83% of recent seniors graduated with no debt. For seniors who borrowed, the average total indebtedness at graduation was $9,600. Admission is need-blind for all applicants, including international students. Graduate fellowships help Princeton’s Graduate School attract the most promising emerging scholars. Ph.D. students are guaranteed funding typically for five years. Look Behind the Numbers Access and Success Princeton is committed to providing all students, including those from first-generation, lower-income and underrepresented backgrounds, with the mentorship, academic enrichment and community that they need to thrive at Princeton. Aiming for transformation: How we Fli at Princeton The modern face of science Princeton recognizes 50 years of community and inclusion First-gen alumnus Kelton Chastulik ’21 paves path for others Princeton joins national celebration of first-generation college students New Indigenous initiatives ushered in at Princeton Annual Giving Forward Together Bioengineering Explore Innovation Data Science Unlock Solutions Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram