Skip to main content ncstate-alumni-wolf-web Alumni Association Menu Close About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Bricks and Pavers facebook twitter linked in email About About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine NC State Magazine Merchandise Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Bricks and Pavers Leave a Legacy Alumni Association members save $50 on the purchase of a brick or paver in the J. Patrick and Anne Ferebee-Gavaghan Family Donor Plaza at the Dorothy and Roy Park Alumni Center. Honor your lifelong Wolfpack connections—or the people who made them possible for you—with an engraved brick or paver. List your class year, major, profession or extracurricular interests. Your brick is embedded in the Park Alumni Center plaza for generations to see and, as a member, you receive a discount on your purchase. The four-by-eight-inch brick ($150 or $100 for members) holds three lines of text. Each line is limited to 14 characters, including spaces and punctuation. The eight-by-eight-inch paver ($250 or $200 for members) holds six lines of text. Each line is limited to 14 characters, including spaces and punctuation. Order Today Once your order is placed, you will receive a Gift of Appreciation certificate suitable for framing to present to the recipient. Questions? Contact alumni-assoc-online@ncsu.edu. Alumni Association Home Campus Box 7503 NC State University Raleigh NC 27695-7503 919.515.3375 Campus Map About Membership Events Engagement News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.