Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Alumni news Search Upcoming Events CC of Cape Cod 2022 Annual Meeting June 1 @ 6:30 pm The ABCs of NFTs June 2 @ 11:30 am CAA Northern California - Cornellian Happy Hour June 2 @ 3:30 pm Class of 1978 Knickerbocker Rooftop Reception June 3 @ 5:30 pm Cornell Club of Boston - Cranberry Bog Tour June 4 @ 10:00 am More Events Explore stories by topic 150 Words Alumni news Alumni profile Career support Coming Back Cornelliana Diversity Encounters Gathering Giving International Leadership Learning My Big Red Summer Networking Recognition Students Teaching Traveling Volunteering Voting Join events near you Return to campus or find a Big Red party in your own neighborhood. SEE EVENTS Plant lover and Earth advocate When Sandra Knapp PhD ’86 started her undergraduate career at Pomona College in Claremont, California, she was set on taking a course in marine science. Having grown up in the desert in rural New Mexico, the ocean held great allure for Sandy. But when she was not able to get in because the course was … Read more By Linda Copman April 21, 2022 Recent grads on a mission to support Ukraine Mark Kreynovich ’19 and Dillon Carroll ’20 were first-year roommates and best friends at Cornell, and share a commitment to service, along with a birthday: February 25. They’re also now sharing an extraordinary journey. Mark, who was born in Kharkiv, Ukraine, and Dillon, who grew up in Ridgewood, NJ, dropped everything to travel to Eastern … Read more By Kaitlin Provost March 23, 2022 Look them up: young alumni in tech As Cornell Tech celebrates its 10th year, the school has become a global hub for tech innovation. Over the past decade, Cornell Tech has helped make NYC the second most valuable startup ecosystem in the world, after Silicon Valley. Cornell Tech opened its campus on Roosevelt Island just five years ago, with 30 faculty and … Read more By Linda Copman March 23, 2022 Cornell is a gateway to opportunity for Ukrainian student Maryna Mullerman DVM ’25 says Cornell has always been her dream school. Growing up in Ukraine, she spent many summers on her grandparents’ farm outside Kharkiv, where she enjoyed fishing, catching insects, and observing wildlife. She says she knew she wanted to be veterinarian by the time she was eight years old. She began researching … Read more By Linda Copman March 8, 2022 Coffee, tea, and hot chocolate: Cornellians who fill your cup Whether you prefer to warm up your day with coffee, tea, or cocoa—you’re not alone. Coffee is the second largest exported product worldwide, second only to oil. More than half of Americans drink coffee on a daily basis, averaging three cups daily. This puts the U.S. 25th in the world in per capita coffee consumption, … Read more By Linda Copman February 21, 2022 Snow globe: winter reflections from Cornellians around the world One thing Cornellians have in common is WINTER. For some, winter in Ithaca was a chilling experience that still brings shivers and memories of snow that turned to ice, to slush, and back again over the course of a few hours, days, weeks, and months. Some of us embraced the season, sliding on makeshift sleds … Read more By Linda Copman February 2, 2022 Meet the 2022 Alumni Trustee Election candidates Voting is open February 1–28 for Cornell alumni to elect two new members to the Cornell University Board of Trustees. Four candidates are endorsed by the Committee on Alumni Trustee Nominations: Dr. Deborah J. Arrindell ’79, Dr. Nathan Theodore Connell ’01, Kimberly Nicole Dowdell ’06, and Reginald Fils-Aimé ’83. In this brief Q&A, you’ll hear … Read more By Kaitlin Provost January 10, 2022 Rodney A. Brooks ’75 is helping Black Americans build wealth “A host of positive psychological changes inevitably will result from widespread economic security. The dignity of the individual will flourish when the decisions concerning his life are in his own hands, when he has the means to seek self-improvement.” —Martin Luther King Jr., from his 1967 book Where Do We Go from Here: Chaos or … Read more By Linda Copman January 10, 2022 Cornell moments: hallmark stories of 2021 We are united by a common purpose As we look forward to 2022, we wanted to take a few moments to celebrate 2021. This was a year in which many Cornellians transitioned back to in-person learning and work. We were grateful for the power of science and for the researchers who developed lifesaving vaccines and … Read more By Linda Copman December 14, 2021 Lamin Johnson ’21: sparking connections through art Lamin Johnson’s superpower is bringing people together. The Class of 2021 grad and spoken word artist is known for writing thoughtful and poignant poetry that bridges generations. Lamin has performed two pieces for Cornell, including a poem composed in honor of the launch of Cornell’s university-wide To Do the Greatest Good campaign. Alumni from across … Read more By Kaitlin Provost November 22, 2021 Show More Plan your Reunion Reunion has something for everyone. Browse events and create a custom itinerary to make the most of your weekend on the Hill! Can't make it in person? Choose the Virtual Reunion package during registration and get access to featured livestream events. Make your schedule Ho Plaza looking south from atop McGraw Tower. Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022