Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Alumni Association Toggle navigation Site Menu Membership Join Today Renew Your Membership Membership Overview Why Become a Member? Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks Alumni Directory My oneFSU Dashboard Students Student Alumni Association Join SAA SAA Membership Perks My oneFSU Dashboard Honors Alumni Ambassadors Award Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Legacy Scholarship Grads Made Good The Inspire Award Community Alumni Networks Alumni Career Services Events Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Alumni Travel Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Webinar Resources Virtual Alumni Resources Support Join, Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Give to the Legacy Scholarship Give to the FSU Alumni Association Give to the FSU Alumni Association Endowment Give to FSU Academic Programs Purchase a Westcott Plaza Brick Support the Alumni Ambassadors Fund About About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Annual Highlights Alumni Center & Events Employment Frequently Asked Questions Financial Information Map and Directions Sponsorship Opportunities FSU Alumni Center Toggle navigation SECTION MENU Community Alumni Networks Career Resources Events Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Webinar Resources Virtual Alumni Resources Football Headquarters Alumni Networks About FSU Alumni Networks: The FSU Alumni Association charters affiliated Alumni Networks to serve Florida State University alumni. These volunteer-led groups are an avenue for FSU alumni to connect with fellow graduates who share similar interests or affiliations. Jump to: Asian American Alumni Black Alumni Young Alumni Network Emeritus Alumni Pride Network Veteran Alumni Society Hispanic/Latinx Jewish Alumni Network Ready to connect with one of our Alumni Networks? Look below for links to each network's web page and social media pages. Asian American Alumni Florida State University Asian American Alumni (FSU AAA) aims to develop a network of Asian American alumni and friends on behalf of Florida State University. In partnership with FSU, FSU AAA works to supplement the lives of Asian American alumni, students and friends through participation in events and programming. These activities create opportunities for the FSU Asian American community to become more engaged with the university, expand peer and alumni networks, improve career development and placement, and provide financial support for scholarships and programs for current and future minority students. Visit Website Black Alumni Florida State University Black Alumni’s (BA) mission is to build a network of black alumni and friends and sustain meaningful relationships on behalf of Florida State University. With events and programming designed specifically for black alumni and students, BA provides a framework that allows alumni to network with peers, socialize with fellow graduates and serve the university and community. Visit Website Emeritus Alumni Founded in 1974, the Emeritus Alumni Society is a constituency organization of the Florida State University Alumni Association organized to encourage the continuing interest and participation of those alumni who have reached emeritus status: alumni who graduated from the university 50 or more years ago. Visit Website Hispanic/Latinx Alumni The mission for FSU Hispanic/Latinx Alumni Network is to continue fostering the community created at Florida State for Hispanic/Latinx Alumni. They aim to promote representation, encourage participation and assist graduating students to continue their commitment to FSU as alumni. The network strives to connect alumni, families, friends, and fans who are passionate about FSU and their Hispanic/Latinx culture through ongoing events and programming. President: Stefany Moncada Visit Website Jewish Alumni Network Mission Statement: To provide Alumni of The Florida State University who are Jewish with an opportunity to connect back to the university while bettering Jewish life at FSU. The Jewish Alumni Network will provide opportunities for Jewish Alumni to have a long-term commitment for the betterment of Jewish life and overall improvement at The Florida State University. The Jewish concept of passing along traditions and values “from generation to generation,” known as l’dor v’dor, is something our Alumni Network will embrace. Are you interested in joining this network? Please complete this interest form. Questions? Email us at fsujewishalumni@fsu.edu. Meet the Board: Jared Ross (B.A. ’99) (J.D. ’06), President Nancy Rothstein (B.S. ’01) (J.D. ’06), Vice-President Jeanne Belin (B.S. ’93), Secretary Ron Krudo (B.S. ’13) (M.A. ’14), Treasurer Derek Grant Silver (B.S. ’16) (J.D. ’19) Liz Iskow (B.S. ’14) Scott Knapp (B.S. ’02) Lauren Lange (B.S. ’17) (M.A. ’19) Elyssa Ronik (B.A. ’17) (B.S. ’17) Evan Steinberg (B.S. '20) Pride Network The mission of the Florida State University Pride Network is to cultivate a network of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and allied alumni to sustain meaningful relationships on behalf of FSU. Membership is open to any alumnus, associate or affiliate of the university with an earnest and steadfast commitment to the aims and goals of LGBTQ+ alumni. For more information, contact info@fsupride.org. Visit Website Veteran Alumni Society In 1947, veterans returning from World War II enrolled at the Florida State College for Women and, as a result, FSCW became Florida State University. It is because of this proud veterans legacy – and in service to those currently enrolled service members, past and present – that Florida State has committed itself to creating and sustaining the most veteran friendly and empowering university in the nation. The Veterans Alumni Society was established to foster and enhance relationships between veteran alumni and currently enrolled student-veterans, as well as veterans who are Florida State faculty and staff members. Visit Website Young Alumni Network Florida State University Young Alumni Council (YAC) plans and implements programs and activities which will engage recent graduates of Florida State University, provides leadership and guidance to the staff of the alumni association on matters of concern to young alumni and works to build a culture of leadership among Florida State’s young alumni. Visit Website OFFICIAL PARTNERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Their generous support allows the FSU Alumni Association to provide programs, services and events to you. MEMBERS Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Member Perks Reward Zone Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks STUDENTS Student Alumni Association Join SAA Benefits of SAA Membership Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks HONORS Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award COMMUNITY Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Events Football HQ Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Travel Programs ABOUT US About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Sponsorship Opportunities ALUMNI CENTER Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions FSU Alumni Association 1030 W. Tennessee St. Tallahassee, FL 32304 Email Us (850) 644-2761 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright Close