Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Ways to Volunteer Volunteer Leadership Awards and Recognition Volunteer Resources Cornell Cares Week Cornell Cares is back for a second time this year! Please join us from July 9 - 16 and do the greatest good right where you live. Submit Your Event! Sign up for Cornell Cares Week! Thank you to everyone who was able to host events on January 8, 2022! We know that many groups were unable to participate or had to cancel events due to COVID-19, so we are offering a second opportunity to participate in Cornell Cares. Join us from July 9 - 16 to do the greatest good right where you live. Submit Your Event Jason Koski/Cornell University Find an event near you Event list coming soon! Make a difference on campus Make a difference on campus all year long by exploring the colleges, units, teams, projects, and groups doing the work that means the most to you. With every gift to an area or need you care about, you help students, touch communities, and help Cornell do the greatest good. Nominate alumni Nominate qualified alumni for volunteer roles within Cornell University. Support the David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Celebrate the David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement, formerly known as the Cornell Public Service Center, with a gift. Support your favorite area of Cornell Support the Cornell University programs, scholarships, annual funds, or projects you care about. Find Your Reason Connect with local organizations Use these national search engines to find organizations to support during Cornell Cares Week. Volunteer Match Create the Good DoSomething United Way Thank you for representing Cornell Every year, the David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement partners with Alumni Affairs Regional Programs and the Cornell Clubs and Associations to realize Cornell Cares. Thank you to all of our volunteers for participating this year! Stay connected to Cornell Moved? New phone number? Keep in touch. Update your information More public service opportunities From the David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement Learn more Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022