Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Philanthropy Breadcrumb Home All News All News Sub Navigation In This Section News & Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories 45 Results based on your selections. Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center May 25, 2022 Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 Read Article Open details for Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Alumni & Friends This is what $3 billion looks like December 9, 2021 How did BrownTogether reach $3 billion? What does it mean for Brown? We’ll let the numbers tell the story. Read Article Open details for This is what $3 billion looks like Alumni & Friends $25 million gift to Brown to accelerate discovery at renamed Legorreta Cancer Center December 9, 2021 Generous support from the Legorreta family will propel plans for a world-class, nationally designated cancer center at Brown that will turn basic science into treatments for patients in Rhode Island and beyond. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift to Brown to accelerate discovery at renamed Legorreta Cancer Center Alumni & Friends Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign November 2, 2021 Having reached its target more than a year ahead of schedule, the University will continue raising funds for student scholarships and faculty research, while establishing new goals in the months to come. Read Article Open details for Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign Alumni & Friends Celebrating five years of Brown’s hub for entrepreneurship September 22, 2021 Launched in 2016, the Nelson Center is championing “the Brown way” of entrepreneurship: combining learning, research, and practice to support students in realizing their next big idea. Read Article Open details for Celebrating five years of Brown’s hub for entrepreneurship Alumni & Friends A parent’s love, a lasting legacy September 22, 2021 Through her daughter, Cristina García P’14 saw firsthand the power of a Brown education. Through her planned gift, she hopes to give other Latinx families the same experience. Read Article Open details for A parent’s love, a lasting legacy Alumni & Friends The best way to fight Alzheimer’s? Together. June 16, 2021 By convening innovative researchers across academia, Brown’s new Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research hopes to accelerate the pace of development for treatments and cures of this devastating disease. Read Article Open details for The best way to fight Alzheimer’s? Together. Alumni & Friends Uncovering alternatives to animal testing June 16, 2021 Brown researchers are pursuing a promising new method that could transform toxicology testing, making it faster and more effective without the use of animals. Read Article Open details for Uncovering alternatives to animal testing Alumni & Friends Football gets a modern home field advantage June 16, 2021 The Richard Gouse Field at Brown Stadium makes the jump to a new playing surface, giving football a “play fast” competitive home base. Read Article Open details for Football gets a modern home field advantage News from Brown $5 million gift to fuel new ideas, welcome new leadership at Brown’s Pembroke Center June 16, 2021 The gift from Class of 1976 Brown alumna Shauna Stark, the largest in the Pembroke Center’s history, will establish an endowed directorship and support bold feminist research by scholars from multiple fields of study. Read Article Open details for $5 million gift to fuel new ideas, welcome new leadership at Brown’s Pembroke Center Alumni & Friends Escalating the fight against Alzheimer’s disease May 10, 2021 Generous gifts totalling $30 million are supporting the establishment of the Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research at Brown, with a focus on early detection and viable treatments. Read Article Open details for Escalating the fight against Alzheimer’s disease Alumni & Friends Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2021 March 26, 2021 On May 13, the Brown community came together to support all that Brown makes possible. Read Article Open details for Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2021 Alumni & Friends Removing financial barriers — one promise at a time March 19, 2021 The Brown Promise has made the dream of a Brown education possible for many exceptional students. Through an ongoing giving challenge, we're seeking to make it a permanent part of Brown's financial aid programs. Read Article Open details for Removing financial barriers — one promise at a time Alumni & Friends Hope for rare diseases March 16, 2021 Sandi Nusinoff Lehrman ’69 MD’76 and Stephen A. Lehrman ’73 have seen two grandchildren battle a rare neurological disease. Through their philanthropy, they're supporting Brown's Center for Translational Neuroscience in its crusade to discover new treatments for rare brain diseases. Read Article Open details for Hope for rare diseases Alumni & Friends Bridging the STEM gender gap March 16, 2021 With the BrownTogether campaign, the University is creating more opportunity and a stronger sense of community for women faculty in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Read Article Open details for Bridging the STEM gender gap News from Brown Brown to disburse $5.4 million in pandemic relief funding to eligible students March 1, 2021 Provost Richard M. Locke outlined Brown’s distribution model for $4.8 million in federal COVID-19 economic relief funding and an additional $550,000 in University funding to ensure students are treated equitably. Read Article Open details for Brown to disburse $5.4 million in pandemic relief funding to eligible students Alumni & Friends Fostering diverse approaches to understanding brain function February 2, 2021 Transformational new support for The Carney Institute for Brain Science is accelerating innovation and translational research into vital aspects of the human brain. Read Article Open details for Fostering diverse approaches to understanding brain function News from Brown Alumni-led nonprofit donates monitors to Providence teachers in name of Brown professor February 2, 2021 Two Screens for Teachers, cofounded by Class of 1998 graduate Matthew Lerner, donated monitors to more than 400 Providence teachers in the name of legendary Brown professor Andy van Dam. Read Article Open details for Alumni-led nonprofit donates monitors to Providence teachers in name of Brown professor News from Brown $25 million gift to Brown will fuel innovation in brain science January 26, 2021 The latest major investment in Brown’s cutting-edge brain science research, the generous gift will support computational brain science and endow a program to promote innovative research. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift to Brown will fuel innovation in brain science Alumni & Friends New research network spotlights obstruction to climate change action December 8, 2020 Backed with alumni support, the newly formed Climate Social Science Network is working to understand why climate change has become such a divisive issue—and how to counter the misinformation and barriers to progress surrounding it. Read Article Open details for New research network spotlights obstruction to climate change action Alumni & Friends Creating a home for student veterans December 8, 2020 Brown has taken several steps toward building a more welcoming and supportive environment for student veterans. But none has been more important than boosting the amount of financial aid available to those who have served their country with honor. Read Article Open details for Creating a home for student veterans Alumni & Friends How Brown is embracing its veteran community November 17, 2020 With University initiatives and generous community support, more student veterans are making their academic home on College Hill. Read Article Open details for How Brown is embracing its veteran community Alumni & Friends Brown's Giving Tuesday 2020 | December 1 November 2, 2020 With more than $4 million raised by 4,000+ supporters, the Brown community helped make Giving Tuesday 2020 one of our biggest giving days ever. Read Article Open details for Brown&#039;s Giving Tuesday 2020 | December 1 Alumni & Friends What financial aid makes possible September 30, 2020 Talent. Determination. Leadership. With expanded support for financial aid, we're propelling budding leaders forward and helping students become who they were meant to be. Read Article Open details for What financial aid makes possible Alumni & Friends Collaboration across boundaries drives brain science discoveries September 30, 2020 The Carney Institute for Brain Science is taking an unparalleled approach to artificial intelligence, neurodegeneration, and chronic disease prevention by bringing together brilliant minds across Brown. Read Article Open details for Collaboration across boundaries drives brain science discoveries Alumni & Friends Alumni, Parents, and Friends Establish the Mahmoud Darwish Professorship in Palestinian Studies July 14, 2020 In late May 2020, Brown's Center for Middle East Studies announced the establishment of the inaugural endowed professorship in Palestinian Studies. Read Article Open details for Alumni, Parents, and Friends Establish the Mahmoud Darwish Professorship in Palestinian Studies Alumni & Friends Because of Brown June 23, 2020 For Scott Westerfield ’79 and Ed Miskevich ’79, Brown wasn't just where it all began: it’s where it was all made possible. Read Article Open details for Because of Brown Alumni & Friends How you can help Brown students in this emergency — and beyond May 29, 2020 Amidst the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), alumni and friends have stepped forward to meet our students' immediate needs. But we know that economic hardships will continue to increase in the months to come. Here's how you can help. Read Article Open details for How you can help Brown students in this emergency — and beyond News from Brown With 12.4% return, Brown endowment grows to record $4.2 billion September 27, 2019 The endowment’s strong performance was broad-based across the portfolio and bolstered by protecting capital during stock market declines. Read Article Open details for With 12.4% return, Brown endowment grows to record $4.2 billion Alumni & Friends One gift, 30 scholars...and counting July 9, 2019 Librarian and first-generation alumna Leonilda Gervasi, Class of 1921, left Brown a modest gift through her estate. Since then, there have been more than 30 Gervasi Scholars — and this number continues to grow. Learn more about the transformative power of planned giving. Read Article Open details for One gift, 30 scholars...and counting Alumni & Friends An ember catches fire: Expanding scope and resources for economics at Brown June 13, 2019 With gifts from Orlando Bravo ’92 and James and Cathleen Stone P’17, Brown’s economics department is examining wealth, poverty, and inequality from multiple perspectives. Read Article Open details for An ember catches fire: Expanding scope and resources for economics at Brown News from Brown $25 million Bravo Family Foundation gift will amplify Brown’s high-impact economics scholarship April 18, 2019 Generous support from the foundation will fund the creation of the Orlando Bravo Center for Economic Research, expanding the scope of research in the University’s top-ranked economics department. Read Article Open details for $25 million Bravo Family Foundation gift will amplify Brown’s high-impact economics scholarship Alumni & Friends An idea that “spoke to us”: Generous alumni add their support to new center March 15, 2019 Barry Sternlicht ’82, P’16 and Mimi Reichert Sternlicht ’83, P’16 hope their gift to a state-of-the-art health and wellness center will help Brown students to learn well and live well. Read Article Open details for An idea that “spoke to us”: Generous alumni add their support to new center News from Brown $3 billion BrownTogether campaign eclipses $2 billion milestone March 14, 2019 From investments in financial aid and faculty research to campus facilities and more, Brown’s most ambitious campaign in history is making an impact across the University. Read Article Open details for $3 billion BrownTogether campaign eclipses $2 billion milestone Alumni & Friends When we come together: Creating a new scholarship at lightning speed February 13, 2019 With resounding support from the alumni community, a new Annual Fund scholarship benefiting black students at Brown kicks off in 2019-20. Read Article Open details for When we come together: Creating a new scholarship at lightning speed News from Brown Campaign giving to support Brown Athletics surpasses $100 million January 31, 2019 With investments in coaching staff, facilities, recruiting and more, the BrownTogether campaign is significantly advancing the University’s goal of amplifying the scholar-athlete experience. Read Article Open details for Campaign giving to support Brown Athletics surpasses $100 million News from Brown $31.6 million gift will help fund performing arts center, strategic priorities for Brown November 13, 2018 The Diana Nelson and John Atwater Lobby will serve as a convening space in the University’s envisioned performing arts center, and additional funds from the couple will support the Brown Promise and Brown Annual Fund. Read Article Open details for $31.6 million gift will help fund performing arts center, strategic priorities for Brown News from Brown Friedman Hall opens its doors, culminating renewal of an iconic Brown building September 5, 2018 Supported by a $24 million gift from the Richard A. and Susan P. Friedman Family Foundation, a renovation transformed the interior of the former Wilson Hall and made the building fully accessible to individuals with disabilities. Read Article Open details for Friedman Hall opens its doors, culminating renewal of an iconic Brown building News from Brown Giving to Brown tops $389 million for 2017-18, far surpassing previous record July 17, 2018 From one of the largest gifts in Brown history to Annual Fund donations from more than 32,000 donors, members of the extended Brown community supported University priorities in teaching, research, student support and more. Read Article Open details for Giving to Brown tops $389 million for 2017-18, far surpassing previous record Alumni & Friends Advocating for women’s reproductive health July 13, 2018 Decades apart, two women of Brown support the quest for quality health care through activism, research, and giving. Read Article Open details for Advocating for women’s reproductive health News from Brown $100 million gift to Brown will name Carney Institute for Brain Science, advance discoveries and cures April 18, 2018 One of the single largest gifts in University history will drive research into brain and nerve disorders and establish one of the best-endowed brain institutes in the country. Read Article Open details for $100 million gift to Brown will name Carney Institute for Brain Science, advance discoveries and cures News from Brown $50 million gift to help translate research into cures for disease February 15, 2018 A new gift from Brown University Chancellor Samuel M. Mencoff and Ann S. Mencoff will establish medical research funds and support top medical scholars. Read Article Open details for $50 million gift to help translate research into cures for disease News from Brown Brown launches campaign to eliminate loans from University undergraduate financial aid packages September 20, 2017 Upon meeting fundraising goal, the University will be able to replace loans with scholarship funds in financial aid awards, building on need-blind admissions and other initiatives to make a Brown education more accessible. Read Article Open details for Brown launches campaign to eliminate loans from University undergraduate financial aid packages News from Brown $24 million gift will fund Wilson Hall renovation, renaming to Friedman Hall April 4, 2017 With support from the Richard A. and Susan P. Friedman Family Foundation, the University will launch a comprehensive renovation to create new classrooms, add social spaces and make the building fully accessible. Read Article Open details for $24 million gift will fund Wilson Hall renovation, renaming to Friedman Hall News from Brown $27 million gift to expand Brown’s effort to decipher disease, improve health November 14, 2016 A new gift from The Warren Alpert Foundation will allow the University to substantially expand and enhance its M.D./Ph.D. program and endow a professorship in the Brown Institute for Translational Science. Read Article Open details for $27 million gift to expand Brown’s effort to decipher disease, improve health Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Philanthropy Open details for Philanthropy Bookmark this Page