Coronavirus (COVID-19) information and resources. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quick Links Update Your Information Make a Gift Ranks and Impacts Visit Parents Association Student Alumni Association Scholarships UC Riverside ALUMNI Search Home Get Involved Get Involved Overview Alumni Networks Advocacy Board of Directors Give Volunteer Travel with Fellow Highlanders Career Services Membership Students Students Overview SAA Executive Board SAA Programs SAA Events Scholarships Care Packages for Students Events About About Overview Board of Directors Notable Alumni Alumni Awards FAQs Contact Us UCR Home Quick Links Update Your Information Make a Gift Ranks and Impacts Visit Parents Association Student Alumni Association Scholarships Help Build the UCR Career Network Sign up now Breadcrumb We’re proud to be more than 130,000 Highlanders Strong! As a graduate of America’s fastest rising ranked university, you're part of a young, vibrant alumni community that is changing the world in extraordinary ways! Discover the many networking opportunities, online career resources, educational conferences, travel experiences, and fun family-friendly events that we have to offer. Make new friends, volunteer for an awesome cause, launch a new business, catch a game, or let our visionary artists, musicians, and writers inspire you. Explore the many ways UCR’s people and research are transforming California and beyond. And know that your involvement and support empowers the dreams of the next generation. Events Find Your Place. Highlanders are everywhere, and there are multiple networks for you to join. Find a group in your area or connect with others that share your interests. Learn More Stay Connected Become a member of the UCR Alumni Association and enjoy the many benefits – both on and off-campus. Join Today We’re Here to Help You Excel in Your Career Find out what career resources are available to you. Explore More Give Back While Connecting with Fellow Highlanders Become a mentor, share your expertise, serve on a committee or participate in Highlander Day of Service. Learn More Travel with Us Take advantage of the UCRAA’s travel program with discounts on international trips. Plan Your Next Vacation Tell us About your Exciting Event We want to recognize the milestones and achievements of our alumni. Share your Accomplishments Notable Alumni Denise Verret '88 Denise is the CEO and zoo director of the Los Angeles Zoo and Botanical Gardens. She is the first African American woman to lead a major U.S. zoo. More Notable Alumni Latest News May 26, 2022 A drunk driver killed her parents. Now she’s graduating to honor them Azalea Corral has a family photo that shows her three younger siblings and parents smiling together against a Santa Barbara countryside backdrop. It was taken on February 8, 2020 — the last time they would pose together for a photo. The following day, both her parents succumbed to bodily injuries after a drunk driver struck them while they were out on their usual evening stroll in Goleta, a community about 12 miles west of Santa Barbara. Corral’s siblings were in the house; she was on a train back to Riverside. Read More » May 25, 2022 Marginalized communities of color face high COVID-19 risk UC Riverside study focused on farm-working communities in California’s Eastern Coachella Valley Read More » May 25, 2022 Gun control legislation is popular; why won't it pass? The routine has been too familiar for too many years. A school shooting or mass shooting event occurs and stirs the American consciousness for a moment. But a week or two passes and talk of gun-control legislation fades. The issue goes into hibernation until the next mass shooting event. In 2018, an opinion article by UCR political science Professor Ben Bishin was published in The Washington Post. It was Bishin's attempt to explain why the cycle keeps repeating itself, and who's to blame. Read More » May 24, 2022 Pheromones lure deadly palm weevils to their doom UC Riverside scientists have a new chemical weapon to seduce and kill the invasive, long-nosed beetles destroying California palm trees by the tens of thousands. Read More » More News Your Gift Supports When you give to UCR, you're supporting academic excellence, research, and student success. "This is a way to say thank-you. I want to thank UCR because it made me who I am today." — Cam Calkins Give Now UCR Magazine UCR Library UCR Extension Affinity Partners Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Alumni Engagement 2203 Alumni & Visitors Center Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-2586 (UCR-ALUMNI) fax: (951) 398-4887 email: ucralum@ucr.edu Follow US: Alumni Facebook Page UCR Alumni Twitter UCR Alumni Instagram UCR Alumni LinkedIn Related Links Student Alumni Association Parents Association Update Contact Information Give Now Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel