Skip to main content Expand main navigation To Duke Alumni homepage site search alumni directory register / sign in You need to be signed with your Duke OneLink account to search the alumni directory. Sign in now. If you don't have a Duke OneLink account, create one today. In order to access the alumni directory, class notes, your profile, and more, sign in now with OneLink. If you don't have a Duke OneLink account, create one today. Events All Events Regional Events Duke Alums Engage Women's Forum Game Watches Send-Off Parties Welcome Back to the City Homecoming DEMAN Women's Weekend Reunion Programs Lifelong Learning Online Courses and Resources Educational Excursions Newsletters Forever Learning Institute Summer Reads Duke Travels Upcoming Travels Sustainability Your Safety Women’s Programs Women’s Forum Women’s Weekend Student Programs and Resources Alumni Network Profile FAQs Duke Student Alumni Board Karsh Conversations Groups Browse All Groups Affinity Groups Industry Groups Regional Groups Reunion Groups School Groups Benefits Alumni Benefits Alumni Card Alumni Email Alumni Admissions Career Resources Campus Career Centers Career Advising Jobs and Networking Mentoring Library Resources Transcript Request News Alumni News Class Notes Duke Magazine Notable Alumni Engage Getting Started Volunteer Alumni Admissions Advisory Committee (AAAC) Search for Opportunities Microvolunteering Volunteer Resources Learn Travel Visiting Campus Give Support Duke Support Alumni Programming Duke Science and Technology When collaboration leads, breakthroughs follow. Discover how New to this site? Here’s how to get started. Sign in now to: UPDATE PROFILE FIND ALUMNI FIND CLASS NOTES GET/GIVE ADVICE VOLUNTEER FIND EVENTS FIND GROUPS GIVE Stay Engaged Feel like a student again The Forever Learning Institute brings new choose-your-own-adventure educational programs led by renowned Duke faculty each semester. Learn More Challenge Accepted By addressing challenges in computing, materials science, and body and brain resilience, Duke will usher in the future of research and reshape the way we educate tomorrow’s leaders in science and technology. Learn More A Commitment to Inclusion The Duke Alumni Board’s Committee for Diversity & Inclusion works to highlight programming and engagement opportunities so that all alumni feel welcome. Learn more Upcoming Events Duke Arab Alumni Launch and Fireside Chat with Mikey Muhanna '07 Jun 05 2022, 11:00am EDT Join us as we host our inaugural virtual event for Duke Arab Alumni, a professional network of Duke alumni that spans 18+ cities around the world. Duke Arab Alumni seeks to mobilize the talent and resources of its network for the benefit of Duke University and the Arab region. Duke Arab Alumni is a nonpolitical and nonreligious entity. Learn more and register > From Carbon Offsets to Carbon Removal- A Fireside Chat with Paul Gambill M.Eg.M.'11, CEO of Nori Jun 07 2022, 5:30pm PDT As our world inches towards climate catastrophe, there has been a lot of discussion about the challenges with carbon offsets and how the carbon removal marketplace works. Does this sound just about right? Learn more and register > Grant Hill: GAME in Conversation with Coach Jon Scheyer Jun 08 2022, 6:00pm EDT You’re invited to a special evening with Grant Hill ’94 and Coach Jon Scheyer ’10, as they discuss Hill’s new book GAME, which provides a great reflection on his life and career and the ups and downs of his remarkable life journey. The conversation will give you a candid insight on his life’s experiences which include great lessons in dealing with adversity and, in perseverance. There is no cost to attend this event, however space is limited, and you must register to reserve your seats. Learn more and register > Connect with Duke Duke Magazine Read feature stories about campus, Duke’s direction and inspiring alumni in the latest issue. Be Social Follow @DukeAlumni on your favorite social networks to stay in-the-know. Join the Blue Crew to become a social media ambassador. Go Forward Read President Vincent E. Price’s messages to the Duke community. line break About DAA Committee for Diversity & Inclusion What We Do Where We Are Staff Working with DAA Board of Directors Bylaws Support the DAA Quick Links Update your address Share news Check email Login to AIMS Transcript Request Group Admin FAQ's > View all FAQ's > Duke Resources Duke University Duke News Duke Calendar Maps Athletics Undergraduate Admissions Duke in Durham Global Duke Contact Karsh Alumni and Visitors Center 2080 Duke University Road Durham, NC 27708 Mail and deliveries: 615 Chapel Drive, Box 90572 Durham, NC 27708 P: (919) 684-5114 F: (919) 684-6022 help@daa.duke.edu Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Expand footer navigation © 2022 Duke Alumni About this Site Privacy Policy Event Refund Policy Contact Us