Skip to main content ncstate-alumni-wolf-web Alumni Association Menu Close About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates NC State Holiday Ornaments facebook twitter linked in email About About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine NC State Magazine Merchandise Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates NC State Holiday Ornaments Deck the Halls Ornaments are handcrafted by The Charleston Mint and will are shipped within 7-10 days of your order. Looking for a gift they’ll cherish every holiday? The Alumni Association offers several holiday ornaments that honor campus landmarks or themes, with more coming each year. All of the zinc ornaments are custom-designed and handmade in Brevard, N.C. ORDER TODAY “Light It Red!” At NC State, that’s what we say when want to celebrate – whether it’s an athletic victory or an academic honor. The Alumni Memorial Belltower at Henry Square is more than just an iconic spot on campus, it’s also where we show our true colors. The Carillon Bell Celebrate the long-awaited addition of the 55-bell carillon in the Alumni Memorial Belltower. Modeled after the largest bell in the tower, this ornament also acknowledges the tower’s memorial to alumni who gave their lives in service to our country. Howl Back Howl Back by staying connected with NC State and fellow graduates. Manage an alumni network, welcome incoming students or help with reunion festivities! The Smokestack Dating back to the mid-1920s, the Smokestack stands at 175 feet — taller than the Bell Tower. It remains a campus landmark, its bricks proclaiming “State College,” hearkening back to the days when it was the moniker for the NC State College of Agriculture and Engineering. The Brickyard The university community’s beloved gathering spot for commemoration, protest and sorrow, the Brickyard celebrated its 50th birthday in 2018. The site is notable for the annual Habitat for Humanity Shack-A-Thon and many celebrations over the years, including the Wolfpack basketball team’s magical 1983 national championship run. Harrelson Hall For more than 50 years, Harrelson Hall flummoxed students with its circular design, spiral ramps and windowless classrooms. Designed and built in the early 1960s, the building’s long reign as NC State’s best-known oddity ended in 2016 with its demolition. Reynolds Coliseum Reynolds Coliseum first opened its doors in 1949, seating 12,400 fans, For years, it was the largest arena in the southeast, with many games and events taking place in the iconic building. Reynolds received a makeover in 2015, losing some seating but gaining space for the NC State Athletic Hall of Fame. Carter-Finley Stadium NC State’s beloved Carter-Finley Stadium was completed in 1966, replacing the aging Riddick facility on campus. Today, the stadium seats nearly 60,000 fans. NFL greats Torry Holt ’99, Philip Rivers ’03 and Russell Wilson ’10 called the stadium home, as did ACC legends Dennis Byrd ’69 and Ted Brown ’79. Raised by Wolves The Raised by Wolves ornament celebrates families making NC State a tradition in their homes. So many families raise their children to not only love the Red and White — watching games together, dressing in Wolfpack apparel and singing the fight song — but follow in their footsteps as NC State graduates. The Memorial Belltower NC State’s most iconic landmark, the Alumni Memorial Belltower was originally built to commemorate Wolfpack alumni who fought and died in World War I. Today, the tower serves as a gathering place for students and an inspirational monument honoring NC State alumni who gave their lives in service of the nation. 1911 Building A Victorian-style building that reigns over the Court of North Carolina like a queen sitting on her throne, the 1911 building was named for the Class of 1911, who endured hazing their freshman year and vowed to stop the practice of harassing new students. Questions? Contact alumni-assoc-online@ncsu.edu. Alumni Association Home Campus Box 7503 NC State University Raleigh NC 27695-7503 919.515.3375 Campus Map About Membership Events Engagement News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.