Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu All News Sub Navigation In This Section News & Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories 268 Results based on your selections. Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center May 25, 2022 Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 Read Article Open details for Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art Alumni & Friends #BrownReunion 2022 May 16, 2022 Reunion Weekend is back! For the first time since 2019, Brown alumni are getting ready to make new memories in the place where it all began. Read Article Open details for #BrownReunion 2022 News from Brown Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future April 30, 2022 Members of the Warren Alpert Medical School community, including graduates from classes ranging from 1972 to 2022, gathered to commemorate the history and look to the future of Rhode Island’s first and only medical school. Read Article Open details for Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President & Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 April 28, 2022 By helping educators access crucial information resources, Hintermeister taps into passions she discovered as a Brown undergrad: sharing knowledge and giving back. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: BULAC President &amp; Librarian Araceli Méndez Hintermeister ’12 Alumni & Friends 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day April 14, 2022 Want to help make this Brunonians Pay It Forward Day our biggest yet? Here’s how you can get involved and spread the word about this giving day. Read Article Open details for 5 ways you can pay it forward this giving day News from Brown New Kessler Scholars Program at Brown will expand support for first-gen, low-income students April 12, 2022 Building on the success of the University’s existing FLiSP program, a new five-year, $1 million grant will create the Kessler Scholars Program, a cohort-based model that bolsters support for first-generation, low-income students. Read Article Open details for New Kessler Scholars Program at Brown will expand support for first-gen, low-income students Alumni & Friends Examining the Evolution of Women at Brown April 11, 2022 A unique online networking opportunity and discussion brought together Brunonians from around the world for an evening of insight and connection. Read Article Open details for Examining the Evolution of Women at Brown Alumni & Friends Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 April 3, 2022 This year’s giving day saw the Brown community help raise more than $2.6 million for the Brown Annual Fund. Read Article Open details for Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 News from Brown Brown admits 2,546 students to the undergraduate Class of 2026 March 31, 2022 The University offered admission on Thursday, March 31, to prospective members of next year’s incoming class, who were selected from Brown’s largest applicant pool to date. Read Article Open details for Brown admits 2,546 students to the undergraduate Class of 2026 Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Film Exec Nina Jacobson ’87, P’23 March 29, 2022 A lifelong commitment to creative storytelling—and a desire for equal representation in the film industry—has shaped the successful Hollywood career of this former semiotics concentrator. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Film Exec Nina Jacobson ’87, P’23 Alumni & Friends Upping our game March 25, 2022 BrownTogether has already helped elevate Brown’s Division of Athletics and Recreation. M. Grace Calhoun ’92, the division’s new vice president, is determined to keep the momentum going. Read Article Open details for Upping our game Alumni & Friends What’s next for BrownTogether? March 25, 2022 We’re now heading toward $4 billion. See where the next phase of BrownTogether will take us. Read Article Open details for What’s next for BrownTogether? Alumni & Friends One campus, a world of possibilities March 25, 2022 With further investments in financial aid, BrownTogether aims to make need-blind admission for international students a reality. Read Article Open details for One campus, a world of possibilities Alumni & Friends Anticipation, joy, relief. Match Day is in the books! March 21, 2022 Members of Brown’s MD Class of 2022 celebrated the start of the next phase of their medical careers as they discovered where they have been matched for residencies. Read Article Open details for Anticipation, joy, relief. Match Day is in the books! Alumni & Friends 10 alumnae bring Brown women’s history to life March 18, 2022 Tap into the rich history of women at Brown through these fascinating excerpts selected from the Pembroke Center’s Oral History Project. Read Article Open details for 10 alumnae bring Brown women’s history to life News from Brown President Biden appoints Dr. Ashish K. Jha to White House role to lead nation’s COVID-19 response March 17, 2022 The dean of Brown’s School of Public Health, a globally recognized expert on pandemic preparedness and response, will take leave for a temporary assignment to serve in the critical federal government role. Read Article Open details for President Biden appoints Dr. Ashish K. Jha to White House role to lead nation’s COVID-19 response News from Brown University to celebrate impact, history of ‘50 Years of Medicine at Brown’ March 15, 2022 A kickoff event on Friday, April 29, will begin a 15-month celebration of the Warren Alpert Medical School’s evolution and its plans for the future. Read Article Open details for University to celebrate impact, history of ‘50 Years of Medicine at Brown’ News from Brown Class of 2009 graduate Zack Langway to lead alumni relations at Brown March 8, 2022 With professional accomplishments in community building and more than a decade of volunteer leadership with Brown, Langway will return to College Hill to lead efforts to cultivate and sustain strong alumni relationships. Read Article Open details for Class of 2009 graduate Zack Langway to lead alumni relations at Brown Alumni & Friends Jennifer Gomez ’08: Founder and Tech Entrepreneur March 4, 2022 In this episode of the Women’s Voices Amplified podcast, Gomez discusses her unintentional path to leadership, being the only woman of color in certain spaces, trusting herself fully, and the importance of community. Read Article Open details for Jennifer Gomez ’08: Founder and Tech Entrepreneur Alumni & Friends $4B: BrownTogether campaign extended March 1, 2022 With its new $4 billion goal, the campaign will continue through 2024—raising funds for research and teaching in medicine, public health, engineering and the arts, as well as student financial aid, career services and Brown Athletics. Read Article Open details for $4B: BrownTogether campaign extended News from Brown Brown is nation’s top Fulbright-producing university, U.S. State Department data shows February 28, 2022 With 29 grants offered to students and recent alumni for the 2021-22 academic year, Brown earned the No. 1 spot as the country’s top producer of Fulbright winners, marking the fourth time the University earned the distinction. Read Article Open details for Brown is nation’s top Fulbright-producing university, U.S. State Department data shows News from Brown Brown launches online-only master’s degree in public health February 23, 2022 An innovative new version of Brown’s MPH program, delivered exclusively online, will expand access to top public health education for learners nationally and around the world. Read Article Open details for Brown launches online-only master’s degree in public health News from Brown $10 million gift from Reed Hastings, Patty Quillin to bolster 58-year-old Brown-Tougaloo Partnership February 21, 2022 The generous gift from Netflix CEO Reed Hastings and producer Patty Quillin will provide much-needed financial support to students from Tougaloo College, an HBCU in Mississippi, including many who come to Brown. Read Article Open details for $10 million gift from Reed Hastings, Patty Quillin to bolster 58-year-old Brown-Tougaloo Partnership Alumni & Friends Caring for women both near and far February 14, 2022 Dr. Methodius Tuuli has been serving as the chair of obstetrics and gynecology at The Warren Alpert Medical School for about a year. He is definitely in the right place at the right time. Read Article Open details for Caring for women both near and far Alumni & Friends 9 Brown love stories that will warm your heart February 11, 2022 Celebrate true love this Valentine’s Day with sweet stories of Brunonians finding their “one and only” on College Hill. Read Article Open details for 9 Brown love stories that will warm your heart Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Marketing Maven Ivon Rodriguez ’00 EMBA’16 February 10, 2022 From broadcast media to museums to fintech, Ivon Rodriguez has carried the “think outside the box” approach from Brown into every industry she touches. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Marketing Maven Ivon Rodriguez ’00 EMBA’16 News from Brown For physics Ph.D. student, exploring the unknown universe and mentoring the next generation February 7, 2022 An active voice for women in physics, Brown graduate student Farrah Simpson will conduct research related to the Large Hadron Collider, the world’s most powerful particle accelerator, as a 2022 Graduate Scholar at Fermilab. Read Article Open details for For physics Ph.D. student, exploring the unknown universe and mentoring the next generation Alumni & Friends WATCH | Empowering Change: An Evening of Conversation & Learning with Professors Bogues, Rose & Provost Locke February 7, 2022 At this special event, leading Brown scholars illuminated their work and fielded questions from the alumni community about the persistence of racial inequality and the legacies of slavery. Read Article Open details for WATCH | Empowering Change: An Evening of Conversation &amp; Learning with Professors Bogues, Rose &amp; Provost Locke News from Brown Faculty at Brown earn prestigious awards, distinctions January 27, 2022 From late 2020 to early 2022, many of Brown’s faculty received prominent awards, fellowships and other recognition for their path-breaking scholarship and bold ideas. Read Article Open details for Faculty at Brown earn prestigious awards, distinctions News from Brown To research addiction, Brown senior Eve Glenn is combining empathy with cutting-edge brain science January 25, 2022 After witnessing challenges faced by childhood friends, Glenn is researching the neurobiological underpinnings of alcohol and substance abuse disorders with the goal of enabling more effective treatments. Read Article Open details for To research addiction, Brown senior Eve Glenn is combining empathy with cutting-edge brain science Alumni & Friends The best medicine? Paying it forward January 13, 2022 Through their volunteer work, Brown medical alumni are giving back to where it all began and supporting the next generation of Brown physicians. Read Article Open details for The best medicine? Paying it forward Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Volunteer & Advocate Max Clermont ’11 MPH’12 January 13, 2022 Drawn to public service efforts, Clermont also continues to serve his alma mater as a champion and advocate for Brown’s volunteer efforts. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Volunteer &amp; Advocate Max Clermont ’11 MPH’12 News from Brown Accomplished biomedical engineer, academic leader named Brown School of Engineering dean January 12, 2022 Tejal Desai, a professor and researcher who has led academic programs at the University of California San Francisco, Boston University and elsewhere, will work to expand collaborative engineering research and teaching. Read Article Open details for Accomplished biomedical engineer, academic leader named Brown School of Engineering dean News from Brown The year in stories — 2021 December 16, 2021 At Brown, calendar year 2021 was brimming with breakthroughs, reflections, an unshakeable sense of community and the determination necessary to move forward — here are 21 stories that offer a glimpse at that activity. Read Article Open details for The year in stories — 2021 News from Brown From most diverse applicant pool to date, Brown admits 896 early decision students December 16, 2021 Selected from a pool of 6,146 applicants, the Class of 2026’s first members reflect the University’s ongoing commitment to making a Brown education more accessible to students from every socioeconomic background. Read Article Open details for From most diverse applicant pool to date, Brown admits 896 early decision students Alumni & Friends 6 Takeaways from Women in Washington: Leading in Times of Crisis December 15, 2021 On December 9, 2021, the Brown Women’s Network welcomed two senior leaders in the Biden administration to discuss the evolving role of women in Washington and what it means to lead in times of uncertainty. Read Article Open details for 6 Takeaways from Women in Washington: Leading in Times of Crisis Alumni & Friends 10 Brunonians who embody BrownTogether December 10, 2021 From researchers to recent grads, discover the people who illustrate the heart of Brown’s most ambitious campaign. Read Article Open details for 10 Brunonians who embody BrownTogether Alumni & Friends This is what $3 billion looks like December 9, 2021 How did BrownTogether reach $3 billion? What does it mean for Brown? We’ll let the numbers tell the story. Read Article Open details for This is what $3 billion looks like Alumni & Friends $25 million gift to Brown to accelerate discovery at renamed Legorreta Cancer Center December 9, 2021 Generous support from the Legorreta family will propel plans for a world-class, nationally designated cancer center at Brown that will turn basic science into treatments for patients in Rhode Island and beyond. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift to Brown to accelerate discovery at renamed Legorreta Cancer Center Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Disability Policy Expert Taryn Williams ’02 December 6, 2021 A recent White House nominee in the Department of Labor, Williams has dedicated her career to workplace equity. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Disability Policy Expert Taryn Williams ’02 News from Brown Scholars, leaders reflect on Brown’s transformative Slavery and Justice Report November 12, 2021 University leaders, faculty, alumni and students gathered on Friday, Nov. 12, to celebrate a new second edition of the report, discuss the original report’s legacy and debate what work remains at Brown and beyond. Read Article Open details for Scholars, leaders reflect on Brown’s transformative Slavery and Justice Report News from Brown Fifteen years after its publication, Brown’s watershed Slavery and Justice Report is reinvigorated November 12, 2021 A second edition of Brown’s landmark report, which sparked a national conversation on higher education’s entanglements with racial slavery, offers new insights on the document’s persistent and evolving impact. Read Article Open details for Fifteen years after its publication, Brown’s watershed Slavery and Justice Report is reinvigorated Alumni & Friends Improving mental health through computational neuroscience November 8, 2021 The Carney Institute’s new BRAINSTORM program is bridging the gap between basic brain science research and clinical applications for mental well-being. Read Article Open details for Improving mental health through computational neuroscience Alumni & Friends Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign November 2, 2021 Having reached its target more than a year ahead of schedule, the University will continue raising funds for student scholarships and faculty research, while establishing new goals in the months to come. Read Article Open details for Brown surpasses $3 billion BrownTogether fundraising goal early, will extend campaign News from Brown Brown to significantly expand financial aid and college access October 25, 2021 Buoyed by endowment performance and strength in fundraising, the University will invest in three initiatives supporting undergraduates and Providence students. Read Article Open details for Brown to significantly expand financial aid and college access News from Brown Sternlicht Commons and Brown University Health & Wellness Center dedicated in weekend events October 23, 2021 University leaders and community members gathered for a series of events, tours and receptions that celebrated an innovative new space committed to helping students thrive. Read Article Open details for Sternlicht Commons and Brown University Health &amp; Wellness Center dedicated in weekend events News from Brown Physician-scientist Dr. Mukesh K. Jain appointed dean of medicine and biological sciences at Brown October 20, 2021 A cardiovascular specialist and health care leader at University Hospitals and Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Dr. Jain will lead biomedical research and education, and serve as Warren Alpert Medical School dean. Read Article Open details for Physician-scientist Dr. Mukesh K. Jain appointed dean of medicine and biological sciences at Brown Alumni & Friends A lifetime commitment to Brown and to medicine October 18, 2021 Dean and alumna Julianne Ip ’75 MD’78 RES’81 P’18 is leaving an institutional legacy and an imprint on thousands of students’ lives. Read Article Open details for A lifetime commitment to Brown and to medicine Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page