Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month Pride Month UC Alumni Association » Get Involved » College Networks » CCM Alumni Set Navigation title in component Update Your Info College Networks CCM Alumni A&S Alumni Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni MHA Alumni Network CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups African American Alumni Affiliate 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids College-Conservatory of Music Alumni Welcome, CCM Alumni Your CCM Alumni Network provides you with ways to reconnect with the college, faculty, and fellow grads, as well as the University of Cincinnati Alumni Association. As a part of the creative, artistically driven and internationally renowned CCM alumni base, you're an inspiring force making waves all over the world - and with over 13,000 alumni globally, we want to stay connected! Attending an alumni event, sharing your story, or connecting with current CCM students are just a few of the ways you can be involved. Get Involved Interested in volunteering? Fill out our form. Get the latest college & alumni news. Catch up with your CCM classmates on our Class Notes page. Update your info. Give to CCM. CCM Alumni Events VIEW EVENTS CCM Alumni News Cincinnati Magazine: CCM alums give their regards to Broadway April 20, 2022 CCM Musical Theatre alumni Sharon Wheatley, Nikki Renee Daniels (BFA ‘01), Alysha Deslorieux (BFA ‘12), Betsy Wolfe (BFA ‘04), Max Clayton (BFA ‘14), Scott Coutler (BFA ‘93), Gary Cooper (BFA ‘17), and Aria Braswell (BFA ‘19) spoke with Cincinnati Magazine about their success on Broadway and lessons carried with them from longtime musical theater chair, Aubrey Berg. CCM shares 2022 alumni and distinguished service awards April 18, 2022 UC's College-Conservatory of Music is proud to present alumni and distinguished service awards to outstanding members of our community at the end of each academic year. The 2022 awards are presented to five accomplished alumni and one dedicated patron in a private virtual event as well as during the college's Graduation Convocation Ceremony. Details on CCM's 2022 Graduation Convocation Ceremony, which is scheduled for Friday, April 29, are available online. CCM alumnus recognized by GRAMMY Museum and Chorus America Awards April 11, 2022 The Recording Academy and GRAMMY Museum recently announced their semifinalists for the 2022 Music Educator Award, one of whom is CCM alumnus Brandon Elliot (MM Choral Conducting, ‘14). Elliot was also awarded the Chorus America Louis Botto Award for Innovative Action and Entrepreneurial Zeal. Elliot is a tenure-track professor and the director of choral and vocal activities at southern California’s Moorpark College. Debug Query for this Stay Connected to CCM STAY UP-TO-DATE WITH THE VILLAGE NEWS From student and faculty spotlights, to department updates, the CCM Village News Blog is your one-stop for all things CCM. SUPPORT THE STARS OF TOMORROW CCMpower is an expansive group of alumni and friends. Start your free membership today and assure CCM retains its distinction as a top-ranked institution for the performing and media arts. VISIT CCM VILLAGE FOR A PERFORMANCE Visit CCM Village for one of the hundreds of shows that happen each year. Find CCM on Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram Ellen Stedtefeld Program Director of Alumni & Donor Experience, College-Conservatory of Music and College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning 513-558-4428 stedteea@foundation.uc.edu University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top