Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Brown Annual Fund Class of the Year Award For the class that most embodied the spirit of philanthropy at Brown over the last year through their dedicated outreach and support of the Brown Annual Fund. Breadcrumb Home Volunteer Volunteer Recognition Sub Navigation In This Section Alumni Service Award Association of Class Leaders Class of the Year Award Brown Annual Fund Class Participation Award Brown Annual Fund Class of the Year Award Brown Annual Fund Co-Chairs' Award Brown Annual Fund Young Alumni Award Brown Bear Award Brown Medical Alumni Association Awards H. Anthony Ittleson ’60 Award John Hope Award Joseph M. Fernandez ’85 Award Nan Tracy ’46 Award The William Rogers Award Young Alumni Service Award Recipients 2019 Recipients Class of 1984 The Class of 1984’s commitment to Brown and to the Annual Fund was fully demonstrated during their 35th Reunion. Together, the Reunion Gift and Activities Committees jointly contacted each member of the class to promote the Reunion Class Gift and Reunion Weekend attendance. The Class of 1984 showed their enthusiasm on both Giving Tuesday and Brunonians Pay it Forward Day and achieved the highest number of donors by a class on both days – for the second year in a row! They now hold the record for donors to the Brown Annual Fund in a single day with 217 donors. Class of 1999 The Class of 1999 had an exceptional 20th Reunion Class Gift campaign. They raised over $1 million, surpassing their goal of $750,000 by more than a third. They also more than doubled what they had previously raised for the Brown Annual Fund in a single year, and hit a personal best for class participation with 32.8%. They were a very engaged group that showed enthusiasm for tremendously raising the bar for their own class’s support of the Brown Annual Fund. 2018 Recipients Class of 1993 The Class of 1993 showed outstanding collaboration among the 25th Reunion gift, participation, and activities committees. As a result, not only did 1993 have strong 25th Reunion attendance, but they exceeded their $2 million goal for the Reunion Class Gift to the Brown Annual Fund. In addition, they surpassed their ambitious participation goal, which was more than 10% higher than they had ever achieved before. Class of 1963 The Class of 1963 set new Brown Annual Fund records for a 55th Reunion in both participation and dollars raised for the Reunion Class Gift. The class also tied the record for the number of Leaders in the Carrie Tower Society for a 55th Reunion. This was their second record-setting reunion year in a row, having previously set the 50th Reunion participation record, which they still hold. Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown Annual Fund Class of the Year Award Open details for Brown Annual Fund Class of the Year Award Bookmark this Page