Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Alumni Association Toggle navigation Site Menu Membership Join Today Renew Your Membership Membership Overview Why Become a Member? Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks Alumni Directory My oneFSU Dashboard Students Student Alumni Association Join SAA SAA Membership Perks My oneFSU Dashboard Honors Alumni Ambassadors Award Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Legacy Scholarship Grads Made Good The Inspire Award Community Alumni Networks Alumni Career Services Events Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Alumni Travel Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Webinar Resources Virtual Alumni Resources Support Join, Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Give to the Legacy Scholarship Give to the FSU Alumni Association Give to the FSU Alumni Association Endowment Give to FSU Academic Programs Purchase a Westcott Plaza Brick Support the Alumni Ambassadors Fund About About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Annual Highlights Alumni Center & Events Employment Frequently Asked Questions Financial Information Map and Directions Sponsorship Opportunities FSU Alumni Center Sponsorship Opportunities FSU Alumni Association Sponsorship Opportunities The FSU Alumni Association’s programs and services play key roles in our commitment to connect and engage our more than 388,000+ alumni around the world. FSU alumni are proud of their alma mater and represent a responsive target market for your product or service. We offer several advertising and sponsorship opportunities that will help your organization expand its reach, increase its sales, and engage our audiences. Click here to view all of our sponsorship opportunities. Advertise in VIRES® Magazine Click Here to View the VIRES® Media Kit To reserve your space or learn more, email vires@alumni.fsu.edu. Sponsor Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Sponsor a Webinar To sponsor a webinar or learn more, email Whitney Powers: wpowers@admin.fsu.edu. Sponsor an Event Student Alumni Association Sponsorship Young Alumni Network Sponsorship This fall we are excited to announce that the Young Alumni Network will be hosting a virtual webinar series for our young alumni. The series will launch in October with the Alumni Association’s annual Young Alumni Awards. It will continue through the end of 2020. Content will range from game nights to networking events to financial planning webinars and will provide you a great opportunity to engage with 40% of our alumni base who are under the age of 35. Attendees will register ahead of time for each virtual event. Each event will be promoted using the Young Alumni Network’s Instagram account, all social media platforms for the FSU Alumni Association and eblasts sent to all of our members under the age of 35. This series will allow the Young Alumni Council to guide and engage our young alumni who are early in their careers and looking to connect with their alma mater. The monthly sponsorship investment is $2,500 and includes the following benefits: Marketed as presenting sponsor Recognized as presenting sponsor in email blast to all Alumni Association members under the age of 35. Opportunity to address attendees and promote organization for two minutes prior to webinar Recognition (logo and contact information) at the beginning and end of sponsored webinar(s) (live and on-demand versions) Customized Zoom background with sponsor logo for use throughout the duration of the webinar Logo featured on webinar landing page, registration page, registration confirmation page and webinar reminder email Recognition in social media post advertising webinar, tagging sponsor when possible Opportunity to include logo on the Young Alumni Networks promotional posts on Instagram Opportunity to redirect to company website when webinar concludes Opportunity to include messaging in post webinar email blast Take advantage of the quarterly sponsorship opportunity and receive a 5% discount (Investment total: $9,500). To sponsor a Young Alumni Network webinar or learn more, contact Lindsey Alligood, Alumni Networks Coordinator, at lalligood@fsu.edu. Seminole Clubs & Chapters Sponsorship Corporate Partners Click any of the links below to learn more about our corporate partners: Bank of America FSU Bookstore & Seminole Sportshop FSU Tag Liberty Mutual Mercer Meyer and Associates Interested in becoming a corporate partner? Email Marcus Nicolas, Director of Operations and Administraton, at mbnicolas@fsu.edu. OFFICIAL PARTNERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Their generous support allows the FSU Alumni Association to provide programs, services and events to you. MEMBERS Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Member Perks Reward Zone Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks STUDENTS Student Alumni Association Join SAA Benefits of SAA Membership Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks HONORS Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award COMMUNITY Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Events Football HQ Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Travel Programs ABOUT US About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Sponsorship Opportunities ALUMNI CENTER Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions FSU Alumni Association 1030 W. Tennessee St. Tallahassee, FL 32304 Email Us (850) 644-2761 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright Close