Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Cornell Forbes 30 Under 30 Cornell clubs Class connections Young Alumni Programs Diversity Alumni Programs and Cornell Mosaic Alumni career support Networking Connect with students Downloads Connect Online and in person, stay informed and entertained. Start streaming “Around the Capitol for 150” Cornellians gather in DC for the Cornell Sesquicentennial Tour Photo: Diane Bondareff Reunion, June 9-12 Reunion registration is open! Browse events now and create a custom itinerary to make the most of your weekend on the Hill. Can't make it in person? Tune in for Virtual Reunion livestream events! Register Jason Koski Featured events Public speaking confidence Wednesday, June 1: Join public speaking expert Maria Wolfe for a conversation on how to avoid common preparation mistakes and boost your confidence, empowering you to present with more comfort and poise. ABCs of NFTs Thursday, June 2: Join us for a crash course in digital assets, what makes them different, and their practical applications, with experts Susan Joseph '81 and Ted Russell '91. Cornell Tech Fest Thursday, June 16: Join academics, inventors, investors, policy experts, and artists for a wide array of in-person conversations about how tech is changing itself, New York, and the world. Browse more alumni events Cornell videos on-demand Cornell alumni live streams Log in with your Cornell NetID and password to access alumni programs. CornellCast People, projects, and research happening at Cornell. eCornell Keynotes Be informed. Be inspired. Experience the best of Cornell, live and on-demand. Log in with your NetID to start streaming Featured podcasts Fresh from the Hill This podcast offers an inside look into the lives of recent graduates. Learn who these noteworthy Cornellians are and the role Cornell played in their professional and personal lives. Inclusive Excellence Unpack topics related to diversity and inclusion in the workplace. Learn action steps you can implement immediately and hear from campus colleagues about how they are creating cultures of belonging. “I” Statements Communicating across difference. Cornell University’s Intergroup Dialogue Project presents “I” Statements, a podcast where complexity, vulnerability, and curiosity collide. Get more digital downloads Groups and events near you Groups Events Cornell Club of the Berkshires Cornell Club of Utah Central Carolina Cornell Club (Raleigh, Durham, Chapel Hill) Coastal Connecticut Cornell Club Cornell Alumni Association of Central Indiana Cornell Alumni Association of Atlanta Cornell Alumni Association of Central NY Cornell Alumni Association of Central Ohio CC of Cape Cod 2022 Annual Meeting June 1 @ 6:30 pmCape Cod, MA The ABCs of NFTs June 2 @ 11:30 amIthaca CAA Northern California – Cornellian Happy Hour June 2 @ 3:30 pm Class of 1978 Knickerbocker Rooftop Reception June 3 @ 5:30 pmNew York, NY Cornell Club of Boston – Cranberry Bog Tour June 4 @ 10:00 amBoston, MA Class of 1978 Baseball Benefit Bash June 4 @ 12:30 pmNew York, NY Support Cornell students Cornell’s highest priority is to ensure that all students can complete their educations. Annual Fund gifts remain a critical resource during this time. Direct your support to any area of the university that is important to you. Cornell Annual Funds Support campus and students Support colleges and schools Support diversity, inclusion, and equity Making a difference $5M endowment gift supports student access May 26, 2022 $10M gift to A&S boosts College Scholar Program, scholarships May 2, 2022 Major gift endows Cornell Mui Ho Center for Cities in AAP April 19, 2022 Connect with Cornell alumni on social media Follow @CornellAlumni on Instagram and Twitter, and like the Cornell Alumni Association on Facebook to keep up with Cornell. Plus, you can join more than 60,000 alumni in the Cornell University Alumni Network group on LinkedIn. More alumni stories Alumni news Plant lover and Earth advocate April 21, 2022 Learning S is for scarce April 19, 2022 Alumni news Recent grads on a mission to support Ukraine March 23, 2022 Stay connected to Cornell We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. Update your information Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022