Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Learn Online Jump to… Virtual YAA Videos and Podcasts Yale Alumni Academy Courses Online Courses Certificate Programs Lectures & Talks Library Resources & Journals Yale E-News Learning takes all forms, which is why Yale has put a wealth of lifelong learning opportunities at your fingertips. Get started with some of the offerings below and see where your curiosity takes you. Virtual YAA Learn, discover, and engage with online offerings from YAA interest groups, regional clubs, and Yale College classes with Virtual YAA. Browse upcoming online events for online panels, digital happy hours, and more ways stay connected to the Yale community. If you can't tune in live, you can still watch event recordings as they become available with YAA Webinars On-Demand. Back to Top Videos and Podcasts You don't have to be on campus to learn through Yale. In this page, we've compiled videos, podcasts, and other learning resources from across the university, from Yale affiliates to the graduate and professional schools – making it easier than ever for you to learn for a lifetime. Back to Top Yale Alumni Academy Courses Yale Alumni Academy, a new initiative of the Yale Alumni Association, offers lifelong learning and travel programs rooted in Yale’s tradition of intellectual community and friendship. During this time of social distancing, we invite you to travel and learn from the comfort of your own home with live, in-depth courses and free online seminars featuring Yale’s leading faculty, research, and scholarship. Back to Top Online Courses Some of Yale’s most sought-after courses are available for free through Coursera, the online platform that connects you back to the university. Coursera’s self-guided classes are taught by top Yale professors, and include recorded video lectures, auto-graded and peer-reviewed assignments, and community discussion forums. Yale Alumni are eligible to earn free sharable electronic course certificate. A research university that focuses on students and encourages learning as an essential way of life, Yale is a place for connection, creativity, and innovation among cultures and across disciplines. You can find them on Coursera. Back to Top Certificate Programs Climate Change and Health Yale School of Public Health Financing and Deploying Clean Energy Yale School of the Environment and Yale School of Management Tropical Forest Landscapes Yale School of the Environment Back to Top Lectures & Talks A host of great lectures and other lifelong learning opportunities are available through Yale offerings, including: YouTube: To view all videos posted by Yale, including many featuring talks and lectures by professors, visit the Yale YouTube channel. Open Yale Courses: Open Yale Courses provides free and open access to a selection of introductory courses taught by distinguished scholars. The aim of the project is to expand access to educational materials for all who wish to learn. Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning: The Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning at Yale explores online learning for a wide and global audience: from lifelong learners seeking to improve knowledge skills, to students looking to supplement their current classes, to those who wish to take a class online for college credit, a certificate, or a degree. Back to Top Library Resources & Journals As a Yale affiliate, you have access to millions of academic journals, books, and primary sources, all for free, through JSTOR and HeinOnline. Founded in 1995, JSTOR is a digital library of academic content in many formats and disciplines. The collections include peer-reviewed scholarly journals as well as respected literary journals, academic monographs, research reports from trusted institutes, and primary sources. HeinOnline is a premier online database for legal history and government documents, bridging the gap in historical research by providing comprehensive coverage of more than 2,500 law-related periodicals. In addition, it contains the entire Congressional Record, Federal Register, and Code of Federal Regulations, complete coverage of the U.S. Reports back to 1754, and much more. Back to Top Yale E-News Through its many departments, affiliates, and schools, Yale offers a wide variety of electronic newsletters and e-communications to keep you up to date on all you want to know about the university and beyond, including YaleToday. Manage your e-news at the Yale subscriptions page (login required). Back to Top Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page