Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Date April 3, 2022 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 This year’s giving day saw the Brown community help raise more than $2.6 million for the Brown Annual Fund. On April 28, more than 1,700 donors joined us for Brunonians Pay It Forward Day. Together, they raised $2.6 million for the Brown Annual Fund—setting a Brunonians Pay It Forward Day record. How Brunonia paid it forward See what areas they supported, preliminary results, and leaderboards for Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022. GIVING DAY RESULTS What to Support on Brunonians Pay It Forward Day From fostering a diverse and inclusive campus to saving the environment to improving health and wellness for all, Brown is tirelessly working to make the world a better place. With the Brown Annual Fund and its family of funds, there are a myriad of ways you can support Brown’s work in these areas of immense need. This Brunonians Pay It Forward Day, make a gift to one (or more) of the areas of support most meaningful to you. Find Your Cause The Brown Fund From academics to campus-wide programs to financial aid, The Brown Fund supports the University where it's most needed. Visit Page Open details for The Brown Fund School of Engineering Annual Fund With the help of its annual fund, the School of Engineering continues to be a leader in education and drive advancements in research and learning. Visit Page Open details for School of Engineering Annual Fund Public Health Annual Fund With Annual Fund support, we're helping to advance the School of Public Health's high impact work in improving human health for all. Visit Page Open details for Public Health Annual Fund Brown Medical Annual Fund Through Annual Fund support, we're educating the next generation of physician leaders at The Warren Alpert Medical School. Visit Page Open details for Brown Medical Annual Fund Campus Sustainability Fund Reducing our carbon footprint and making Brown a net-zero energy campus. Visit Page Open details for Campus Sustainability Fund Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund Creating an inclusive, diverse, and vibrant academic community at Brown. Visit Page Open details for Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund Athletics Annual Fund How to make an immediate impact for Brown’s student-athletes. Visit Page Open details for Athletics Annual Fund BrownConnect Fund Ensuring all students have access to summer internships and research experiences. Visit Page Open details for BrownConnect Fund IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Driven by the alumni community, the Inman Page Black Alumni Council (IPC) Brown Annual Fund Scholarship is helping support Black students at Brown. Visit Page Open details for IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Calling all social (media) butterflies! Help spread the word about this special giving day. Check out our tips and tricks for posting to your social accounts, browse our downloadable graphics, and learn how you can enter to win some great prizes. spread the word What is Brunonians Pay It Forward Day? Brunonians Pay It Forward Day is one of Brown’s biggest giving days. This year, the Brown community celebrates this day with a 24-hour fundraising drive on April 28, 2022. Gifts to the Brown Annual made on Brunonians Pay It Forward Day support the University where it’s most needed, providing funds for financial aid, experiential learning, diversity and inclusion initiatives, athletics, and more. Tags Brown Annual Fund Featured Giving Related News Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center May 25, 2022 Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 Read Article Open details for Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 Open details for Brunonians Pay It Forward Day 2022 Bookmark this Page