Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Cornell Alumni Travel Lifelong learning Cornell Alumni Travel NEW in 2022: Look for “CAU” (Cornell’s Adult University) to learn about select tours that feature Cornell faculty. View the travel and safety policy United Arab Emirates March 7 - 16, 2023 Golden desert dunes + sparkling gulf waters & so much to learn! In partnership with AHI. Learn More/Register Online Browse by region If you’re looking for meaningful experiences in destinations around the globe, please consider our small group tours specifically curated for Cornell alumni, family, and friends. Whether journeying inward, or to the most remote destination of our dreams, as the Palau Pledge encourages, let us “tread lightly, act kindly, and explore mindfully.” NEW in 2022: Look for “CAU” (Cornell’s Adult University) to learn about select tours that feature Cornell faculty. Asia and the Pacific Europe Africa and the Middle East Central and South America North America Multi-country Tours Our friendly, inclusive, experience-based tours are led by expert tour directors, feature local guides, and are frequently accompanied by a Cornell staff member. We know you want to take well-orchestrated adventures so that you can focus on what matters: taking those adventures together. 2022-2023 Tours Plan your next trip with Cornell alumni. We're headed all over the world. Browse by date Travel and safety policy We're so excited to travel with you! Make sure you read the travel and safety policy for important information about all Cornell Alumni Travel opportunities. View the policy Meet our travel partners We partner with award-winning travel operators to share an exciting variety of culturally immersive opportunities—from cruises to land journeys, from active adventures to relaxing vacations. In your own words, our operators are “experienced,” “trusted experts,” “so friendly,” and “professional, helpful, and exceptionally service-oriented.” Meet our partners Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022