Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Yale Day of Service Jump to… 2022 Yale Day of Service About Yale Day of Service Volunteer Day of Service Resources Day of Service Leaders Service News 2022 Yale Day of Service The 2022 Yale Day of Service was officially celebrated on May 7, but service projects continue throughout the year. Please visit the Find a Project page page to find an event in your area or online today! *** The Yale Day of Service shop at Campus Customs is now open! Get your custom 2022 T-shirts designed by Doonesbury cartoonist and Day of Service Honorary Chair Garry Trudeau '70, '73 MFA. About Yale Day of Service Yale Day of Service is the university’s annual celebration of service, with Yalies banding together each year to give back to their local communities. In all, alumni communities host close to 300 service projects each year. We estimate that at least 3,500 service initiatives have taken place in the program’s history, dating back to its inception in 2009. What began more than a decade ago as a single day has now grown into an ongoing call to action for service activities that span the globe, in sectors from environmental clean-ups to educational webinars, legal clinics to house painting. Now more than ever, every day can be a Yale Day of service. How will YOU make a difference this year? Back to Top Back to Top Volunteer Becoming a member of the Yale alumni service community can be as easy as showing up to plant trees or read to children. There are also opportunities to take on more responsibility such as organizing a group of Yalies to take a shift at a local shelter or food pantry or working with an organization throughout the year to help fill its volunteering needs. Info Accordions Get Involved How much time you have, where you live or work, and what types of volunteerism interests you are some of the most common ways Yalies become involved in their communities. Participate Yalies wanting to give back for a few hours on a given day or even on multiple occasions can find a project and register through the YAA’s event calendar. Organize If you already have a relationship with a community or an organization that you’d like to recruit other volunteers for, you can talk with the Yale Day of Service regional director for your area or another Yale volunteer leader about starting a new project. Then, find the instructions for submitting a project and submit the details via the YAA’s event calendar. In Person and Virtual Before 2020, Day of Service projects existed almost entirely as in-person events that brought Yalies in close geographic proximity even closer together. Now, the possibilities for service programs are endless. Examples of virtual service projects: Card/letter writing to vulnerable communities (e.g., Love for our Elders) Service members and veterans Elderly/isolated communities Hospitalized children Individuals with physical and emotional disabilities Expertise sharing via video chat or webinar (e.g., Skype, Zoom, Facebook live, FaceTime) Story or music time for children via recorded video or live platforms (e.g. Storytime Reader) Document preparation for historical, legal, medical, financial needs (e.g. Smithsonian digital volunteers) Visual storytelling similar to the TED talk format (e.g. Voices of Hope) While in-person gatherings remain an option when public health guidelines allow, a great deal of goodwill and needed services can be delivered remotely in these changing times. One-time or Ongoing Programs Volunteering with your fellow Yalies as part of “Day of Service” can be an enriching, meaningful, and fun experience. We encourage as many alums and their families and friends to participate as possible. Additionally, many community organizations have ongoing volunteer needs, and some Yalies find they would like to establish a more consistent relationship with their community (virtual or physical). Some regional clubs engage in a monthly volunteer activity, while others put a call out for volunteers on an as-needed basis. No matter the level of commitment you take on, we hope for your Yale service experience to be meaningful, productive, and fun for you and the communities you’re working with. Find additional details about getting involved below. Back to Top Day of Service Resources Participate Organizers Toolkit FAQs Back to Top Back to Top Day of Service Leaders Yale Day of Service welcomed new alumni co-chairs Karen Green ’78 and Rob Greenly ’83 MBA to serve two-year terms through Fall 2023. Yale Alumni Live host Stefanie Stevens interviewed the co-chairs to discuss their goals and strategies in their new roles during the first-ever Celebrate Service Week. Back to Top Yale Day of Service Distinguished Alumni, Honorary Chairs Yale Day of Service enjoys support from the entire alumni community, including those with platforms that reach global audiences. We recognize the 2022 honorary chairs – award-winning actress Angela Bassett and famed Doonesbury cartoonist Garry Trudeau – for their longstanding commitment to Yale and to their communities. Read More about Yale Day of Service Distinguished Alumni, Honorary Chairs Back to Top Service News YAA Service: Videos on Demand Spotlight on Service Series Service Stories Back to Top Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page