Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Date March 21, 2022 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Anticipation, joy, relief. Match Day is in the books! Members of Brown’s MD Class of 2022 celebrated the start of the next phase of their medical careers as they discovered where they have been matched for residencies. For medical students at The Warren Alpert Medical School, their red Match Day envelope is more than just a red envelope. That envelope and its contents symbolize the start of their career in medicine and their future in improving the lives and health of their communities. As they finally opened their long-sought-after Match Day envelopes on March 18, Brown’s MD Class of 2022 embarked on the next chapter of their journeys. Thus far, that journey has been anything but ordinary. The field of medicine may have changed immensely since the day they first donned their white coats, but their dedication and determination have not. With medical degrees forged amidst a global pandemic, these students persevered and overcame various obstacles under ever-changing conditions throughout their time at the Medical School. What is it like to experience this emotional rite of passage? One alumna and a current fourth-year student share their insights. In addition to happiness, the main emotion I feel is gratitude. I am so grateful to be in the position I am in and feel blessed to have had the opportunities I have been given at Brown. I have come into my own at The Warren Alpert Medical School and understand what my life's purpose will be as a physician – to care for patients compassionately, achieve clinical excellence and advocate for health equity. Adeiyewunmi (Ade) Osinubi ’18 MD’22 “ I was thrilled with my Match in internal medicine and so happy for my classmates, and knew my education at Brown had prepared us well for the intense residency years ahead. I hope today's students take with them confidence in their education and abilities, as well as the commitment that got them to this moment — to lifelong learning, and compassionate and equitable patient-centered care. That will be the true north of their careers. ” Kavita V. Ernst ’96 MD’00 Match Day map Want to know where the members of the Class of MD’22 matched for residency? Check out the list and celebrate their success! Missed Match Day? No problem. Feel the collective relief. Watch the recording of the March 18 celebration. MATCH DAY WEBCAST What is Match Day? Match Day is a medical school tradition celebrated across the country. On the third Friday of March, graduating medical students learn where they have matched for their residencies. It is a major milestone for medical students, as they discover where they’ll spend the next years training to become surgeons, neurologists, pediatricians, psychiatrists, or physicians in any number of specialties. Join the Match Day Challenge ends March 31, 2022 In honor of this momentous day, all gifts made to the Brown Medical Annual Fund during the month of March will be matched dollar-for-dollar — up to $200,000. With donor support, the Medical Annual Fund provides students with the resources and experiences — in the classroom and beyond — that form the foundation for the humanistic and compassionate physicians they will become. MAKE A GIFT Tags Alumni Biology/Medicine Featured Giving Related News Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center May 25, 2022 Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 Read Article Open details for Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Anticipation, joy, relief. Match Day is in the books! Open details for Anticipation, joy, relief. Match Day is in the books! Bookmark this Page