Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Chief Marshal Serving as chief marshal of alumni during Commencement is a special honor. As a longstanding Harvard tradition that dates back to 1899, this role is elected each year from the ranks of the 25th Reunion Class. Meet the 2022 Chief Marshal Candidates Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Chief Marshal Candidates Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers The chief marshal represents all University alumni at Commencement. In a traditional year, they greet classes as they process into Harvard Yard, designate “marshal’s aids” to help with Commencement duties as part of the Harvard Alumni Association’s Happy Committee, and preside over the Chief Marshal’s Spread, one of the most anticipated culinary events of the festivities. Each August, class officers from the 25th Reunion are contacted and asked to select a class nominating committee. The committee invites suggestions from the Class and screens candidates based on one’s career success, vocations, and avocations; contributions to their community and the larger society; and service to the College. Read about the 2022 candidates Past Chief Marshals March 10, 2021 Anurima Bhargava AB '96 elected chief marshal Lawyer who has fought for civil rights of underserved and marginalized will represent the alumni community at Harvard’s 370th Commencement. February 13, 2020 Koma Gandy Fischbein ’95 elected chief marshal The Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) has announced that decorated U.S. Navy veteran and rugby pioneer Koma Gandy Fischbein ’95 will serve as chief marshal at Harvard’s 369th Commencement on May 28. March 7, 2019 Tracy K. Smith elected chief marshal U.S. poet laureate Tracy K. Smith ’94 will serve as chief marshal of the alumni at Harvard’s 368th Commencement on May 30. March 15, 2018 Gina M. Raimondo ’93 elected chief marshal Rhode Island Gov. Gina M. Raimondo ’93 has been elected by her classmates to serve as chief marshal of the alumni at Harvard’s 367th Commencement Exercises on May 24. April 10, 2017 Maura Healey named 2017 chief marshal Maura Healey ’92, attorney general for the commonwealth of Massachusetts, has been elected by her Harvard and Radcliffe College classmates to serve as chief marshal at Harvard’s 366th Commencement ceremony on May 25. April 20, 2016 Sandberg named chief marshal Facebook COO to lead 25th reunion class at Commencement April 22, 2015 This year’s chief marshal Writer Farai Chideya ’90 will lead her class for its 25th reunion at Commencement April 15, 2014 Richard Barth ’89 named Commencement’s chief marshal The Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) announced that Richard Barth ’89, chief executive officer of the KIPP (Knowledge Is Power Program) Foundation, has been chosen to serve as Harvard University’s chief marshal at this year’s Commencement ceremonies. March 26, 2013 Astronaut named chief marshal The Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) announced that Stephanie D. Wilson ’88, a NASA astronaut and engineer who flew three missions aboard the space shuttle Discovery, has been chosen by her classmates to serve as Harvard’s chief marshal for Commencement 2013. April 17, 2012 Raphael Bostic named chief marshal The Harvard Alumni Association (HAA) announced that Raphael W. Bostic ’87 has been chosen by his classmates to serve as chief marshal for Commencement 2012 as the University concludes its yearlong 375th anniversary celebration. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College