Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Get Involved You are here: Home1 / Get Involved Get Involved The Clemson Alumni Association exists to keep you connected to your alma mater and we have various opportunities to strengthen that connection. Join a club in your local area or be a part of a special interest group that represents a passion of yours. Or find your place with the many volunteer opportunities across campus. If you are unable to find a connection that interests you, feel free to contact the alumni association and we will help you find the opportunity that is right for you! 864-656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Clemson Clubs Clemson Clubs across the world offer you an opportunity to stay connected to Clemson and meet fellow Tigers in your own home town. Find a Clemson Club near you with your zip code and learn about all of the events that you can be a part of in your area. Affinity Groups Affinity Groups provide alumni an opportunity to gather with other graduates who share a common interest. Find a group for you! TigerLink Gateway The TigerLink Gateway is Clemson’s campus-wide mentoring initiative and the entryway to career connections. The Gateway helps facilitate career-related conversations between students, Clemson alumni, faculty & staff, friends of Clemson, and industry leaders around the globe. Community members can seek knowledge and advice, explore career fields, become a mentor, join an official mentoring group or program, and build professional networks. Make a Gift The greatest resource Clemson has is its alumni. Whether it is through the donation of time, talent, or resources, every Tiger has something to offer. The Clemson Alumni Association is here to help you find the manner of giving that suits you best. Gifts of any amount not only support scholarships, construction and classrooms, they also help raise our alumni participation rate, an important factor in establishing our overall national rankings. Make your annual gift today. Volunteer The purpose of this directory is to aid Clemson University alumni and friends in identifying opportunities to connect and serve their alma mater. Additionally, this directory will help Clemson University identify those individuals who are looking to serve and support the mission of our great University. Class Projects Each year, class projects are a way for alumni to continue and establish new traditions for Clemson. From creating scholarship endowments to memorial gardens to senior sidewalks in the President’s Park, class projects account for a significant amount of volunteer activity and gift contributions through the Clemson Fund. Affinity Groups Chinese Alumni Council Clemson Black Alumni Council Clemson Corps Construction Science Management Hispanic and Latinx Alumni Council International Clemson Alumni Representatives MBA Alumni Society Student Alumni Association Young Alumni Council Clemson Clubs Volunteer Opportunities Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info