FightOnline Login Get Involved Communities Affinity Programs Alumnae (Women’s) Groups Asian Pacific Alumni Association Black Alumni Association Latino Alumni Association Lambda LGBTQ+ Alumni Association Veterans Network Age-based Programs Half Century Trojans (age 72+) Encore Trojans (Ages 46-71) Second Decade (Ages 36-45) Young Alumni (Up to Age 35) Current Students Alumni Networks Alumni Near You School-based Groups Volunteer Share Your Expertise Lead an Event Join a Committee Day of SCervice Trojan Travel Events Event Calendar Annual Traditions Alumni Awards Day of SCervice Day of SCupport Game Watch Homecoming Reunion Weekend SCendoffs Volunteer Recognition Dinner Weekenders Welcome ReSCeptions Women’s Conference View Past Programs Benefits Overview Stay Connected Alumni Directory Manage Your Profile Request an Alumni Membership Card Sign Up for an Alumni Email Account New Graduates Career Campus Special Offers The Trojan Family Archive New Graduates About Mission & History USCAA at a Glance 2021-22 Board of Governors Staff Directory Class Notes Need Help? Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Get Involved Communities Affinity Programs Alumnae (Women’s) Groups Asian Pacific Alumni Association Black Alumni Association Latino Alumni Association Lambda LGBTQ+ Alumni Association Veterans Network Age-based Programs Half Century Trojans (age 72+) Encore Trojans (Ages 46-71) Second Decade (Ages 36-45) Young Alumni (Up to Age 35) Current Students Alumni Networks Alumni Near You School-based Groups Volunteer Share Your Expertise Lead an Event Join a Committee Day of SCervice Trojan Travel Events Event Calendar Annual Traditions Alumni Awards Day of SCervice Day of SCupport Game Watch Homecoming Reunion Weekend SCendoffs Volunteer Recognition Dinner Weekenders Welcome ReSCeptions Women’s Conference View Past Programs Benefits Overview Stay Connected Alumni Directory Manage Your Profile Request an Alumni Membership Card Sign Up for an Alumni Email Account New Graduates Career Campus Special Offers The Trojan Family Archive New Graduates About Mission & History USCAA at a Glance 2021-22 Board of Governors Staff Directory Class Notes Need Help? Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Congratulations, Class of 2022! A class tempered by the uncertainty of COVID-19 crosses a finish line during USC’s 139th commencement ceremony. The Music Man Already an accomplished composer and conductor, USC Thornton School of Music grad Adam Karelin is the Class of 2022 valedictorian. A New “Starring” Role At 93, prolific character actor James Hong '54 finally gets a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. “Life is What You Bake It” Vallery Lomas ’07, JD '10 left her legal career to focus on baking — and won the “Great American Baking Show.” Now she’s an acclaimed cookbook author. Tiny Trojan A seasoned USC football fan at the age of six, Julian Segura embodies the close ties between the university and the community. Alumni Gmail Account 2-Step Verification USC now requires all @alumni.usc.edu Gmail users to have 2-step verification activated on their accounts. We proudly salute our Premier Partners for supporting the USC Alumni Association. USC Alumni Association Epstein Family Alumni Center 3607 Trousdale Parkway, TCC 305 Los Angeles, CA 90089-3106 (213) 740-2300 | alumni@usc.edu © 2022 USC Alumni Association Terms of Use Notice of Non-Discrimination Privacy Notice OK We use cookies and similar technologies to understand our visitors’ experiences. By continuing to use this website, you agree to this condition of use. For further information please see our privacy notice. Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT