Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu BrownConnect Fund Ensuring all students have access to summer internships and research experiences. Breadcrumb Home Giving Brown Annual Fund Sub Navigation In This Section The Brown Fund Brown Medical Annual Fund School of Engineering Annual Fund School of Public Health Annual Fund Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund BrownConnect Fund IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Campus Sustainability Fund Athletics Annual Fund Reunion & Class Giving Ever True Sustainers Volunteer Appreciation Month Phone Wallpapers Academic exploration is one of the hallmarks of a Brown education. With the BrownConnect Fund, we're ensuring that this freedom to explore extends far beyond the classroom. BrownConnect provides undergraduates with summer internship and research opportunities, as well as financial support, to pursue their academic and professional goals while solving real-world problems. Give to BrownConnect Support academic exploration beyond the classroom. MAKE A GIFT The BrownConnect Fund supports: Creating more high-quality internships and research opportunities in a wide range of fields across the globe, including Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards (UTRAs). Providing financial support for students who might otherwise not be able to accept a summer internship or research position due to financial barriers with Linking Internships and Knowledge (LINK) Awards and Summer Earnings Waivers (SEWs). Linking students with the extraordinary worldwide network of Brown alumni, parents, and friends. Impact funds are part of the Brown Annual Fund family. These giving options strengthen a specific University priority. Gifts made to an impact fund will be used where it's most needed within the fund's focus area, allowing the University to be strategic and effective with every dollar. BrownConnect Leader Challenge through June 30, 2022 The first $20,000 of each new or renewed BrownConnect Named Internship commitment made by June 30, 2022 will be matched up to a total of $200,000. This generous challenge match is sponsored by Anthony M. Miller ’79, P’22, and Cecilia Miller P’22; Andrea Terzi Baum ’83, P’15, P’18, P’21 and David M. Baum P’15, P’18, P’21; and Genine Macks Fidler ’77, P'’4, P’12 and Josh E. Fidler ’77, P’04, P’12. 85 % of students participate in summer experiential learning during their time at Brown 23,175 students and alumni connecting through BrownConnect $ 3.2M funds awarded to students during the 2018-19 academic year Want to learn more about the BrownConnect Fund? Contact us at brown-fund@brown.edu. As part of the family of funds for annual giving with the Brown Annual Fund, gifts made to the BrownConnect Fund and any other impact fund are included in Annual Fund totals and the Reunion Class Gift to the Annual Fund. Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search BrownConnect Fund Open details for BrownConnect Fund Bookmark this Page