Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu The William Rogers Award One alumni body, 250+ years of humanitarianism. Breadcrumb Home Volunteer Volunteer Recognition Sub Navigation In This Section Alumni Service Award Association of Class Leaders Class of the Year Award Brown Annual Fund Class Participation Award Brown Annual Fund Class of the Year Award Brown Annual Fund Co-Chairs' Award Brown Annual Fund Young Alumni Award Brown Bear Award Brown Medical Alumni Association Awards H. Anthony Ittleson ’60 Award John Hope Award Joseph M. Fernandez ’85 Award Nan Tracy ’46 Award The William Rogers Award Young Alumni Service Award The Brown Alumni Association established the William Rogers Award in 1984 to recognize an outstanding alumna or alumnus whose service to society in general is representative of the words of the Brown Charter: living a life “of usefulness and reputation.” It recognizes important contributions to humankind made by Brown alumni anywhere in the world. Roger Williams was the first Rhode Islander. In a neat bit of symmetry, William Rogers was the first Brunonian, enrolling in 1765. Rogers was the only student attending the new college for the first nine months, and when he graduated with six other men in 1769, he gave the first Commencement oration. In 1790 Rogers became president of oratory and belles-lettres at the University of Pennsylvania, a position he held until 1811. He served as vice president of the Society for Gradual Abolition of Slavery, and in 1797 he was vice president of the Philadelphia Society for Alleviating the Miseries of Public Prisons. He died on April 7, 1824. NOMINATE A RECIPIENT Recipients 2019 Recipient Spencer R. Crew '71, P'00, P'04 By creating innovative and inclusive exhibitions and public programs, Spencer Crew has dedicated his long career to making history accessible to the general public. His groundbreaking work “Field to Factory: Afro-American Migration 1915–1940,” which was on exhibit at the Smithsonian for nearly 20 years, generated a national discussion about migration, race, and the curation of historical exhibitions. He also co-curated “The American Presidency: A Glorious Burden” which is one of the Smithsonian’s most popular exhibitions. Crew is an active member of the academic and cultural communities, serving on many boards that work to spark the public’s interest in history. He is a past chair of the National Council for History Education and serves on the Board of the National Trust for Historic Preservation as well as the Nominating Board of the Organization of American Historians. Crew has been selected to The Organization of American Historians' Distinguished Lectureship Program, a speakers bureau dedicated to American history and speaking to diverse audiences across the country. He currently serves as the interim director of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture. A past president of the Brown Alumni Association and two-term trustee, Crew has been a longtime volunteer for the University and currently serves on the Slavery & Justice Advisory Board. 2018 Recipient Maggie Hassan ’80, P’15 United States Senator The second woman in American history to be elected both Governor and United States Senator, Maggie Hassan was first drawn to public service as an advocate fighting to ensure that children like her son Ben, who experiences severe disabilities, would be fully included in their communities and have the same opportunities as other children. Today, as a member of several Senate committees, Senator Hassan continues her quest to help students and families. She works across party lines to solve problems in order to expand middle-class opportunity, support small businesses, and keep America safe, secure, and free. By working to make college more affordable, by expanding access to job training, by helping innovative businesses grow, and by combatting the prevalent heroin, fentanyl, and opioid crisis, she hopes to build a more inclusive economic future in which all people who work hard can get ahead and stay ahead. Hassan holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in history from Brown and a Juris Doctor from Northeastern University. 2017 Recipient Lauren J. Asher ’87 Nonprofit leader A nationally recognized nonprofit leader, policy expert, and advocate for college access, affordability, and success, Lauren Asher’s career has focused on lowering barriers to equity and opportunity. She is a former president of The Institute for College Access & Success (TICAS), a high-impact research and policy nonprofit working to improve student aid and reduce the burden of student debt. While at TICAS, Asher developed the policy model and spearheaded the movement for what became the first widely available income-based student loan repayment plan (IBR) for federal student loans. In 2007, President George W. Bush signed IBR into law as part of the College Cost Reduction & Access Act. Asher holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in semiotics from Brown and a Master of Public Administration from Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government. 2016 Recipient Jaykumar A. Menon ’90 Human rights lawyer An award-winning international human rights lawyer, social entrepreneur, and teacher, Jaykumar Menon helps save the lives of millions of the world’s poor by pioneering and leveraging new technologies. Collectively, his concepts in open innovation have attracted over $120 million in funding. His latest initiative, The Open Source Pharma project, aims to provide affordable medicine for all in a global open-source pharmaceutical ecosystem. Previously, he was head of international development at the X Prize Foundation, a group dedicated to bringing about “radical breakthroughs for the benefit of humanity” through incentivized competition. Earlier in his career as an attorney, he won victories in several highprofile cases, including a $4 billion judgment on behalf of victims of the Bosnian genocide. Menon is currently professor of practice at the McGill University Institute for the Study of International Development. He constructed an independent concentration at Brown and earned both an M.A. and J.D. from Columbia University. All Previous Award Recipients Aaron T. Beck ’42, P ’74, GP ’00 ’02, founder of cognitive therapy Seth Berkley ’78, ’81 MD, founder of the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative Thomas G. Catena ’86, medical doctor Edwidge Danticat ’93 MFA, award-winning author George M. C. Fisher ’64 ScM, ’66 PhD, P ’88 ’92, president, chairman of the board, and chief executive officer, Eastman Kodak Company Kathryn Scott Fuller ’68, P ’06, president, World Wildlife Fund and the Conservation Foundation James B. Garvin ’78, ’81 ScM, ’84 PhD, chief scientist for NASA’s Mars and Lunar Exploration Programs David R. Gockley ’65, general director, Houston Grand Opera Hermes C. Grillo ’44, P ’87, chief of general thoracic surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital Hill Harper ’88, film, television, and stage actor; author; philanthropist Richard C. Holbrooke ’62, permanent U.S. representative to the United Nations Lucile M. Jones ’76, seismologist Jim Yong Kim ’82, chair of the Department of Global Health and Social Medicine at Harvard Medical School Irving R. Levine ’44, NBC News chief economics correspondent Byron K. Lichtenberg ’69, astronaut, pilot, and engineer Lois Hammersberg Lowry ’58, award winning children’s author and illustrator Kurt M. Luedtke ’61, Pulitzer Prize and Oscar winner Linda Mason ’64, P ’01, vice president, public affairs, CBS News Zachary P. Morfogen ’50, P ’87, founding chairman emeritus, National Hospice Foundation and the National Hospice Organization Samuel M. Nabrit ’28 ScM, ’32 PhD, educator and developmental biologist Frank Newman ’47, former president, Education Commission of the States Nawal M. Nour ’88, founder and director of the African Women’s Health Practice of Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston Joseph V. Paterno ’50, professor and head football coach, Pennsylvania State University Thomas E. Pérez ’83, assistant attorney general for civil rights in the U.S. Department of Justice Barbara J. Reisman ’71, ’06 MD, P ’02 ’05, executive director, Child Care Action Campaign William R. Rhodes ’57, P ’98, senior vice chairman, Citibank Kenneth T. Roth ’77, P’12, Executive director of Human Rights Watch, the largest human rights organization in the U.S. Malika Saada Saar ’92, founder and executive director of the Rebecca Project for Human Rights William H. Twaddell ’63, U.S. ambassador to Nigeria Diana E. Wells ’88, president of Ashoka Augustus A. White III ’57, distinguished surgeon Gerard B. White ’86, co-founder, Landmine Survivors Network Related Links Volunteer Recognition Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search The William Rogers Award Open details for The William Rogers Award Bookmark this Page