Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Events No matter where you have landed, you can find inspiration, friendship, and lifelong learning with your extended Brown family. Sub Navigation In This Section Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Events No matter where you have landed, you can find inspiration, friendship, and lifelong learning with your extended Brown family. New experiences and more chances to connect. From virtual conversations on research and issues of the day to alumni networking and social gatherings, find events that will keep you engaged with Brunonians and in the life of the University. Alumni Events Events Calendar Alumni and friends gatherings—from social events to faculty lectures or career networking nights—offer something for everyone. Find out what’s coming up. Campus Dance The social event of the year. And it's all for you. Reunions Classes ending in 2 and 7 and recent grads are welcome back to campus May 27-29, 2022. Medical Reunion Weekend It's time to celebrate ... Medical School Reunion Weekend 2022 is here! Though this is the reunion year for classes ending in 2 or 7, and a special gathering for members of the Class of MD'20, there are ways for everyone to join us for the festivities! University Events Featured University Events Stay connected with campus and benefit from the expertise of Brown faculty, visiting speakers, and more through upcoming virtual events. Webcasts, Podcasts, and Captured Virtual Events Find collections of lectures, panels and community conversations featuring Brown faculty and alumni sharing their knowledge and perspectives on current events and a range of other topics. Related Links Brown Travelers Related Stories Alumni & Friends Examining the Evolution of Women at Brown April 11, 2022 A unique online networking opportunity and discussion brought together Brunonians from around the world for an evening of insight and connection. Read Article Open details for Examining the Evolution of Women at Brown Alumni & Friends WATCH | Empowering Change: An Evening of Conversation & Learning with Professors Bogues, Rose & Provost Locke February 7, 2022 At this special event, leading Brown scholars illuminated their work and fielded questions from the alumni community about the persistence of racial inequality and the legacies of slavery. Read Article Open details for WATCH | Empowering Change: An Evening of Conversation &amp; Learning with Professors Bogues, Rose &amp; Provost Locke Alumni & Friends Reunion, with a 2021 Twist May 3, 2021 With events both inspired by reunions past plus brand-new digital extras, Brown’s 2021 Virtual Reunion Weekend bypassed all geographic boundaries and headed straight into the living rooms of thousands of alumni around the world. Read Article Open details for Reunion, with a 2021 Twist Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Events Open details for Events Bookmark this Page