Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Europe Summer Sea Travel August 09 - August 19, 2022 Cruising the Baltic Sea aboard the Hebridean Sky View Trip Brochure Ilya Vinitsky, Professor of Russian literature in the Slavic Department, Princeton University Ilya Vinitsky is Professor of Russian literature in the Slavic Department at Princeton University. His main fields of expertise are Russian Romanticism and Realism, the history of emotions, and nineteenth- century intellectual and spiritual history. His books include Vasily Zhukovsky’s Romanticism and the Emotional History of Russia (Northwestern University Press, 2015), Ghostly Paradoxes: Modern Spiritualism and Russian Culture in the Age of Realism (Toronto University Press, 2009; Choice Magazine’s list of Outstanding Academic Titles for 2010) and A Cultural History of Russian Literature, co-written with Andrew Baruch Wachtel (Polity Press, 2009). He also co-edited Madness and the Mad in Russian Culture (University of Toronto Press, 2007) and published a chapter on the history of madness in literature and art in the recent Routledge History of Madness & Mental Health. His most personal book, The Count of Sardinia: Dmitry Khvostov and Russian Culture (New Literary Observer, 2017; in Russian) investigates the phenomenon of anti-poetry in Russian literary tradition from the 18th through the 21st century and focuses on the literary biography and cultural function of the king of Russian bad poets, Count Dmitry Khvostov. This book received a 2018 Marc Raeff's Book Prize of the Eighteenth-Century Russian Studies Association. In 2019 Vinitsky received a Guggenheim Fellowship for his project of a comprehensive study of political and literary activities of Ivan Narodny (Jaan Siboul), a Russian-Estonian expat writer, art critic, and con-man, who lived in America from 1906 until his death in 1953 and was labeled by FBI as “the worst fraud that ever came out of Russia. His most recent book on translation as provocation was published in Moscow in January 2022. Vinitsky has taught a variety of classes on Russia and the West, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, Russian thinkers, criminals and justice in literature, spiritualism and literature, and history of emotions. In 2010 he received the University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Ira Abrams Award for Distinguished Teaching. About the Journey Join us for an exploration of five nations that border the Baltic Sea, cruising at the height of summer when sunlight extends into the evening hours and temperatures are mild. Marvel at the cosmopolitan Swedish capital of Stockholm and the remote Swedish island of Visby, as well as the Baltic states of Latvia and Estonia, where port cities boast marvelously untouched medieval quarters. Enjoy the grandeur of St. Petersburg and its surrounding country estates and call at Helsinki, capital of Finland. Cruise through a unique archipelago of 6,700 islands boasting rich maritime heritage and natural beauty to call at the picturesque village of Mariehamn, the heart of the Åland Islands. Highlights of this program are plentiful. Enjoy a specially arranged after-hours visit to the Hermitage and early entrances to the palace complexes of Peter the Great or Catherine the Great. Relish in private performances and guest speakers, including a guest talk by a Parliamentarian in Tallinn, Estonia, a children’s folkloric performance in Riga, Latvia, and impressive Red Army Choir in St Petersburg, Russia. Discover five UNESCO World Heritage sites – Sweden’s Hanseatic town of Visby and Drottningholm Palace along a lake in the suburbs of Stockholm; as well as the historic centers of Riga, Tallinn and St. Petersburg. Reservations To hold your space, please contact our partner tour operator, Criterion Travel, at 888-328-2089 or res@criteriontravel.com. Contact Us journeys@princeton.edu Follow Us on Facebook @princetonjourneys Subscribe to the Mailing List See All Upcoming Journeys Trip Details Dates August 09 - August 19, 2022 Activity Level Moderate Cost from $7,990 per person, double occupancy Deposit $1,000 per person Contact journeys@princeton.edu (609) 258-8686 Contact Us journeys@princeton.edu Follow Us on Facebook @princetonjourneys Subscribe to the Mailing List See All Upcoming Journeys Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram