Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Alumni Spring Break You are here: Home1 / Events2 / Alumni Spring Break The students are on Spring Break, and Clemson is calling you home! Let’s do it again! The first Alumni Spring Break was a huge success so we are going to do it again! SAVE THE DATE – Come join the Clemson Alumni Association for a weekend of fun, activities and concerts with your old classmates and friends on March 23-26, 2023. You walked across campus for four years during your time as a student, but you won’t believe how much it has changed. Start Alumni Spring Break weekend with tours of the campus you once knew like the back of your hand and see how much it has grown and finally take that tour of the Calhoun Mansion you always said you’d take, but not until you graduated! Head downtown as we close College Ave and host a concert and block party. Take part in the alumni golf gathering at Walker Course and enjoy the festivities of our second Alumni Spring Break Welcome Back party where you can visit all the local Clemson businesses you spent most of your time in while you were a student. Discounts and Clemson swag will make your weekend back in Tigertown one you will never forget. *A portion of your registration fee may be considered a gift back to Clemson University 0Weeks0Days0Hours0Minutes0Seconds SAMPLE Alumni Spring Break Agenda (more to come…) All tour times are tentative and subject to change. Registration for tours is required and registrants will be sent a link via email to register for the tours. All tours are first-come, first-served. Thursday, March 24, 2022 8:30 AM – 4:30 PM Welcome to Tigertown Check-in at the Clemson Alumni Center All Alumni Spring Break registrants can check-in, receive their reunion packet and begin registering for tours and activities Friday, March 25, 2022 8:30 AM-4:30 PM Check-in at the Clemson Alumni Center All Alumni Spring Break registrants can check-in, receive their reunion packet and begin registering for tours and activities 2:00 PM Fort Hill Mansion Tour Participants must register for this tour, space is limited, time subject to change Capacity: 15 Length of tour: Approximately 1 hour Details for the tour and parking will be emailed directly to registrants. 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Participants must register for this tour, space is limited, time subject to change Capacity: 49 Details for the tour and parking will be emailed directly to registrants. 3:00 PM – 5:00 PM Cadden Chapel Tour Participants must register for this tour, space is limited, time subject to change “Drop In” tour. Approximately 20 tourers at a time Details for the tour and parking will be emailed directly to registrants. 3:30 PM – 5:00 PM General Campus Tour Participants must register for this tour, space is limited, time subject to change Capacity 40 Details for the tour and parking will be emailed directly to registrants. 4:00 PM – 5:00 PM Call My Name Tour Requires extensive walking. Wear comfortable walking shoes and bring water. Participants must register for this tour, space is limited, time subject to change Tour Description: The Call My Name campus walking tour brings the hidden history of African Americans to light at historic sites on Clemson University’s campus. Tour stops include Tillman Hall where Duke Ellington and his orchestra performed in 1955 and Harvey Gantt registered for classes when he desegregated Clemson in 1963; Hardin Hall, Clemson’s first academic building, and Trustee House built by mostly Black state prisoners; the Fort Hill Plantation House where enslaved persons labored for the Calhous and Clemsons; and Woodland Cemetery where both Clemson founders and their families are buried in marked graves and African American laborers are buried in recently recovered unmarked graves. This tour helps to fulfill the goal of the Board of Trustees’ Task Force on the History of Clemson for the university to document and share its complete history. Details for the tour and parking will be emailed directly to registrants. 6:00 PM- 9:00 PM Alumni Welcome Back Festival Featuring “Rough Mix” Headlined by Cravin’ Melon Saturday, March 26, 2022 8:30 AM-12:00 PM Check-in at the Clemson Alumni Center All Alumni Spring Break registrants can check-in, receive their reunion packet and begin registering for tours and activities 9:30 AM General Campus Tour Participants must register for this tour, space is limited, time subject to change Capacity 40 Details for the tour and parking will be emailed directly to registrants. 11:00 AM – 12:00 PM Fort Hill Mansion Tour Participants must register for this tour, space is limited, time subject to change Capacity: 15 Length of tour: Approximately 1 hour Noon-On Re-live the good ‘ole days and enjoy the evening in Downtown Clemson Have questions? Name * E-Mail * Phone Subject * I am interested in registering for the Alumni Spring Break Golf outing. YesNo Message * 1 + 7 = ?Please prove that you are human by solving the equation * Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info