Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month UC Alumni Association » About Us » Alumni Engagement Committee Set Navigation title in component Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Alumni Engagement Committee Outstanding volunteer leadership is necessary to help guide the UC Alumni Association in its work to serve and represent our family of lifelong Bearcats. The members of the Alumni Engagement Committee of the UC Foundation’s Board of Trustees provide that leadership and guidance, bringing a range of experiences and expertise to their shared role. Ruthie Keefe, CECH '81, Chair Leveraging her experience and expertise in the marketing and software development field, Ruthie Keefe has been a consistent presence at the forefront of UC Alumni Association volunteer leadership, helping to shape the organization’s alumni engagement and development programs. Known as both an innovator and advocate, Ruthie enjoys working to develop the strategies that drive successful interaction with alumni, as well as championing the opportunities available to her fellow Bearcats. Her primary motivation is what she considers UC’s most special quality — the excellence the UC education and the people in the UC family. Learn more about Ruthie's journey from student to volunteer. Jerry Fritz, BUS ’73, Vice Chair Like many alumni, Jerry Fritz became a bit disconnected from his UC experience as his work life took him far away from Cincinnati after graduation. When he rekindled his relationship years later, he realized how much he owed to his UC education and that his passion for supporting new generations of Bearcats had grown enormously. After a long career in the food industry, Jerry turned initial outreach from his college into a second “career” as a devoted volunteer leader for his alma mater. His driving motivation is the UC students of today and tomorrow, and doing all he can to help them grow personally, academically and professionally. A huge proponent of the co-op program, Jerry feels that UC’s sweet spot is the intersection of education and career preparation. “I’ve been an advocate for the students – that’s the most contagious part,” he says. “It’s about them and their education, and then how they use that education to change their lives as alumni.” Learn more about Jerry's journey from student to vounteer. Tom Carleton, A&S ’91 right arrow down arrow Tom Carleton is a dedicated volunteer with UC largely because he feels a great desire to give back to the university that afforded he and his wife Christine, whom he met on campus, the educational excellence that propelled them to success. He embodies UC’s deep community connections through his work as the regional executive director of the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society in Cincinnati. He marvels at the quality of education and the national rankings that serve as testimony. Yet he feels the greatest proof is in the steady stream of accomplished graduates who become productive alumni. Tom appreciates UC’s cooperative education and experiential learning opportunities, as well as the beautiful urban campus. But his penchant for service, currently expressed through his work with on the UC Foundation board’s Alumni Engagement Committee, mostly can be traced to a personal commitment to help others. “UC is a huge part of our lives,” he says, and we are very passionate about giving back to the students.” Rishi Mehta, MED ’22 right arrow down arrow As a UC Foundation student trustee, Rishi Mehta brings an extremely valuable perspective to his Alumni Engagement Committee role: Connecting in meaningful ways with current students will help them become more engaged alumni after graduation. Rishi is entering the management consulting field with a focus on healthcare commercial strategy. He’s an incoming associate as the Boston Consulting Group in Philadelphia, and a volunteer with the Crohn’s and Colitis Foundation of Southern Ohio. Rishi feels that his university’s greatest quality is that it offers something for every Bearcat, no matter their field or interest, and yet it retains a unifying feel. “I volunteer with the UC Foundation and UC Alumni Association to build a connection with UC beyond my time as a student,” he says. “I will soon be an alumnus and am interested in seeing how alumni are supported and connected with one another.” Learn more about Rishi's journey from student to volunteer. Darrell Miller, CCM ’85 right arrow down arrow Darrell Miller adds a unique perspective to the Alumni Engagement Committee through his decades of professional experience as a prominent entertainment attorney based in Los Angeles. He is partner and founding chair of the Entertainment & Sports Law Department with Fox Rothschild, LLP, Attorneys at Law. Beyond his work with the UC Foundation’s board, Darrell has served as a Kautz Alumni Master for his alma mater and supported programs across the university landscape. He has also provided volunteer leadership with numerous organizations related to the entertainment field. Arun Murthy, BUS ’95 right arrow down arrow With more than three decades in the financial services industry, Arun Murthy brings an analytical perspective to UC’s advancement and alumni engagement efforts. While studying accounting and finance as a student, he was also active outside of the classroom with conducting campus tours, alumni activities and student government. Arun appreciates that UC maintains close ties to the community, and that strong relationships exist throughout the campus even as a large urban university with an outsized influence. “UC was very good to me and helped me become who I am today,” he says. “I want to give back to help the university continue to enable students and alumni to succeed.” Rusty Myers, BUS ’82 right arrow down arrow For Rusty Myers, support and advocacy of UC is a proud, lifelong, family tradition; his parents and grandparents established service to alma mater as essentially part of the Myers DNA. Rusty has been a volunteer leader for the UC Alumni Association and UC Foundation for decades. Through relationships developed from his career in Cincinnati’s commercial real estate industry as well as his active alumni life, he appreciates the symbiotic nature of the city and region with its namesake university, and works to continuously strengthen that bond. These deep-seated passions fuel Rusty’s ongoing service to the UC alumni family. He feels UC’s greatest strength is its ability to successfully train students for fulfilling careers, and he ascribes special value to arguably UC’s greatest “invention” — cooperative education and the opportunities it provides students as they evolve into productive and engaged alumni. Learn more about Rusty's journey from student to vounteer. Ryan Rybolt, CEAS ’97 right arrow down arrow Upon graduating from UC, Ryan Rybolt embarked on a lifelong, all-in relationship with his alma mater as an engaged alumnus who wants to enhance the alumni journey for his fellow Bearcats. He started as a volunteer with the UC Alumni Association’s Young Alumni program and the more he became involved, the more his passion for that work grew. Meanwhile, his career flourished within the rapidly evolving financial technology industry, where he has pioneered behind-the-scenes infrastructures that enable businesses to seamlessly receive and send payments (“Think Venmo for businesses,” he says). He is co-founder and CEO of Payload. Eventually Ryan became a UC Foundation trustee, leveraging that broader platform to positively affect others who love their university as he does. Among his work in that role, he is proud to serve on the Alumni Engagement Committee and especially to bring his technical expertise to the group’s ongoing work toward facilitating more rewarding relationships for UC alumni worldwide. Andi Wiot, NUR ’65 right arrow down arrow Andi Wiot’s interest in serving her alma mater comes very naturally. Her parents were outstanding musicians and CCM faculty members. Her late husband chaired UC’s Department of Radiology and served on the UC Foundation board. And Andi leveraged her nursing degree to work in the Emergency Department at University Hospital (now the UC Medical Center), retiring as Nursing Supervisor. She later became a founding member of the UC College of Nursing’s Board of Advisors and helped organize the annual recognition dinner and awards that showcase regional nurses for their tremendous caregiving. As a member of the UC Foundation board’s Alumni Engagement Committee, Andi cherishes the opportunity to champion the university and the UC family. “UC is an incredible collection of many outstanding colleges, attracting high-achieving students, and graduating talented students in multiple fields,” she says. Looking for ways to stay connected? Harness the power of the UC alumni network by joining Bearcats Connect. Get involved with an affinity, college or national network. Visit our events calendar to find alumni experiences that match your interests. Kelly Grant Associate Director of Annual Giving and Member Services 513-556-6294 grantke@foundation.uc.edu University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top