Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Brown Medical Annual Fund Through Annual Fund support, we're educating the next generation of physician leaders at The Warren Alpert Medical School. Breadcrumb Home Giving Brown Annual Fund Sub Navigation In This Section The Brown Fund Brown Medical Annual Fund School of Engineering Annual Fund School of Public Health Annual Fund Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion Fund BrownConnect Fund IPC Brown Annual Fund Scholarship Campus Sustainability Fund Athletics Annual Fund Reunion & Class Giving Ever True Sustainers Volunteer Appreciation Month Phone Wallpapers The Brown Medical Annual Fund (BMAF) is the foundation for innovative medical education at Brown. It provides students with the resources needed to pursue a variety of research, educational, and clinical experiences. Every dollar of BMAF is put to use immediately, ensuring a robust experience in the classroom and beyond while providing our students with valuable opportunities for growth. Give the gift of medicine. Support today's medical students by giving to the Brown Medical Annual Fund. MAKE A GIFT The Brown Medical Annual Fund supports: Bringing the most talented medical students to Brown through scholarship aid. Funding for the Doctoring program, which provides all first- and second-year students early exposure to real patients and medical practice. Increasing access to a variety of enrichment opportunities through service learning and community service. The Scholarly Concentrations program and curriculum development to expand academic offerings and stay up to date with the latest trends in medicine, science, technology, and public health. Summer research that allows students to explore a future career path or ignite a passion that enhances their practice of medicine. Advancing Diversity in Medicine Term Scholarship Our mission is to improve the health and wellness of all. To do that, we need to attract and train students from all cultural, ethnic, racial, and socioeconomic backgrounds. For many students—especially those from historically underrepresented groups—paying for a medical education can be a huge barrier. With the Advancing Diversity in Medicine Term Scholarship, we’re aiming to remove that barrier. This scholarship provides current-use financial resources for students underrepresented in medicine. Establishing this annual term scholarship provides an opportunity for students from diverse backgrounds to avail themselves of all that a Brown medical education has to offer. Recognizing your gift When it comes to our supporters, their loyalty and leadership doesn't go unnoticed. Learn how your gift to the Brown Medical Annual Fund is celebrated. Medical Annual Fund Gift Recognition → For more information on the Brown Medical Annual Fund, please contact: Sarah Wait Associate Director of Annual Giving, Biomedical Advancement +1 (401) 863-1635 sarah_wait@brown.edu Related information The Warren Alpert Medical School website Medical Annual Fund Donor Recognition Giving to the Warren Alpert Medical School Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown Medical Annual Fund Open details for Brown Medical Annual Fund Bookmark this Page