Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Association of Class Leaders Brown’s community of alumni class officers. Breadcrumb Home Volunteer Volunteer Opportunities Sub Navigation In This Section Association of Class Leaders If you’re one of Brown’s 600+ elected or appointed class leaders you’re automatically a member of the Association of Class Leaders (ACL), and the ACL Board of Advisors is here to help you! What is the ACL? The ACL works to keep alumni engaged in the Brown community, while the ACL Board of Advisors—elected by the ACL—upholds the very best of Brown’s spirit and traditions and supports class volunteers (e.g., class presidents, vice presidents, secretaries, treasurers, webmasters, communications managers, etc.) through mentoring, training, and by providing the tools that class leaders need to lead effectively. Become a Class Leader Support Brown and stay connected with your class by getting involved with your class leadership. Class leader elections are held every five years in the spring following your Reunion. Terms begin on July 1 and end June 30. Want to get involved? Learn more about class leadership positions. Reach Out on Facebook and Instagram You can keep in touch with other class leaders on the ACL Facebook page and Instagram account where you'll find direct access to an online community of volunteers with decades of collective experience. Need some ideas for class engagement on your class social media channels? The ACL Facebook page and Instagram account are your one stop resource! Feel free to start a conversation thread on any volunteer-related topic such as event planning and communicating with classmates. More Helpful Resources for Class Leaders: Class Leader Toolkit This is your go-to resource to learn about class leader responsibilities and tools to help you build class engagement. Virtual Engagement Toolkit Developed by the Alumni Relations staff, the Virtual Engagement Toolkit will help you plan, organize, and execute virtual class activities. Class Leadership Webinars The Basics Experienced class leaders share best practices on class engagement planning and communications and a wealth of tips and resources. Watch now. (35 minutes) Class Engagement in a Virtual World ACL Board Members and experienced class leaders share knowledge and tips—including highlights from the Virtual Engagement Toolkit, a case study on virtual events, and strategies on how to best leverage social media. Watch now. (45 minutes) Inspired Class Leadership Covers the ins and outs of class leadership in today’s evolving environment, including resources to foster deeper engagement with your class. Watch now. (45 minutes) Play 1 of 3 The Basics: Experienced class leaders share best practices on class engagement planning and communications and a wealth of tips and resources. (35 minutes) Play 2 of 3 Class Engagement in a Virtual World: ACL Board Members and experienced class leaders share knowledge and tips—including highlights from the Virtual Engagement Toolkit, a case study on virtual events, and strategies on how to best leverage social media. (45 minutes) Play 3 of 3 Inspired Class Leadership: This webinar covers the ins and outs of class leadership in today’s evolving environment, including resources to foster deeper engagement with your class. (45 minutes) See What’s New Read the most recent ACL newsletter. ACL Class Leader Mentoring Would you or your class leadership team like some one-on-one mentorship on a specific area of class leadership? Perhaps some guidance on class engagement, communication, or virtual events? To find out more, email class@brown.edu or reach out to your alumni relations liaison to be connected with an ACL Mentor. Volunteer Opportunities Encourage other Brunonians to volunteer! ACL Board of Advisors 2020 – 21 President: Harry Holt ’84, P’16 Vice President: Sarah Gomel ’06 Secretary: Barbara Langworthy ’63 Treasurer: Petros Perselis ’10 Members-at-Large Salsa Ahmed ’11 Krista Bradley ’86 Michelle Frea ’14 Miriam Gonzales ’87 P’20 Didier Jean-Baptiste ’90 Zachary Langway ’09 Michael Mancuso ’98 Marco Martinez ’08 James R. Moody ’58 ScM’65, P’97 Berit S. Muh ’64 Gabrielle "Gabby" Napolitano ’03 Haru Okuda ’94 Steve Owens ’78, P’17 Jade Palomino ’07 Jennie Kerson Pritzker ’00 Terri Denning Sevilla ’82 Robert "Bob" Sherman ’69 P’98 Joshua B. Spector ’96 William "Bill" A. Tanenbaum ’76 William "Bill" Taylor ’75 Stephanie A. Vasquez ’13 Related Links Volunteer Tools & Resources Association of Class Leaders Class of the Year Award Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Association of Class Leaders Open details for Association of Class Leaders Bookmark this Page