Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Volunteer Recognition Meet our recipients and learn more about the awards that honor the difference that dedicated Brunonians have made for Brown and for the world. Breadcrumb Home Volunteer Sub Navigation In This Section Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Alumni Service Award Association of Class Leaders Class of the Year Award Brown Annual Fund Class Participation Award Brown Annual Fund Class of the Year Award Brown Annual Fund Co-Chairs' Award Brown Annual Fund Young Alumni Award Brown Bear Award Brown Medical Alumni Association Awards H. Anthony Ittleson ’60 Award John Hope Award Joseph M. Fernandez ’85 Award Nan Tracy ’46 Award The William Rogers Award Young Alumni Service Award Volunteer Recognition Meet our recipients and learn more about the awards that honor the difference that dedicated Brunonians have made for Brown and for the world. Raise your glass to some of the best among us! Who are the alumni all-stars? See this year’s volunteer award recipients and honorees, and find out more about the awards and previous recipients. William Rogers Award The highest honor bestowed upon a Brown graduate who exemplifies the University's mission to prepare alumni for lives of “usefulness and reputation”.* * In the words of Brown's charter Spencer R. Crew ’71, P’00, P’04 By creating innovative and inclusive exhibitions and public programs, Spencer Crew has dedicated his long career to making history accessible to the general public. His groundbreaking work “Field to Factory: Afro-American Migration 1915–1940,” which was on exhibit at the Smithsonian for nearly 20 years, generated a national discussion about migration, race, and the curation of historical exhibitions. He also co-curated “The American Presidency: A Glorious Burden” which is one of the Smithsonian’s most popular exhibitions. Spencer is an active member of the academic and cultural communities, serving on many boards that work to spark the public’s interest in history. He is a past chair of the National Council for History Education and serves on the Board of the National Trust for Historic Preservation as well as the Nominating Board of the Organization of American Historians. Spencer has been selected to The Organization of American Historians' Distinguished Lectureship Program, a speakers bureau dedicated to American history and speaking to diverse audiences across the country. He currently serves as the interim director of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture. A past president of the Brown Alumni Association and two-term trustee, Spencer has been a longtime volunteer for the University and currently serves on the Slavery & Justice Advisory Board. See previous recipients Brown Bear Award Honors a lifetime of outstanding and wide-ranging volunteer service to Brown. Darcy A. Travlos ’84, P’20 In her 35-year tenure as an alumni volunteer leader, Darcy Travlos has served in many roles: alumni interviewer, Women’s Launch Pad mentor, longtime leader of the Class of 1984, class events guru, and active board member and vice president of the Brown Club of Fairfield County. No matter the role, Darcy has always been an outstanding leader and unwavering supporter of the University. Scott D. Westerfield ’79 Scott Westerfield has been making lasting contributions to the Brown community for more than four decades. Having served in leadership roles for his class, the alumni interviewing program, the BAA Board of Governors, and the Brown Club of Orange County, Scott has been a constant, positive presence in the life of the University and its alumni. See previous recipients Alumni Service Award Honors distinguished, continuing volunteer service to Brown. Naria B. A. Halliwell ’97 Whether serving as a class leader or an alumni interviewer, Naria Halliwell has long been a dedicated Brown volunteer. Once a member of student government, and a class leader since her senior year, Naria has always worked to bring classmates together through innovative events and communications. A member of the powerhouse Class of 1997, Naria was a member of the class leadership team that planned the class’s outstanding 20th Reunion in 2017. Cynthia “Jill” Scobie ’58, John Reistrup ’58, Jim Furlong ’58 By developing an exceptional communications strategy and digital plan, Jill, John, and Jim (the Class of 1958 Communications team) have done outstanding work keeping their class meaningfully connected over the past several years. Now in its 11th edition, their interactive class newsletter is so popular, it is being included in the Brown University archives. See previous recipients Young Alumni Service Award For outstanding volunteer service to Brown by young alumni in any field of alumni engagement, recognizing young alumni for their hard work, love of Brown, and ability to set an example for their peers. Max H. Clermont ’11 MPH’12 Max Clermont is a tremendous asset to Brown. Consistently active as a volunteer and leader since his days on College Hill, Max has become a champion for first-generation students and alumni. From being a founding member of the BAA’s First Generation & Low Income Alumni Advisory Committee to launching regional first-gen care package events, Max is often at the center of many of the Brown’s new forward-looking alumni initiatives. See previous recipients Joseph M. Fernandez ’85 Award Recognizes a commitment to diversity and collaboration that strengthens the University community. Kenneth H. McDaniel ’69, P’13 An outstanding leader, advisor, and collaborator to many generations of Brown men and women, Ken McDaniel was also a cherished friend to countless members of the Brown family. Ken was dedicated to serving his alma mater since his days on campus as the spokesperson for students in the 1968 Black Student Walkout, and he continued to serve Brown through the years as a thoughtful voice for students and alumni alike. His deep commitment to Brown and his confidence in what the University could achieve reflect the dedication, optimism, and integrity of the award’s namesake. See previous recipients Brown Annual Fund Young Alumni Award Honors one or more young alumni (undergraduate alumni from 1-14 years out) whose volunteer fundraising efforts in the prior fiscal year distinguished them as rising leaders and contributed significantly to the Brown Annual Fund’s success. Ariana P. Cannavo ’08 Through her long-time volunteerism for the Annual Fund and her leadership as a co-chair of the Class of 2008 Fundraising Committee, Ariana Cannavo has truly demonstrated an incredible passion for encouraging fellow alumni to give back to Brown. In the 2019 fundraising year, Ariana was instrumental in raising almost $40,000 for the University and reached out to over 300 members of the Class of 2008 to encourage participation through the Brown Annual Fund. See previous recipients Brown Annual Fund Class Participation Award For the undergraduate alumni class that demonstrates extraordinary commitment to the University by achieving the highest participation in giving through the Annual Fund. Class of 1969 In honor of their 50th Reunion, the Class of 1969 achieved 46% Brown Annual Fund participation—the highest of any class in the past year. The effort was led by Reunion Gift Committee Co-Chairs J. Richard Chambers '69, Karen Sorkin Jakes '69, and Wesley Smith '69. See previous recipients Brown Annual Fund Co-Chairs’ Award Honors a volunteer whose efforts played a critical role in achieving the Annual Fund’s goals of securing financial support for the University’s highest priorities. Emily Ito ’19, Waylon Jin ’19, and Natalie Messing ’19 Emily, Waylon, and Natalie demonstrated outstanding leadership and commitment to the Brown Annual Fund as the co-chairs of the 2019 Senior Class Gift Committee. Through their leadership, the Class of 2019 raised more than $18,000 with 54% of the class participating – an increase of 23% in donors from the Class of 2018 and the first class to surpass 50% participation in more than five years. See previous recipients Association of Class Leaders Class of the Year Award Recognizes a class whose leaders facilitate exceptional engagement among classmates. Class of 1984 It has been a banner year for the Class of 1984! Classmates developed an outstanding line-up of events for their 35th Reunion, achieved record-breaking participation in the Annual Fund, utilized innovative Facebook campaigns to drive class engagement, and organized world-wide class meet-ups on Carberry Day. The Class of 1984’s dedicated, creative leaders go above and beyond the call of duty to ignite class spirit and drive class engagement. Class of 1969 The Class of 1969 threw the net wide to engage as many classmates as possible in planning for their 50th Reunion, and the 17-member Reunion Activities Committee worked diligently for more than a year to plan an exciting, inclusive, and uplifting weekend for all classmates. With programming that included behind-the-scenes looks at the 1968 Black Student Walkout and the creation of Brown’s Open Curriculum, the Class of 1969 hit it out of the park with their 50th Reunion! See previous recipients Brown Annual Fund Class of the Year Award For the class that most embodied the spirit of philanthropy at Brown over the last year through their dedicated outreach and support of the Brown Annual Fund. Class of 1984 The Class of 1984’s commitment to Brown and to the Annual Fund was fully demonstrated during their 35th Reunion. Together, the Reunion Gift and Activities Committees jointly contacted each member of the class to promote the Reunion Class Gift and Reunion Weekend attendance. The Class of 1984 showed their enthusiasm on both Giving Tuesday and Brunonians Pay it Forward Day and achieved the highest number of donors by a class on both days – for the second year in a row! They now hold the record for donors to the Brown Annual Fund in a single day with 217 donors. Class of 1999 The Class of 1999 had an exceptional 20th Reunion Class Gift campaign. They raised over $1 million, surpassing their goal of $750,000 by more than a third. They also more than doubled what they had previously raised for the Brown Annual Fund in a single year, and hit a personal best for class participation with 32.8%. They were a very engaged group that showed enthusiasm for tremendously raising the bar for their own class’s support of the Brown Annual Fund. See previous recipients Brown Medical Alumni Association Awards Recognizing distinguished alumni, faculty, and members of the community who support The Warren Alpert Medical School's mission and purpose. SEE FULL LIST OF AWARDS & RECIPIENTS H. Anthony Ittleson ’60 Award Given by the Brown Annual Fund for extraordinary leadership. John Atwater ’83, P’17, John B. Ehrenkranz ’87, P’24, and Paula M. McNamara ’84, P’20 served as co-chairs of the Brown Annual Fund from 2016-2019. Their dynamic leadership led to increasing Annual Fund dollar records during each of their three years as co-chairs, with the Annual Fund surpassing $45.8 million in their final year. John, John, and Paula raised sights for donors, volunteers, staff, and university leadership with their tireless energy and enthusiasm. They played a key role in increasing the number of Annual Fund volunteers to more than 1,000, reimagining the Annual Fund to include the Athletics Annual Funds, and for carving the path toward $50 million. They are champions for the Annual Fund, and their unwavering support and dedication for Brown University, along with their inspirational leadership, helped the Annual Fund reach new heights. See previous recipients Nan Tracy ’46 Award Honors distinguished service to a class, the Association of Class Leaders (ACL) or to Brown. James R. Moody ’58 ScM’65, P’97 earned an SCB and an SCM in engineering from Brown in 1958 and 1965 respectively. From 1959 to1962, he served in the U.S. Navy as a naval officer. He co-founded and served as president of Co-Planner, Inc. — a manufacturer of printed circuit boards — until 2000. Jim has served as an alumni volunteer for over 40 years. He was vice president of the Class of 1958 from 2008 to 2013 and currently serves as class co-president. He has played a pivotal role in planning his class reunions, serving on the Reunion Activities Committee for his 50th, 55th, and 65th reunions. Jim took his class leadership to the next level in 2009 when he joined the Association of Class Leaders Board of Directors, serving two terms. He has also volunteered his time as an alumni interviewer. Jim is a longtime Brown Annual Fund supporter and has served on six reunion gift committees — 40th, 45th, 50th, 55th, and 60th — and as the vice-chair on the 35th Reunion Gift Committee when his son, James S. Moody ’97, was a student at Brown. In conjunction with Jim’s active class engagement, he has served on the Advisory Council on Engineering since 2003. A longtime champion of annual fund giving, he saw the challenge of having separately recognized annual funds across the University. At a time when a change in annual fund organization was being considered, Jim was one of the impetuses behind the Brown School of Engineering Annual Fund inclusion within the Brown Annual Fund. Finally, Jim counts himself as an avid supporter of Brown Crew. See previous recipients John Hope Award For an alumna or alumnus who has made a significant impact in his/her community or society, and who demonstrates an unwavering commitment to public service either as a professional or a volunteer. See previous recipients The Elwood (Woody) E. Leonard, Jr. ’51 Distinguished Achievement Award Honors an individual or individuals who have made truly outstanding contributions to fundraising at Brown. For more information about alumni awards, contact: alumni-leadership@brown.edu Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Volunteer Recognition Open details for Volunteer Recognition Bookmark this Page