Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Travel Modes of Travel Cruise directly to the heart of the destination, experience leisurely river cruising, or travel by train, watching the surrounding landscapes on full display. Find more information on the vessels, including cabin specifications, ship amenities, dining options, and detailed deck plans below. Menu Main menu Travel Overview Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List Amadeus Brilliant Year of Construction 2011 Last Renovation 2020 Maximum Capacity 150 guests Flag Germany This exclusive, 110-meter Amadeus Brilliant was completely refurbished for 2020, offering premium travel comfort with generous suites and cabins for up to 150 guests. Amadeus Queen Year of Construction 2018 Maximum Capacity 162 Flag German Modern luxury combined with a familiar and cordial atmosphere. Amadeus Star Year of Construction 2019 Maximum Capacity 164 guests Flag Germany The elegant precision of Austria’s native son Mozart inspired the meticulous crafting of Amadeus Star, launched in 2019, which features the comforts of a refined and traditional hotel. AmaDouro Year of Construction 2019 Maximum Capacity 102 Flag Portugal Discover the rich history of Portugal and Spain as you journey through the Douro River Valley aboard the AmaDouro Anouvong Year of Construction 2019 Maximum Capacity 20 Flag Laos As imposing as the upper Mekong River in Laos, Anouvong enchants as a small boutique ship that seamlessly blends traditional Laotian ambiance and artwork with French-Colonial finesse. Caledonian Sky Year of Construction 1991 Last Renovation 2018 Maximum Capacity 114 Flag Bahamas With an intimate ambiance, the Caledonian Sky is perfect for exploring. Crystal Ravel Year of Construction 2017 Maximum Capacity 93 guests Flag Malta The all-suite, all-balcony, butler-serviced Crystal Ravel is exclusively chartered for a group of 93 guests, and has the highest staff-to-guest ratio among all European river lines. Delfin II Year of Construction 2009 Last Renovation 2014 Maximum Capacity 28 Flag Peru The Delfin II is an exclusive home base for Amazon River cruising. This luxury, 28-guest riverboat combines comfort and grace effortlessly with the wilderness of the Amazon. Expect world-class hospitality, fine dining and great company aboard. Island Sky Year of Construction 1992 Last Renovation 2013 Maximum Capacity 90 guests Flag Bahamas The Island Sky is a 59-cabin luxury expedition ship. She provides an abundance of public space and state-of-the-art amenities for relaxation, scenic viewing, and taking in lectures. L'Austral Year of Construction 2011 Maximum Capacity 240 Flag France Revolutionizing the small ship cruising experience, the deluxe L’Austral features a new generation of unprecedented design, technology and standards in comfort and elegance, and caters to the most discerning passengers. Le Bellot Year of Construction 2020 Maximum Capacity 184 guests Flag French The 184-guest Le Bellot is the newest addition to the Ponant Explorers series, designed to provide absolute comfort, even at the heart of the world's most remote regions. Le Boréal Year of Construction 2010 Maximum Capacity 240 Passengers Flag French Le Boréal features elegant design and innovative state-of-the-art marine technology. Le Bougainville Year of Construction 2019 Maximum Capacity 180 Flag French The exclusively chartered, five-star Le Bougainville, is one of four ships in the recent Ponant Explorers expedition yacht series and represents an extraordinary fleet of the most innovative cruise ships in the world. Le Champlain Year of Construction 2018 Maximum Capacity 180 Flag French The exclusively chartered, five-star Le Champain is one of four ships in the recent Ponant Explorers expedition yacht series and represents an extraordinary fleet of the most innovative cruise ships in the world. Le Dumont d'Urville Year of Construction 2019 Maximum Capacity 180 Flag French The exclusively chartered, five-star Le Dumont d'Urville, is one of four ships in the recent Ponant Explorers expedition yacht series and represents an extraordinary fleet of the most innovative cruise ships in the world. Le Jacques Cartier Year of Construction 2019 Maximum Capacity 184 Flag French Featuring innovative and environmentally-friendly equipment, elegantly designed staterooms, spacious suites with large windows, and lounge areas that open onto the outside, this new limited-capacity yacht boasting just 92 staterooms and suites offers a truly unique cruising experience. Le Laperouse Year of Construction 2018 Maximum Capacity 180 Flag France The exclusively chartered, five-star Le Laperouse is one of four ships in the recent Ponant Explorers expedition yacht series and represents an extraordinary fleet of the most innovative cruise ships in the world. Le Lyrial Year of Construction 2015 Maximum Capacity 220 Flag French The highly acclaimed Le Lyrial launched in 2015, represents the newest generation of state-of-the-art Five-Star small ships, featuring 110 deluxe Suites and Staterooms and distinctive French sophistication. Le Soléal Year of Construction 2013 Maximum Capacity 180 Flag French The highly acclaimed Le Soléal represents the newest generation of five-star small ship, featuring 110 suites and staterooms with distinctive French sophistication. Origin Year of Construction 2016 Maximum Capacity 20 Flag Ecuador The Origin is a premium class vessel whose understated luxury redefines the nature of cruise travel. With a maximum capacity of only 20 guests, this yacht offers an opportunity to explore the Galápagos Islands in exclusive style. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Next page ›› Last page last » Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College