Skip to main content ncstate-alumni-wolf-web Alumni Association Menu Close About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Discounts facebook twitter linked in email About About Staff Board of Directors Caldwell Fellows Program Awards Park Alumni Center Giving Contact Membership Membership Join Options Benefits Discounts Partners Membership App Career Services Alumni Directory for Members Engagement Engagement Student Involvement Regional Networks Game Watches Constituency Groups Volunteer WolfTreks Travel Alumni Business Directory News and Social Media Zoom Backgrounds Events Events Upcoming Events Annual Events NC State Magazine NC State Magazine Merchandise Merchandise NC State Ring Bricks and Pavers Holiday Ornaments License Plates Discounts Rewarding our members Through our partners, the Alumni Association offers valuable discounts and services to our members. Select a category below to learn more. If you have a question about access codes, contact Sammie Marshall ’13 at 919.515.0548 or samarsh3@ncsu.edu for assistance. Download our app The Alumni Association app is the simplest way to enhance the value of your membership. Read more Alumni Access Alumni Access partners with more than 350,000 discount providers to offer unparalleled value of up to 50 percent off at the places our members shop every day. This program is free for all members and easy to sign-up and use. Arts NC State ARTS NC STATE offers members $5 off tickets to Center Stage shows and discounted “Price B” tickets to University Theatre, Dance Program and Music @ NC State shows. Avis and Budget Members can take advantage of discounts of up to 25 percent with Avis and Budget. Plus, members can enroll for free in Avis Preferred® Service and Budget Fastbreak® Service. Durham Performing Arts Center The Durham Performing Arts Center offers members discounted ticket pricing on upcoming events as part of its SuperGroup program. Wellness and Recreation Wellness and Recreation offers Alumni Association members an annual gym membership for $420. Membership provides access to Wellness and Recreation indoor facilities, outdoor spaces, programs and services. All memberships can be purchased in person at the Wellness and Recreation Center main entrance, across from Talley Student Union. Call 919.515.7529 for more information. Fast Park & Relax Traveling for business or leisure and need to park? Fast Park & Relax is an off-site parking facility located conveniently near Raleigh-Durham International Airport off the Lumley/Westgate Road exit with covered parking from $4.77 to $5.25 per day. North Carolina Theatre North Carolina Theatre offers discounts up to 10 percent off single-ticket prices to members. North Carolina Symphony Alumni Association members can save up to 30 percent off regular ticket prices to select North Carolina Symphony concerts in Raleigh and Chapel Hill. You can purchase tickets by calling the North Carolina Symphony Box Office at 919.733.2750. Red and White Shop Members save 10 percent at Red and White Shop at Ridgewood Shopping Center in Raleigh. Show your Alumni Association membership card for the discount. Our State magazine Our State magazine showcases the best of North Carolina – from the mountains to the coast. Enjoy $5 off the regular subscription rate of $29.99/year for a special alumni rate of $24.99/year (print version only). Provident Mortgage Funding Qualified applicants could save up to $5,000 in closing costs using discount code M20JA7311 online at https://www.provident.com/NCStateAlumni or when calling 888-547-4050. Restrictions may apply. Alumni Association Home Campus Box 7503 NC State University Raleigh NC 27695-7503 919.515.3375 Campus Map About Membership Events Engagement News Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.