Skip to Main Content brown.edu Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift Brown University Alumni & Friends Brown University Alumni & Friends Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Search Search Menu Date December 15, 2021 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email 6 Takeaways from Women in Washington: Leading in Times of Crisis On December 9, 2021, the Brown Women’s Network welcomed two senior leaders in the Biden administration to discuss the evolving role of women in Washington and what it means to lead in times of uncertainty. As part of the 130 Years of Women at Brown yearlong celebration, the Brown Women’s Network recently hosted nearly 150 virtual attendees for an event with Suzanne Goldberg '85, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Strategic Operations and Outreach, U.S. Office for Civil Rights and Taryn Williams '02, Assistant Secretary of Disability Employment Policy, U.S. Department of Labor. In a discussion moderated by Susan Moffitt, Associate Professor of Political Science and International and Public Affairs at Brown University, the pair discussed the critical role that women play in Washington, as well as what it means to be pursuing issues of civil rights and labor equity during a time of such intense political division. Watch the full recording: https://www.youtube.com/embed/tNp2qdLnTqM Dec. 9 Event Recording Senior leaders in the Biden administration explore the role of women in government and how to navigate times of uncertainty and political division. Some highlights from the policymakers’ insightful discussion: "Leadership is about [a] commitment to constant learning...approaching the work with humility…I don't know everything, and I want to know. I'm open to hearing the views of others." —Suzanne Goldberg "One of the incredible things about Brown is meeting other people from Brown... and finding those you want to continue the conversation with. I'm always invigorated when I find myself in conversations with alumni." —Suzanne Goldberg "I strongly advocate for work-life balance. As someone who lives with multiple chronic conditions, if I don't do it for myself, my body will." —Taryn Williams "Leadership is...a skill and an art that someone can always grow. I would characterize my leadership as being highly participatory... I put very strong emphasis on inclusion of various perspectives." —Taryn Williams "Never lose sight of the bigger picture that you're fighting for." —Taryn Williams "Remember to take it one step at a time, and I certainly learned that during the pandemic when everything has been shifting so quickly." —Taryn Williams The views expressed in this video do not necessarily represent those of Brown University. This event was presented by the Brown Women’s Network and co-sponsored by the Pembroke Center and Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs. Also: Read our "5 Questions with a Brunonian" with Taryn Williams '02. Related Links Alumni Event Calendar Brown Women's Network Women's Voices Amplified podcast Tags Alumni Brown Women's Network Careers Community COVID-19 Featured Service Related News Alumni & Friends Brown unveils name of new performing arts center May 25, 2022 Named in recognition of a generous gift from Frayda Lindemann and to honor her late husband George Lindemann Sr., The Lindemann Performing Arts Center is set to open its doors in 2023 Read Article Open details for Brown unveils name of new performing arts center Alumni & Friends 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 May 24, 2022 Supportive parents and a balanced life are keys to success, according to this product engineer, entrepreneur, and Knead doughnut aficionado. Read Article Open details for 5 Questions for a Brunonian: Recent Grad and Engineer Matt Lo ’18 ScM’19 Alumni & Friends Reimagining history through radical art May 18, 2022 The Haus of Glitter—including Matt Garza ’11, Abbi Page ’22, and Becky Bass ’13—are making change through the power of performance. Read Article Open details for Reimagining history through radical art Quick Navigation MAKE A GIFT Communities & Interests Volunteer Events Benefits Giving Stories Footer Navigation About myBrown Login Brown.edu Contact Us Social Navigation Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Linkedin Social Media © Brown University / Providence, RI 02912 / +1 (401) 863-2374 Brown University Alumni & Friends For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Communities & Interests Regional Brown Clubs Classes Affinity Groups Seniors & Recent Grads Graduate & Medical Alumni Parents & Families Volunteer Opportunities Tools & Resources Recognition Events Events Calendar Campus Dance Reunions Medical Reunion Weekend Featured University Events Webcasts & Podcasts Benefits Career Resources Travel & Learning Savings & Perks Online Resources Alumni Directory Giving How to Give BrownTogether Campaign Brown Annual Fund Schools, Centers, & Focus Areas Athletics Planned Giving Parent & Family Giving Donor Recognition Make a Gift Stories Alumni Stories Giving Stories Campus News All News & Stories Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About myBrown Login Make a Gift This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search 6 Takeaways from Women in Washington: Leading in Times of Crisis Open details for 6 Takeaways from Women in Washington: Leading in Times of Crisis Bookmark this Page