Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb Giving Giving Frequently Asked Questions Menu Main menu Giving Overview Give Online Planned Giving Gifts That Pay You Income Lead Trusts Assets You Can Give Events Harvard Planned Gift Administration Resources Meet the Staff Contact Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Types of Bequests How to Make a Bequest Benefits of a Bequest Future Use Attorney & Advisor Info Gift Policy Guide Tax Information FAQ Giving Contacts How can I make a gift? How do I make a gift of stock? What is planned giving? What are some types of planned gifts? What are the advantages of donating online? Are international donations accepted? Are donations tax-deductible in the United States? Do donations qualify for tax deductions in other countries? Will I receive a receipt? What if I need a duplicate receipt? What is Harvard's Employer Identification Number (EIN), also known as a Federal Tax Identification Number? How quickly will my donation be processed? How can I find out if my company will match my gift? How do I get my company to match my gift? Can I make a confidential donation? Can I make a gift in honor or in memory of someone? Who can I call if I need help making a gift? How can I make a gift? Online: Make a gift online by following this link. By mail: Harvard University PO Box 419209 Boston, MA 02241-9209 For donors choosing Fedex or UPS: Bank of America Lockbox Services President & Fellows of Harvard College Box 419209 2 Morrissey Blvd MA5-527-02-07 Dorchester, MA 02125 Enclose check payable to: "President and Fellows of Harvard College." In the check's memo section, please designate the allocation of the gift. Examples include: Harvard College Fund Divinity School Annual Fund Business School John A. Smith Scholarship Fund How do I make a gift of stock? You may make a gift of stock through our online form or by contacting the the security gifts team in Alumni & Development Services (ADS): President & Fellows of Harvard College, c/o Alumni & Development Services 124 Mount Auburn Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Attn: Trust Administration Toll-free: 866-845-6596 Fax number: 617-878-6598 Email: donorsecuritygifts@harvard.edu What is planned giving? Planned giving encompasses a variety of philanthropic strategies that help you provide for charity while also advancing your own financial and personal objectives. For more information please visit the Planned Giving page. What are some types of planned gifts? Life Income Gifts: Harvard pays an income stream for life or a term of years. Bequests: Bequests are made primarily through gifts of cash, securities, real estate, and tangible personal property. Retirement Plans: Harvard is designated as a beneficiary of the remainder or a percentage of the remainder of your retirement plan. Other Creative Ways to Give: Charitable lead trusts and other options. For more information on ways to make a planned gift, please contact the Harvard University Planned Giving office at 617-495-4647. What are the advantages of donating online? Online credit card donations is a cost-efficient way for nonprofits to receive donations. Credit card donations allow Harvard University to receive funds faster, without having to spend time processing checks. Donors can also save money on stamps by giving through our secure, online gift form. Are international donations accepted? Yes. Harvard University accepts both checks and credit cards. Are donations tax-deductible in the United States? Yes. (Gift donations only). Do donations qualify for tax deductions in other countries? Yes. (Please seek your own tax counsel regarding the amount). Will I receive a receipt? Anyone who donates a gift of any amount will receive a receipt from Alumni & Development Services. The receipt is generated once the donation has been processed and is mailed to the donor's preferred mail address. What if I need a duplicate receipt? Please submit a request using the Tax Receipt Request Form. What is Harvard's Employer Identification Number (EIN), also known as a Federal Tax Identification Number? 04-2103580 How quickly will my donation be processed? Typically, donations are processed within a week from when it is received by Alumni & Development Services. How can I find out if my company will match my gift? Find out if your or your spouse's employer will match your gift using our Matching Gift Program Search. The Benefits or Human Resources Office of the donor's employer (or the donor's spouse's employer) will be able to provide necessary information on the company's Matching Gift Program and the method the company uses to process matching requests. According to University policy, matching gifts will be credited to the same fund as the donor's original gift, unless: The donor requests otherwise; or The policies of the company prohibit matching gifts to particular funds. How do I get my company to match my gift? A matching gift is when an individual gives to a nonprofit organization and their employer donates an equal or greater amount to the same organization. A matching gift is a great way for a donor to increase his or her contribution to Harvard University. Companies have various methods by which they can submit their matching gift requests to Harvard. These include: paper forms online forms (which the donor can print from the internet) phone verification systems Can I make a confidential donation? Yes. Please let us know if you wish that your gift remain confidential. Can I make a gift in honor or in memory of someone? Yes. Gifts in memory or in honor of an individual can be made during one's lifetime or through bequests. Please indicate this preference while making your gift, and please include honoree's class year, as appropriate. Who can I call if I need help making a gift? If you have questions, you can always call 800-VERITAS (837-4827). Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College