Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month UC Alumni Association » About Us » Privacy Policy Set Navigation title in component Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities UC Alumni Association Privacy Policy UC Alumni Association Privacy Policy & Terms of Use The University of Cincinnati’s Alumni Association’s website is the property of the University of Cincinnati. The Service is intended for official use by University of Cincinnati alumni to stay connected to the university and other alumni. Privacy Policy The University of Cincinnati (UC) believes that your personal information belongs to you. We collect this information when you provide it to us, but do not sell, rent or otherwise disclose personal information to third parties with the exception of our UCAA partners. We may, however, disclose your personal information when required by law or in the good-faith belief that such disclosure is necessary to comply with law. Use and Sharing of Information UC is committed to ensuring your privacy. However, the university may release personal information if required to do so by law, university policy, or contractual obligation. When you provide us with personal data, we may use that information in the following ways: provide you with UC news and events, including such things as upcoming reunions, newsletters, fundraising events, donor recognition, and progress on recent fundraising campaigns; process credit card information to properly bill your account (when applicable); and contact you for purposes connected to UC or our relationship with you. UC may use or disclose information that identifies a specific user in response to a user’s request for, or use of, services provided through UCAA or the UC Foundation. As part of those services, UC may provide the opportunity for users to select specific areas of interest in order to receive news and marketing materials related to those interests. Users are given an opportunity to opt-out of mailings. Links to Other Sites Our website may contain links to other sites. UC is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such websites. Terms of Use Eligibility of Use The University of Cincinnati (UC) Alumni Association website is subject to the terms set forth in these Terms of Use (the ‘Policy’). By using the services, you accept and agree to the terms. UC reserves the right to modify the services, and your continued use of the services, after modifications, indicates your acceptance of the modification and the applicability of the policy. UC assumes no responsibility for any aspect of these services, including but not limited to the timeliness, deletion, mis-delivery, or failure to store any user communication. The University may choose to allow access to the services to non-University entities at its sole discretion in order to perform approved University-related functions. Commitment to Data Security The University of Cincinnati is dedicated to preventing unauthorized data access, maintaining data accuracy, and ensuring the appropriate use of information. We strive to put in place appropriate physical, electronic and managerial safeguards to secure the information we collect online. These security practices are consistent with the policies of the university and with the law and regulatory practices of the State of Ohio. University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top