Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Alumni Association Alumni right arrow down arrow Get Involved right arrow down arrow Update Your Info College Networks right arrow down arrow A&S Alumni right arrow down arrow Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni right arrow down arrow MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni right arrow down arrow DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups right arrow down arrow African American Alumni Affiliate right arrow down arrow 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council Golden Bearcats Society UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club right arrow down arrow Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks right arrow down arrow Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland right arrow down arrow Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus right arrow down arrow Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Events right arrow down arrow Event Calendar right arrow down arrow GoBearcats.com CCM Box Office Bearcats Health Homecoming Alumni Celebration Alumni Week Bearcats at the Ballpark Onyx and Ruby Gala right arrow down arrow Onyx & Ruby Gala Program Dinner with Bearcats Chicagoans for Cincy! Celebration Athletics right arrow down arrow It's AAC Tournament Time, Bearcats! Resources & Perks right arrow down arrow Career Discounts & Perks right arrow down arrow College Savings Diploma Frames License Plate Just for Fun Membership right arrow down arrow Loyal Bearcat Society William Howard Taft Society Scholarships Alumni Travel Program Request a Transcript About Us right arrow down arrow Alumni News Notable Alumni UC Alumni Association Staff right arrow down arrow Jennifer Heisey FAQ Privacy Policy Alumni Engagement Committee Sponsorship Opportunities Donate right arrow down arrow Support UCAA Digital Philanthropy Center Inclusive Excellence right arrow down arrow Black History Month Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Women's History Month Pride Month UC Alumni Association » Get Involved » Interest & Affinity Groups » Golden Bearcats Society Set Navigation title in component Update Your Info College Networks A&S Alumni Friends of Communication Blue Ash Alumni Business Alumni CAHS Alumni MHA Alumni Network CCM Alumni CEAS Alumni CECH Alumni Clermont Alumni DAAP Alumni DAAP '82 Interior Design Reunion Law Alumni Medicine Alumni Nursing Alumni Pharmacy Alumni Interest & Affinity Groups Golden Bearcats Society African American Alumni Affiliate 4A Virtual Black History Trivia Night Inaugural 4A Scholarship Golf Classic Alumni Band GE Bearcats Greek Affairs Alumni Council UC Latino Alumni Network LGBTQ Sigma Sigma Student Alumni Council Wine Club Uncorked: Oakley Wines UnCorked: California vs. France Tasting at The Park Pour UnCorked: LouVino OTR Restaurant and Bar Veterans Women of UC UC Young Professionals 2022 Senior 100 Celebration National Networks Atlanta Boston Central Florida Charlotte Chicago Cleveland Cleveland: Bearcats at the Ballpark Columbus Columbus: 'Cats at the Crew Columbus: ‘Cats at the Clippers Dallas Dayton Denver Detroit Houston Indianapolis Los Angeles Milwaukee Nashville New York City Northern New Jersey Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland San Diego San Francisco Seattle Southeast Florida St. Louis Tampa Bay Toledo Twin Cities Washington D.C. / Baltimore International Social Media Champions New Grads Refer a Student Summer Camp for Kids Golden Bearcats Society 50+ Years since Graduation The University of Cincinnati enjoys a rich history and multitudes of traditions that exemplify the Bearcats spirit. The UC Alumni Association recognizes that those histories and traditions are passed down from generation to generation by those who walked the campus of our beloved alma mater for almost 200 years. To honor those who have and continue to uphold our institution’s alma mater, the Golden Bearcats Society (GBS) was established to represent all alumni who have celebrated 50 years since graduating from UC. Each spring during Alumni Weekend, the UC Alumni Association hosts the Golden Bearcats Society Luncheon to acknowledge all members of the Society, as well as induct graduates from a half-century ago. Golden Bearcats Society Reunion Saturday, April 9, 2022 10:30 a.m. – 2 p.m. Graduate Cincinnati Hotel (formerly the Kingsgate Marriott) 151 Goodman Drive, Cincinnati OH 45219 $50 per person Register The UC Alumni Association is welcoming Bearcats who graduated more than 50 years ago back to campus for our first in-person Golden Bearcats Society Reunion in two years! Alumni and guests are invited to enjoy this celebratory event with your classmates and others who graduated more than five decades ago. During the event, we will also be inducting the Class of 1972 into the Golden Bearcats Society, while also acknowledging the Classes of 1970 and 1971, as they were not able to be formally inducted in person due to the pandemic. Registration for the reunion is $50 and includes brunch, adult beverages, entertainment, and covered parking. Please contact Justin Gibson, Program Director for Diversity Outreach and Engagement, at (513) 556-4312 or email Justin Gibson for questions. COVID-19 Update With the health and safety of our UC family foremost in mind, alumni relations activity of the University of Cincinnati Alumni Association will remain limited to virtual platforms for the time being. We will continue to follow the guidance from government and health organizations as we all look forward to coming together in person when we can. Thank you for your ongoing patience and understanding. In the meantime, if you have any suggestions for digital alumni experiences, please share them with Justin Gibson, Program Director for Diversity Outreach and Engagement, at Justin.Gibson@uc.edu or (513) 556-4312. For more information about UC and COVID-19, please visit UC’s public health website. Archived Golden Bearcats Society class pages right arrow down arrow Class of 1970 FAQs What is the Golden Bearcats Society? right arrow down arrow The Golden Bearcats Society is one of the university’s most treasured communities of alumni. All UC graduates of 50 or more years make up the Society. These alumni are the keepers of our traditions, the stewards of our alma mater’s memories. Our Golden Bearcats have paved the way for subsequent generations, leading us into the third century of academic, vocational, and civic success. How do I become a member of the Golden Bearcats Society? right arrow down arrow All alumni who reach the 50th anniversary of receiving their degree from the University of Cincinnati automatically become members of the Society. Each spring, the UCAA holds an induction ceremony for the newest class, where they receive their pin commemorating the milestone. Can’t make the induction ceremony? Don’t worry, you’ll still be a member of the Society! Are there dues to be a member of the Golden Bearcats Society? Do I have to give at a certain level to the university? right arrow down arrow The answer is no on both questions. Rather than asking alumni to pay dues to the society, members are encouraged to give to the areas of the university that inspires them. Whether it is to your college, athletics, or scholarships – we can help point you in the right direction if needed. What does the Golden Bearcats Society do? right arrow down arrow As of right now, the Society meets for an annual reunion each spring during Alumni Weekend (early April). During that event, members of the graduating class who is celebrating their 50th anniversary are inducted into the Golden Bearcats Society. And of course we have a great time doing it! Going forward, we are actively looking at how we can engage our Golden Bearcats throughout the year, not just around the reunion time. Many topics are on the table, from mentoring students to a class gift to participating in Convocation and Commencement. If you’d like to share your thoughts on the Golden Bearcats Society, please contact Justin Gibson, Associate Director of Diversity Outreach and Engagement or call 513.556.4312. Find the Golden Bearcats on Social Media Facebook Justin Gibson, Bus '05 Program Director of Alumni & Donor Experience, Diversity Outreach and Engagement 513-556-4312 gibsonjn@foundation.uc.edu University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) alumni@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Alumni Association 176 W. McMillan Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45219 513-556-4344 (main line) 877-4-UC-ALUM (toll free) 513-556-3011 (fax) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top