Skip to main content Skip to footer Skip to main navigation Search Yale Alumni Logo Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Search Site Search Your Alumni Association Expand Sub-Navigation What We Do Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion YAA Leadership Staff Alumni Benefits News & Features Events Expand Sub-Navigation Find Events Yale College Reunions Yale Day of Service Create with IMPACT Assembly & Convocation Virtual YAA Groups Expand Sub-Navigation About Groups Find Your Group Search Graduate & Professional Schools Search Interest Groups Search Regional Clubs Search Yale College Classes Connect Expand Sub-Navigation Networking & Careers Connect Online Recent Grads Current Seniors Current Students Volunteer Expand Sub-Navigation Get Involved Service to Community Toolkits for Volunteers Volunteer Recognition Learn Expand Sub-Navigation Learn Through Travel Learn on Campus Learn Near You Learn Online Alumni Directory Calendar Yale Alumni College Jump to… Yale Alumni College Mission Courses: Summer 2022 Summer Trip Past Courses Testimonials Newsletter Eve Berenblum Goldberg Scholarship Contact Us Yale Alumni College Yale Alumni College (YACOL) is run by alumni, for alumni, and offers small seminar, in-person classes in a variety of locations throughout the U.S. This program presents a unique learning environment for Yale alumni, family, and friends, including: Exceptional faculty (either Yale professors or Yale alumni who teach in the area) Highly motivated classmates who share a passion for lifelong learning Small seminar format to encourage participation and discussion, with no more than 25 students per class Cultural outings with students from all classes to promote social engagement and enhance the learning experience Since its inception in 2011, Yale Alumni College has welcomed more than 2,000 alumni, family, and friends, and featured more than 150 courses online and at nine different locations, including Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, New Haven, New York, Princeton, Washington, D.C., and more. Want to hear more from Yale Alumni College? Join our mailing list. Mission Yale Alumni College is an educational program that is open to all Yale alumni and your families and friends. This program provides a way for you to reconnect with Yale in a far deeper and more meaningful way – through a seminar setting with the vigor of a Yale classroom and the experience and wisdom of 20 or so fellow scholars. So whether you want to rediscover a subject from long ago or finally take that course you never had time for while at Yale, Yale Alumni College can offer that opportunity. Back to Top Courses: Summer 2022 J.S. Bach and His Musical World Professor Markus Rathey June 9 – July 14 5:30 – 7 p.m. ET Polarized America Professor Mary Habeck June 13 – July 18 11 a.m. – 1 p.m. ET Wars in the Head Professor Mary Habeck June 14 – July 19 11 a.m. – 1 p.m. ET Jane Eyre and Rebecca Professor Priscilla Gilman June 21 – July 26 6 – 7:30 p.m. ET Jane Eyre and Rebecca Professor Priscilla Gilman June 21 – July 26 7:45 – 9:15 p.m. ET Back to Top Summer Trip Glimmerglass Opera Experience Cooperstown, NY August 11-15, 2022 Double Occupancy: $3,150 per person | Single: $4,450 per person Back to Top Past Courses Looking for a sampling of past Yale Alumni College courses? We have them here for you, broken down by subject area and with notes about location and professors. Back to Top Testimonials "The program is an excellent way of engaging Yalies in selected locations with some of the best professors in the world. They are the world experts in their fields. It is a great way for Yale to reach out to its alums with something very special." -John Wellemeyer '59 (Fall 2018, Princeton) "In many ways, Yale Alumni College is the most ideal form of learning: The professors are brilliant and passionate about their subjects, discussions are informed by classmates’ life experience and mature reflections, and the atmosphere is pleasant and stress-free. Always a source of great joy, Yale Alumni College has been especially uplifting in 2020." -Laurie Treuhaft (Fall 2020, Online) "The short story course I took as part of the Yale Alumni College Program was in my opinion the ideal alumni activity: I learned a great deal, met alums I didn't already know, engaged in meaningful conversation and left each evening very proud of being a Yalie. I cannot wait to take another class." -Julia Levy ’81 (Spring 2017, Atlanta) "The course exceeded my expectations. The professor was excellent – she not only was a deep subject matter expert on the topic, she also did a great job facilitating the discussion. I appreciate the opportunity to have this caliber of learning and intellectual discussion with other alumni." -Ann Manikas ’93 (Fall 2018, Chicago) "I highly recommend the class. The amount reading for each class was reasonable, the professor was really engaging, [and] the discussions were extremely interesting both from a strategic thinking and historical standpoint. I would sign up again without hesitation." -Anthony Allard ’07 (Fall 2018, Washington D.C.) “These relatively short, insightful courses are deeply enriching, even – or especially – without exams or grades! Learning for learning’s sake is a pure joy.” -Vincent Kerr (Fall 2020, Online) Back to Top Newsletter Keep up with what is happening with Yale Alumni College. View our latest newsletter. Back to Top Eve Berenblum Goldberg Scholarship The board of Yale Alumni College is delighted to announce that our founder and emeritus chairman, Marv Berenblum ’56, has established a scholarship fund in memory of his daughter, Eve Berenblum Goldberg. We invite our BOLD alumni (Bulldogs of the Last Decade) to apply for our scholarship and encourage everyone who would like to donate to support the fund. Back to Top Contact Us To learn more about Yale Alumni College, registration, or course materials, please contact Sharon Small, Senior Administrative Assistant, Lifelong Learning and Travel, or call her at 203-436-9213. Follow us on Facebook at Yale Alumni College. Back to Top Site Footer Visit Campus Give to Yale Contact Us Help Center Yale Alumni Logo PO Box 209010 New Haven, CT 06520-9010 (203) 432-2586 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube About Help Center Accessibility Privacy © 2022 Yale Alumni Association Yale University Yale Athletics YaleNews Yale Alumni Magazine Jump to top of page