Skip to main content Cornell University type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" type="dropShadow" x="0" y="0" size="10" spread="0" color="0,0,0,0.15" blend="normal" Alumni, parents, and friends Alumni Parents and families Students Services Cornellians Search Close Search menu close Come back Connect Volunteer Learn and travel Events News Snack bar Giving to Cornell Updates for our alumni community Alumni Affairs and Development Recruitment Fair Meet our leadership team Office of Alumni Affairs Northeast Corridor West Coast International Alumni Relations International Alumni Relations Once a Cornellian, always a Cornellian. Near or far. Attendees at the Asia-Pacific Leadership Conference 2017, April 7-9, Hong Kong Photo: Trendy Professional Lab International Alumni Relations International Alumni Communities Downloads No matter the distance from Ithaca, a Cornellian is a Cornellian for life, and we are proud to have alumni in all corners of the globe. Our mission is to help you stay connected with Cornell even after you leave New York and to carry that Big Red Spirit with you everywhere. Approximately seven percent of our alumni live outside North America, and with almost one quarter of 2018’s accepted students—including undergraduate, graduate, and professional—coming from abroad, our community of international alumni continues to grow. The reach of the Cornell network is ever expanding and powerful. So keep in touch! We want to highlight your successes, so please share your upcoming activity with us. We love seeing pictures and hearing about who came. Send us your stories and we’ll include them in the international newsletter, Noteworthy: News About and For International Cornellians,which goes out every two weeks. Our international alumni volunteers are some of the most active and engaged alumni and generously give both philanthropically and through their time. There are many ways for our international alumni to be involved— joining your local Cornell Club, serving as a member of the Cornell Alumni Admission Ambassador Network (CAAAN) or making a gift to the university are just a few examples. The International Alumni Relations team is here to provide programmatic and organizational support to your local Cornell Club/Group and help Cornellians stay connected with the University and each other. Contact us for more information! Looking for events in your area? Visit the alumni events page and search for your location! If you would like to contact International Alumni Relations, please email alumniaffairs-international@cornell.edu. Alumni news around the world Alumni news Plant lover and Earth advocate April 21, 2022 Learning S is for scarce April 19, 2022 Students Sustainable fashions at the Beyond Waste Prom March 30, 2022 More news Cornell Asia-Pacific Leadership Conference See more about APLC APLC banner Photo: Chris Kelly Sign up for Noteworthy News about and for international Cornellians Subscribe Photo: Jason Koski/Cornell Marketing Group Stay in touch with the Cornell community What we can do for you We’re here to help you stay connected to Cornell: update your contact information, request transcripts, get email forwarding, get your NetID, and pay class dues. See all services Ways to connect Clubs Classes Network Cornell near you Alumni directory Division of Alumni Affairs and Development 130 E. Seneca Street, Suite 400 Ithaca, NY 14850 Give Online Now Contact us Privacy Report an issue Accessibility © Cornell University, 2017–2022