Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters FSU Alumni Association Toggle navigation Site Menu Membership Join Today Renew Your Membership Membership Overview Why Become a Member? Member Loyalty Member Perks Reward Zone VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks Alumni Directory My oneFSU Dashboard Students Student Alumni Association Join SAA SAA Membership Perks My oneFSU Dashboard Honors Alumni Ambassadors Award Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Legacy Scholarship Grads Made Good The Inspire Award Community Alumni Networks Alumni Career Services Events Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Submit Class Notes Travel Programs VIRES Magazine Alumni Travel Echoes: The FSU Alumni Podcast Webinar Resources Virtual Alumni Resources Support Join, Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Give to the Legacy Scholarship Give to the FSU Alumni Association Give to the FSU Alumni Association Endowment Give to FSU Academic Programs Purchase a Westcott Plaza Brick Support the Alumni Ambassadors Fund About About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Annual Highlights Alumni Center & Events Employment Frequently Asked Questions Financial Information Map and Directions Sponsorship Opportunities FSU Alumni Center Toggle navigation SECTION MENU About Us About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Annual Highlights Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions About the FSU Alumni Association FSU Alumni Association History In May 1909, twenty graduates from the newly created Florida State College for Women established the FSCW Alumni Association. Later in 1920, the first Alumni Club was formed in New York City. Alumnae living throughout Florida followed suit, creating "Flastacowo" clubs in their hometowns, providing the foundation for today's Seminole Club network. During the Association's early years, interested volunteers handled the necessary work until 1929 when the services of a part-time executive secretary were required. Alumni activities dramatically increased, and a full-time secretary was employed in1930. In 1947, Florida State University was established, creating a new co-educational institution. Soon, additional athletics teams were created. In response, the Alumni Association launched Seminole Boosters, Inc. in an effort to provide private support for the Athletic Department. This organization would remain under the umbrella of the Alumni Association until 1974. During its early years, the Association was located in the Longmire Alumni Building, named for Miss Rowena Longmire, the first executive director. As FSU continued to grow, so did Alumni Association activities and services, including the formation of the Seminole Club network, the Emeritus Society and the 50-year Class Reunions. The Alumni Association eventually outgrew the Longmire Building and relocated to the University Center in February 1997. In 2004, the Alumni Association moved into an Alumni Center encompassing a remodeled Colonial-style home, which served as the residence for eight past FSU presidents, and a facility housing staff offices, conference rooms and a grand ballroom. The new Alumni Center is adjacent to campus on West Tennessee Street and still remains to be the home of the FSU Alumni Association today. The year, 2009, marked The Florida State University Alumni Association's 100th anniversary. This great moment in the Association's history was celebrated by hosting 100 events throughout the 2009 year. These 100 events included a time capsule dedication. In honor of the 100th anniversary the classes of 1952, 1953, 1954, 1956 and 1959 donated items for the time capsule, which will remain underground in the Alumni Center Courtyard until the year 2109- the Alumni Association's 200th anniversary. Our Mission Advancing our university's greatness while enriching the lives of the Seminole family. Our Vision To unite the Seminole family and advance FSU's position among the nation's top public universities. Our Values Tradition Leadership Family Spirit Greatness OFFICIAL PARTNERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Their generous support allows the FSU Alumni Association to provide programs, services and events to you. MEMBERS Renew or Upgrade Your Membership Member Perks Reward Zone Upcoming Events VIRES Magazine Westcott Plaza Bricks STUDENTS Student Alumni Association Join SAA Benefits of SAA Membership Legacy Scholarship Westcott Plaza Bricks HONORS Young Alumni Awards The Bernard F. Sliger Award Circle of Gold Grads Made Good Legacy Scholarship Notable Noles The Inspire Award COMMUNITY Alumni Directory Alumni Networks Events Football HQ Seminole Clubs and Chapters Social Media Travel Programs ABOUT US About the FSU Alumni Association Board of Directors Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions Sponsorship Opportunities ALUMNI CENTER Catering Event Space Frequently Asked Questions Map and Directions FSU Alumni Association 1030 W. Tennessee St. Tallahassee, FL 32304 Email Us (850) 644-2761 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright Close