Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Help Welcome to the Harvard alumni help site. Below, please find a list of help topics. If you can't find what you are looking for, you are invited to contact us for assistance. Contact the HAA Help Desk View the General HAA FAQ Menu Help Overview Site Access Email Preferences Email Forwarding Email Forwarding Preference Management Forwarding Problems Spam Forwarding FAQ Directory Search Profile Update Message Board Red Book Class Notes Text Messaging General FAQ Library Resources FAQ Links and Contacts Site Access Help with HarvardKey, accessing the alumni website, and information on various other Harvard affiliate sites Email Preferences Help with updating Harvard email communication preferences Email Forwarding Help with forwarding setup, troubleshooting, and information on spam control Profile Update Help with updating your information online Message Board Help with posting job opportunities, current events, and other bulletin announcements Red Book Helpful tip and writing prompts Class Notes Help and information with Alumni.Harvard class notes, and class notes in alumni magazines Giving FAQ Information about giving to Harvard Text Messaging Help and information about receiving text messages from Alumni Affairs & Development General FAQ Common question about Havard alumni services Library Resources FAQ Information on library resources available to alumni Links and Contacts Where to go and whom to contact for a variety of questions Contact Us Need to get in touch with the Harvard Alumni Association? Call or Email You can reach us by phone at 800-823-2478 or 617-496-0559 (M–F, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. [ET]) or by email at haa_alumnihelp@harvard.edu. Email the HAA Alumni Help Desk You can reach the HAA Online Help Desk by filling out the HAA Help Desk contact form. Go to Help Desk Form Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College