Skip to main content Princeton University Alumni Menu Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Search Main navigation Our Community Alumni Association Alumni Council Executive Committee Awards Our Stories Connect Goin’ Back Travel with Princeton Journeys Continued Learning Volunteer Opportunities Affinity Groups Annual Giving Arts Athletics Class and Reunions Entrepreneurship Graduate Alumni Interview Prospective Students Mentorship/Professional Development Princeton Prize in Race Relations Region Resources Annual Giving Class Region Reunions Give Annual Giving Gift Planning Thanks to You How to Make a Gift Venture Forward Campaign Impact Access & Affordability American Studies Annual Giving Athletics Bioengineering Data Science Environment Service Utility links Contact Events Reunions TigerNet Make a Gift Give Your gifts to Princeton create transformative experiences and support excellence in teaching and research. Together, we create the future. WATCH: Yeh College Major gift from Jaimie and James Yeh ’87 names residential college and supports undergraduate expansion James Yeh ’87 and his wife, Jaimie Yeh, have made a major gift in the Venture Forward campaign, naming one of the new residential colleges at Princeton University. Many Ways to Give You can give through... Annual Giving Gift Planning Capital Giving International Giving Friends Groups Corporate and Foundation Giving Moving Forward Together, we make it possible. Annual Giving sustains and enhances the University's distinctive academic programs and brings together Princetonians, parents, and friends of all generations. Learn More Planned gifts such as trusts and annuities support the University and provide income to you or your family. You can also benefit Princeton through your will. For alumni approaching their 50th Reunion and beyond, the Annual Giving Legacy program enables alumni to obtain major reunion class credit with life income gifts at the requisite level. Learn More Capital and endowment funds from generous donors are vital to ensuring that the University will continue to fulfill its mission of teaching, research and service for generations to come. Learn More If you live outside the United States and are considering a gift to Princeton, we may be able to provide you with details such as fees, basic tax information, and partner organizations that can help process your gift. Learn More Princeton’s athletic teams, art museum, library and other campus organizations depend on the support of Friends groups to sustain their excellence. Learn More Princeton’s partnerships with corporations and foundations help transform theories and research that begin in classrooms and laboratories into real-world projects that can make a difference to society. Learn More Gifts From a boxed lunch to a dormitory: Margaret and Robert Hariri help more students dream big Meet the Hariris An Affordable Education Through your support of scholarships, fellowships and Annual Giving, you make Princeton’s unparalleled commitment to access, affordability and student success possible. See the Impact Your Impact Your gifts make an immediate impact for students and for the research that seeks to solve the world's most pressing problems. University honors Judy and Carl Ferenbach ’64 at High Meadows Environmental Institute dedication Once a high scorer, Marty Mannion ’81 is now tallying up the assists Venture Forward gift launches initiative on blockchain and decentralization of power Annual Giving applauds volunteer achievements The spirit of service drives Annual Giving campaign Read All Impact Stories Image New challenges await us, and the path to a brighter tomorrow points forward together. Together We Make it Possible. Learn more Your gift to Princeton supports the University’s strategic priorities and its mission to be in the service of humanity. Gift Planning There are many ways you can make a gift that costs you nothing today — or that helps you make a tax-wise investment in your future and Princeton’s. Learn More Annual Giving Forward Together Gift Planning Understand Your Options Thanks to You See the Impact Princeton University Alumni Footer Contact About Events Alumni Services Make a Gift Princeton University Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Privacy menu Accessibility Advancement Data Privacy Policy Social menu Facebook Twitter Linkedin Instagram