Skip to main content Community Login Register My Community Logout Community Giving Programs & Events Travel College Graduate Schools Edit Profile Post a Message Have questions? Contact the HAA. Looking for a classmate? Login with HarvardKey to search the Alumni Directory, Class Notes, Message Boards, and more. New to the community? Register today and claim your key! Quick Search Search * Results displayed are from the public alumni site only. Quick search does not include names from the Alumni Directory. Community My Profile Message Board Alumni Class Notes Clubs & SIGs Volunteer Stories Careers & Networking Alumni Services Harvard Board Nominations About the HAA Help Giving Give Online Planned Giving Stocks & Matching Gifts Bequests Gift Policy Guide FAQ Programs & Events All Events Featured Programs Online Learning Travel Trips Travel Talks Lecture Series Virtual Guides Travel Leaders Modes of Travel Activity Level Ratings Travel Resources Join Our Mailing List College Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning College Seniors Undergraduates Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Alumni Volunteers Graduate Schools Breadcrumb College Volunteer Fundraising Thank you for your interest in volunteering to support Harvard’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences Menu Main menu College Overview Harvard College Fund About the HCF Annual Giving Reunion Campaigns Student Philanthropy Associates Parent Engagement Programs Gift Planning Gifts of Appreciated Securities IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Bequests/Estate Gifts Gifts That Pay You Income Charitable Lead Trusts Gifts of Real Estate Donors and Their Gifts Request a Gift Illustration Meet the FAS Gift Planning Team College Seniors Undergraduates Student-Alumni Engagement Events Awards and Scholarships Classes Reunions HAA Crimson Society Class Reports Chief Marshal Volunteer Fundraising Harvard College Fund Graduate School Fund Volunteer Resources Alumni Volunteers Join our engaged community of nearly 1,500 volunteers to support Harvard’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences and stay connected to Cambridge even if you live far away. Whether you are an alumnus/a of Harvard College, Radcliffe, or the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, a College parent or grandparent, or a current student excited about next year’s Senior Gift campaign, your contribution of time and resources is essential to our fundraising efforts. We provide training and support for all of our volunteers and have created several online resources to help you get started. To learn more, please contact your gift officer or one of the individuals listed below. Reunion Campaigns Help lead your class fundraising effort as a class co-chair, vice chair, or participation chair, or join your class participation or leadership gift committees. Then celebrate with your classmates at your spring or fall Reunion on campus. Learn more about reunion campaigns and contact your class officer to get involved. Annual Giving Stay involved with your Class during non-reunion years as a participation volunteer or by raising leadership funds through Associates giving, which focuses on annual immediate-use gifts. Learn more about Annual Giving or contact your class officer. Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs As a Harvard parent or grandparent, you can help raise immediate-use funds that directly benefit current students. Learn more online about the Harvard College Fund Parent Engagement Programs, or contact Cara Mia Bruncati at 617-496-3819 to make a leadership gift or to volunteer. Graduate School Fund Inspire others to support the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences by giving flexible, immediate-use funds for the recruitment and training of graduate students. Learn more online about the Graduate School Fund, or contact Stephanie Skedros at 617-495-1629. Senior Gift Help educate seniors about the importance and impact of alumni giving, and encourage classmates to make their first gift to the College. Learn more about Harvard's annual Senior Gift Campaign, and contact Molly Stansik at 617-496-9545 or molly_stansik@harvard.edu to get involved. Contact Us For more information on volunteering with the Harvard College Fund, please contact your class gift officer, HCF Parent Engagement Programs, or the Graduate School Fund. Social Media Twitter Youtube Facebook LinkedIn Instagram Get Help Contact the alumni service desk Claim your HarvardKey Get help searching the alumni directory View all contacts View all help pages About This Site Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Feedback Go to Harvard.edu Admin Profile © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College