Skip To Main Content The Clemson Ring Update Info Give Alumni Benefits Search About Board of Directors Staff Something In These Hills The Echo What We Do Clemson Traditions 2020-2021 Annual Report (pdf) Get Involved Affinity Groups Find a Clemson Club Join TigerLink Tigers On The Move Volunteer Opportunities Make a Gift Events Event Calendar Alumni Career Fairs Alumni Spring Break Away Game Alumni Events Clemson Alumni Golf Tournament Fall Band Party Golden Tiger Reunion Homecoming Meal Clubs Prowl & Growl Senior Week Ring Ceremony Ring Week Tigertown Bound Yard Signs Tigers on Tour Virtual Engagement Virtual Lunch Club Welcome Back Festival Awards Alumni Master Teacher Cooperative Extension Distinguished Public Service Award Distinguished Service Award Honorary Alumni Outstanding Research Award The Roaring10 Volunteer of the Year Career Services Alumna/Alumnus Current Student/Recent Alum Employer Faculty Member Resources Club and Group Brand Site Club and Group Leader Toolkit Email Calendar EU Consent Official Transcripts Reconnect to Clemson Communications Request Forms Update Contact Information Use the Alumni Brand Photography Senior Week 2022 You are here: Home1 / Uncategorized2 / Student Alumni Council3 / Senior Week 2022 The Clemson Alumni Association and the Student Alumni Association are excited to host Senior Week 2022 Monday, April 25th through Saturday, April 30th 2022. All students graduating in May, August and December of 2022 are invited to join us for this week-long celebration. Considered a “bucket list” of Clemson traditions, the Student Alumni Association has a week full of events, activities and gifts for the class of 2022 to enjoy. The week of events includes: Date Time Event Location Friday (4/29) 8:00pm – 11:00pm Senior Ball – TICKETED EVENT Purchase Tickets Here There will be food, a live DJ, and a cash bar! You MUST be 21 years old to attend. Make sure to bring both your Clemson student ID and your driver’s license! Owen Pavilion at the Madren Center Saturday (4/30) 1:00pm- 3:00pm Rub the Rock Enjoy some ice cream from ’55 Exchange/Spill the Beans/King of Pops. Have your photo taken with Howard’s Rock. Indoor Practice Facility Don’t Miss Out on Your FREE Tiger Paw Stamped $2 Bill and IPTAY Membership! So that we can mail you your Tiger Paw stamped $2 bill and FREE IPTAY membership, you must complete the form below. BONUS: Once you complete the form, please show the confirmation email to the Clemson team outside of Littlejohn after graduation and receive your FREE Clemson Class of 2022 yard sign. The opportunities listed below are intended for May 2022 Clemson University graduates only. The information provided below will be confirmed with the official list of May 2022 graduates to confirm you are a graduate. Degrees will be conferred upon all those who meet graduation requirements at a later date. The Clemson Alumni Association, the Clemson Forever Annual Giving Office and IPTAY would like to celebrate the May 2022 graduates and this day by offering you the opportunity to partake in three special Clemson traditions! Receiving your FREE Tiger Paw Stamped $2 Bill Saying “YES” to Accepting a Gift in Your Honor Supporting Your Tigers with your FREE IPTAY Membership (May 2022 graduates only) All you have to do is complete the form below and say “YES, I want to participate!” Full details about each tradition offer can be found below. Say YES to all three Young Alumni Traditions now! YES, I want to participate in all three Young Alumni Traditions! No, I do not want to participate Name* First Middle Last CUID* Phone What is your birth date? Date Format: MM slash DD slash YYYY Email address* Please include the email address where we can most easily reach you after graduation if we have questions about mailing your Tiger Paw stamped $2 bill. If you plan to discontinue using your g.clemson.edu email address, please provide the alternate email address you plan to use. Address where your Tiger Paw stamped $2 bill can be mailed.* Street Address Address Line 2 City State / Province / Region ZIP / Postal Code What is the month of your graduation? May 2022 Will you be moving to a brand new city? Want to connect with other Clemson Young Alumni in your new city? Yes No Congratulations on moving to your new city! The Clemson Alumni Association would like to connect you with an official Clemson Club and Clemson Young Alumni group in your new hometown. To do so, please tell us where you plan to move. Clemson Clubs are assigned based on zip codes so we will begin sharing with you the local events in that zip code once you update your mailing address. Street Address Address Line 2 City State / Province / Region ZIP / Postal Code CAPTCHA View All Upcoming Events Find a Club in your Area Virtual Engagement Opportunities Event Photography Reconnect to Clemson Clemson Alumni Association An open-membership, nonproﬁt organization since its inception in 1896, the Clemson Alumni Association exists to connect you with your fellow Tigers and with your alma mater. Clemson Alumni Center 109 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631-3006 (864) 656-2345 cualumni@clemson.edu Reconnect Affinity Groups Career Services Clubs Events The Echo Volunteer Updates Quicklinks About Alumni Benefits Awards Clemson Ring Get Involved Give Resources Alumni Network Alumni Directory Clemson Tigers Clemson World EU Consent Fan Shop Tigers on the Move Update Your Info