Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Registrar Registrar right arrow down arrow Academic Calendars right arrow down arrow Summer Semester 2022 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Fall Semester 2022 Calendars right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Academic Year Calendars right arrow down arrow 2020–2021 2021–2022 2022–2023 Academic Calendar Policies right arrow down arrow Religious Observances and Class Attendance Reading Days Academic Planning Calendars Past Calendars right arrow down arrow Spring Semester 2022 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Exam Schedule Fall Semester 2021 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Exam Schedule Summer Semester 2021 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Spring Semester 2021 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Exam Schedule Fall Semester 2020 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Exam Schedule Summer Semester 2020 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Spring Semester 2020 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Exam Schedule Fall Semester 2019 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Exam Schedule Registration right arrow down arrow How to Guide right arrow down arrow Video Tutorials Class Permissions Waitlists Catalyst and Canvas Confirm Enrollment Submit My Add/Drop Form Visiting Students Cross Registration right arrow down arrow Greater Cincinnati Collegiate Connection (GC3) right arrow down arrow GC3 Procedure for Visiting Students GC3 Procedure for University of Cincinnati Students Southwestern Ohio Council for Higher Education (SOCHE) right arrow down arrow SOCHE Procedure for Visiting Students SOCHE Procedure for University of Cincinnati Students Form Completion Requests right arrow down arrow In–School Deferment Completion Requests Verify Enrollment for Unemployment Tuition Refunds Registration Policies right arrow down arrow Adding, Dropping, and Withdrawing From Classes Canceled Classes Credit Hour Definition Disenrollment of Class Registrations for Unmet Course Requisites Early Registration Appointments for Continuing Students Undergraduate Student Class Levels Tuition Overload Policy FAQs—Registration Personal Info Changes right arrow down arrow Ohio Residency & Reciprocity right arrow down arrow Ohio Residency Application Indiana Reciprocity and Metropolitan Rates for Tuition Purposes right arrow down arrow Indiana Reciprocity & Metropolitan Rate Applications Kentucky Reciprocity and Metropolitan Rates for Tuition Purposes right arrow down arrow Kentucky Reciprocity & Metropolitan Rate Applications Residency and Reciprocity Frequently Asked Questions Selective Service Registration Program Changes & Readmissions right arrow down arrow Apply for Readmission to UC Change Existing Major to a New Major Add a Major Change Major Specialization Drop an Existing Major Name Changes Sex Marker Updates Self–Service Updates UCID: Your Unique UC Identifier FERPA and Privacy right arrow down arrow Update Your FERPA Preferences FERPA and the Student's Right to Review Records Records Privacy and Release Information for Parents European Union Data Protection Regulation Grades and Transcripts right arrow down arrow Transcript Ordering right arrow down arrow Transcripts Frequently Asked Questions Transcript Explanation Key Grading Scales and Definitions Grading Scales Effective from September 1968 to December 1998 Ohio Credit When It's Due Initiative and Transcript Release Authorization Self-Service Verifications Grade Replacements right arrow down arrow Grade Replacement Application Grade Replacement Policy Academic Residency Academic Fresh Start right arrow down arrow Academic Fresh Start Application Academic Fresh Start Policy First–Year Covid Reboot right arrow down arrow 2021 First–Year Covid Reboot Application Academic Standing right arrow down arrow Academic Standing Appeals Information Grade Changes Third Party Verifications Graduation right arrow down arrow Apply to Graduate Application Deadlines After Commencement Certified Electronic Credentials right arrow down arrow CeDiploma Features Credential Validation CeCredential Frequently Asked Questions Credential Service Indicator Replacement Diplomas Notarizations & Apostilles Graduation and Degree Policies right arrow down arrow Latin Honors Posthumous Degree Policy Double Majors and Double Degrees Retroactive Certification of University of Cincinnati Degree FAQs—Graduation & Diploma Faculty & Staff Resources Contacts Home » About UC » Office of the University Registrar » Grades and Transcripts » Transcript Ordering Set Navigation title in component Transcript Ordering Transcripts Frequently Asked Questions Transcript Explanation Key Grading Scales and Definitions Grading Scales Effective from September 1968 to December 1998 Ohio Credit When It's Due Initiative and Transcript Release Authorization Self-Service Verifications Grade Replacements Grade Replacement Application Grade Replacement Policy Academic Residency Academic Fresh Start Academic Fresh Start Application Academic Fresh Start Policy First–Year Covid Reboot 2021 First–Year Covid Reboot Application Academic Standing Academic Standing Appeals Information Grade Changes Third Party Verifications Transcript Ordering Information about ordering University of Cincinnati transcripts can be found on this page. Due to the COVID–19 pandemic, the Office of the Registrar will no longer accept mailed–in transcript requests. All transcripts must be ordered online. Feb. 28, 2022 Update: Our previous University Registrar, Douglas K. Burgess, PhD, passed away unexpectedly. We are in the process of moving signatures on transcripts and other verification documents to Interim University Registrar, Molly S. McDermott-Fallon, MBA. PLEASE NOTE: Please confirm that your grades and/or degree have been posted prior to placing your order. Transcripts will not be held for grades or degree posting and no refunds will be given. Overview University of Cincinnati partners with Parchment for ordering and processing all outgoing official transcripts, including paper and electronic PDF. As our agent, Parchment will collect all fees and send email confirmations of your orders. Accessing Your Transcripts Information About Login Credentials for Transcript Ordering Students who attended UC anytime since 1999 should have been assigned login credentials for UC online systems. The fastest way to order your transcripts is to use those login credentials. When you order transcripts this way, you will be passed through UC's current registration system, Catalyst, where you can take a look at your record prior to ordering your transcripts. Visit One Stop's Personal Information page to access the Get My Username utility. If you are unable to easily obtain your login credentials, please use the Transcript Ordering for Past Students Without Login Credentials link below instead of contacting IT@UC. If you are unable to obtain your login credentials via this utility, the Office of the Registrar should still be able to find your student record. Please view the information below about ordering transcripts directly via Parchment. Email reginfo@uc.edu with any questions. If you are able to obtain your username but need to reset your password, visit the IT@UC UC Password Self Service portal (or type uc.edu/pss into your browser), and select the Forgotten Password option. Order Your UC Transcripts With Your UC Login Credentials Ordering Transcripts Without Logging Into UC Services Don't worry if you do not have UC login credentials and need a transcript. Parchment has made it easy to order your transcripts directly through their online portal. Parchment alerts our office that a request has been made, and we manually fill the request by searching the University archives for your record. Note: Requests made directly via Parchment have the potential to take longer to process, and you may see a manual hold on your account while your record is being researched. If you are a new user, click the Create Account button. If you have ordered transcripts via Parchment in the past, please make sure you are using your Parchment account to order the transcripts again. Order Your UC Transcripts Via Parchment Important Information About Transcript Ordering Order Notifications and FERPA Compliance Notifications will be sent to your email directly from Parchment indicating the progress of your transcript request. An official transcript is a copy of a student’s entire academic record from the University of Cincinnati, bearing the official University seal and signature of the University Registrar. If your academic career at the University of Cincinnati included work from the College of Law as a JD student and/or the College of Medicine as an MD student, you will need to request those transcripts directly from those colleges. Only official transcripts may be released to a student or sent to a third party. In recognition of the confidentiality of student records, an official transcript of that record will be released only at the request of the student, except under due process of the law. Parchment is a Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) compliant application. By proceeding through the checkout and clicking next, you (the student) are providing consent to release your transcript and to receive email notifications regarding your order. Electronic Transcript Information Online service is available 24/7 and time is recorded in Mountain Standard Time. Electronic transcripts carry a security feature verifying that the transcript has not been altered. Transcripts are delivered as a digital PDF and must be accessed by the recipient within 30 days. The Registrar’s Office does not determine the accuracy of the email address provided or whether the recipient will accept the eTranscript. You may want to confirm that the receiving institution is set up to receive electronic transcripts prior to using this option. Students may also upload PDF attachments to accompany their transcripts. Transcripts and Holds on Accounts Before ordering a transcript, students must clear any holds or service indicators that block the release of transcripts before they can place an order. Login to your Catalyst account to check your service indicators. If your Catalyst portal does not indicate why you have a service block, please contact the One Stop Student Service Center at onestop@uc.edu or by phone at 513-556-1000. Unpaid Financial Obligation Holds and Transcript Release to Prospective Employers Requests If you have a transcript hold but need to send an official transcript to a prospective employer as a condition of employment, please submit a letter on the employer’s letterhead stating that the transcript is required for employment. If you are in the military and the transcript is required for advancement, the request must be on military branch letterhead, stating the transcript is required for advancement. The transcript will be released directly to your prospective employer or military branch. The transcript will not be released directly to you. The request must be submitted to: Loans and Collections Office University of Cincinnati PO BOX 210140 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0140 Once the request is approved the Loans and Collections Office will contact you to let you know that the transcript hold will be temporarily removed to allow you to request the transcript online. Degree Certification and Grade Posting Please check to make sure your grades and degrees are posted before ordering your transcript. We do not hold transcripts for grade or degree posting. To confirm your degree has been certified (conferred or awarded), login to your Catalyst student portal and click on the My Academics tile. Next select the Graduation/Commencement bar, and then click View Graduation Status. Processing Times Mailed paper transcripts may arrive up to two weeks after order is placed. Most transcripts will be emailed or sent via mail within one–three business days. Transcript requests for alumni and former students who attended the University before 1999 may require additional processing time as their secure records must be retrieved from University archives. Once the order is confirmed, it cannot be canceled, changed, held, or refunded. Pricing The cost of each electronic transcript ordered is $8.50. The cost of each paper transcript ordered is $11.00. Express shipping may be purchased for an additional cost. Sending Previous Institution Transcripts to UC All college or university transcripts from previous institutions must be requested by the student and sent to the Undergraduate Office of Admissions. Transcripts should not be sent to the Office of the Registrar. University of Cincinnati 2220 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45221-0060 513-556-1000 reginfo@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2220 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45221-0060 513-556-1000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top