Skip to Main Content Brown University Carney Institute for Brain Science Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Secondary Navigation Navigation Give to the Center Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Leadership/Contact Academic & Clinical Partners Research Research Projects Facilities & Resources Biomarkers Facility Innovation Awards Patients & Families News & Events Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Bridging clinical and foundational research to catalyze discovery into neurodegeneration and speed the race to treatments. Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Bridging clinical and foundational research to catalyze discovery into neurodegeneration and speed the race to treatments. Brown University’s Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research is committed to advancing early detection and individualized treatment for Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias. Alzheimer’s disease is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States. Significant investment and advancements in knowledge and discovery have bolstered Brown’s strength in Alzheimer’s disease and neurodegeneration research. The Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research integrates the expertise of Brown’s Robert J. and Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science and the Division of Biology and Medicine. Housed within the Carney Institute, the Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research catalyzes collaborations across basic and clinical research groups toward uncovering when, where and how Alzheimer’s disease first arises to advance the pace toward treatment. Our research projects integrate knowledge across biological systems in humans, including behavioral, neural, vascular and immune. Opportunity to join the Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Brown University is accepting applications from rising and established leaders in Alzheimer’s disease research for the position of Center Director for the Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research, with a tenured faculty appointment at the Associate or Full Professor level. Learn More Alzheimer's Disease By the Numbers Source: Alzheimer's Association 6th leading cause of death in the U.S. >6 million people are living with Alzheimer's in the U.S. 13 million people are expected to live with Alzheimer's by 2050 1 in 3 seniors in the U.S. dies with Alzheimer's or dementia 16% increase of Alzheimer's and dementia deaths during the COVID-19 pandemic Resources Research The Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research fosters collaborations across basic and clinical research groups that work toward uncovering when, where and how Alzheimer’s disease arises. Visit Page Open details for Research Patients & Families Study participants play a crucial role in the discovery of new knowledge to prevent and treat Alzheimer's disease and related dementias. Visit Page Open details for Patients &amp; Families Breaking new ground in the battle against Alzheimer’s disease https://www.youtube.com/embed/0v6TPQDfwf8 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Leadership/Contact Academic & Clinical Partners Research Research Projects Facilities & Resources Biomarkers Facility Innovation Awards Patients & Families News & Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give to the Center This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Open details for Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Bookmark this Page