Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Admissions Apply - Undergraduate Students Apply - Graduate Students Non-degree and Visiting Students Request to Re-enroll Cost, Aid and Scholarships Ambler Campus Scholarships Fox School of Business and Management Scholarships Scholarships and Awards for All Majors Scholarships and Awards for Current and Incoming Freshmen Next Steps for Admitted Students Request Information Visit Campus Tours Information Sessions Transfer Thursdays Schedule an Appointment Academics Academic Programs Continuing Education Law Enforcement Training Center Science and Mathematics Scholars Program Campus Resources Advising and Student Success Diamond General Café Disability Resources and Service Diversity and Inclusion Essential Information for Returning to Campus Greenhouse ID Cards (OWLcard) Library Off-Campus Housing Recreation and Wellness Recreation Recreation Events Red Barn Recreation Center Reservations Student Life Student Research, Innovation and Success Sustainability and Safety Technology Town Life Transportation Inter-Campus Bus For the Community Calendar of Events EarthFest Corpse Flower Central Meeting, Training and Recreation Spaces Facility Rentals Non-Credit Programs Non-Credit Registration Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Small Business Development Center Summer Education Camps Institutional Research and Assessment Testing Center Volunteer Opportunities Meet Our Recent Graduates Arboretum Field Station About News Contact Faculty Course Grant Giving Maps and Directions Directions Parking Public Transportation Sustainability at Ambler Tornado Recovery at Temple University Ambler Visitor Policies Meet the Director Temple University Ambler Campus Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Directions You are here Home Arboretum Visit Directions Admissions Apply - Undergraduate Students Apply - Graduate Students Non-degree and Visiting Students Request to Re-enroll Cost, Aid and Scholarships Ambler Campus Scholarships Fox School of Business and Management Scholarships Scholarships and Awards for All Majors Scholarships and Awards for Current and Incoming Freshmen Next Steps for Admitted Students Request Information Visit Campus Tours Information Sessions Transfer Thursdays Schedule an Appointment Academics Academic Programs Continuing Education Law Enforcement Training Center Science and Mathematics Scholars Program Campus Resources Advising and Student Success Diamond General Café Disability Resources and Service Diversity and Inclusion Essential Information for Returning to Campus Greenhouse ID Cards (OWLcard) Library Off-Campus Housing Recreation and Wellness Recreation Recreation Events Red Barn Recreation Center Reservations Student Life Student Research, Innovation and Success Sustainability and Safety Technology Town Life Transportation Inter-Campus Bus For the Community Calendar of Events EarthFest Corpse Flower Central Meeting, Training and Recreation Spaces Facility Rentals Non-Credit Programs Non-Credit Registration Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Small Business Development Center Summer Education Camps Institutional Research and Assessment Testing Center Volunteer Opportunities Meet Our Recent Graduates Arboretum Field Station About News Contact Faculty Course Grant Giving Maps and Directions Directions Parking Public Transportation Sustainability at Ambler Tornado Recovery at Temple University Ambler Visitor Policies Meet the Director Ambler Campus Map View the Ambler Campus interactive map online! Choose "Ambler Campus" from the list of campuses to locate buildings, gardens and many points of interest. From Temple University's Main Campus and Points South: Broad Street north to Cheltenham Avenue (approximately 6 miles). Turn left at Cheltenham Avenue. Follow signs to Route 309 North (approximately 1¼ miles). Turn right at Route 309 and proceed to Susquehanna Road Exit (approximately 6½). Turn left on Susquehanna Road. Proceed ½ mile to Butler Pike. Turn right on Butler Pike. Proceed approximately ½ mile to Meetinghouse Road. Turn right and proceed approximately ½ mile to entrance of Temple University Ambler. Entrance is on left, parking lot is on right. From Points North via Route 309/Bethlehem Pike: Follow Route 309/Bethlehem Pike south. When Route 309 and Bethlehem Pike split, follow Bethlehem Pike (approximately 2.7 miles). From Bethlehem Pike, make a left onto East Butler Pike. (approximately 1 mile) Make a right onto Meetinghouse Road. Proceed approximately ½ mile to Temple University Ambler. Campus on left, parking lot is on right. From the East (Abington, Huntingdon Valley): Take Susquehanna Road West. Turn right on Butler Pike. Turn right on Meetinghouse Road and proceed approximately ½ mile to Temple University Ambler. Campus on left, parking lot is on right. From the West (Reading, Pottstown, Limerick): Take Route 422 East to Route 202 North. Briefly take Route 202 North to I-76 West (look for signs to Pennsylvania Turnpike). Take I-76 briefly to Pennsylvania Turnpike. Take Exit 339 (Fort Washington exit), follow signs to Route 309 North, proceed to Susquehanna Road exit (approximately 2 miles). Turn left on Susquehanna Road. Proceed ½ mile to Butler Pike. Turn right on Butler Pike. Proceed approximately ½ mile to Meetinghouse Road. Turn right and proceed approximately ½ mile to entrance of Temple University Ambler. Entrance is on left, parking lot is on right. From the South via I-95 (Delaware and Maryland): Take I-95 to I-476 exit. Follow I-476 North 18 miles to Pennsylvania Turnpike Exit. Take Pennsylvania Turnpike (I-276) East to Exit 339 (Fort Washington exit). Take Exit 339, follow signs to Route 309 North, proceed to Susquehanna Road exit (approximately 2 miles). Turn left on Susquehanna Road. Proceed ½ mile to Butler Pike. Turn right on Butler Pike. Proceed approximately ½ mile to Meetinghouse Road. Turn right and proceed approximately ½ mile to entrance of Temple University Ambler. Entrance is on left, parking lot is on right. From the South via I-476 (Blue Route): Follow I-476 North to Pennsylvania Turnpike Exit. Take Pennsylvania Turnpike (I-276) east to Exit 339 (Fort Washington exit). Take Exit 339 (Fort Washington exit), follow signs to Route 309 North, proceed to Susquehanna Road exit (approximately 2 miles). Turn left on Susquehanna Road. Proceed ½ mile to Butler Pike. Turn right on Butler Pike. Proceed approximately ½ mile to Meetinghouse Road. Turn right and proceed approximately ½ mile to entrance of Temple University Ambler. Entrance is on left, parking lot is on right. From Philadelphia via I-76 (Schuylkill Expressway): Follow I-76 West to I-476 North (Exit 331B). Follow I-476 North to Pennsylvania Turnpike Exit. Take Pennsylvania Turnpike (I-276) east to Exit 339 (Fort Washington exit). Take Exit 339 (Fort Washington exit), follow signs to Route 309 North, proceed to Susquehanna Road exit (approximately 2 miles). Turn left on Susquehanna Road. Proceed ½ mile to Butler Pike. Turn right on Butler Pike. Proceed approximately ½ mile to Meetinghouse Road. Turn right and proceed approximately ½ mile to entrance of Temple University Ambler. Entrance is on left, parking lot is on right. From the Pennsylvania Turnpike: Take Exit 339 (Fort Washington exit), follow signs to Route 309 North, proceed to Susquehanna Road exit (approximately 2 miles). Turn left on Susquehanna Road. Proceed ½ mile to Butler Pike. Turn right on Butler Pike. Proceed approximately ½ mile to Meetinghouse Road. Turn right and proceed approximately ½ mile to entrance of Temple University Ambler. Entrance is on left, parking lot is on right. From New Jersey via the Lambertville-New Hope Bridge: Take Route 202 South to Route 152 East (Limekiln Pike). Turn right onto Fort Washington Avenue. Turn right onto Meetinghouse Road. Campus on left, parking lot is on right. From New Jersey via the New Jersey Turnpike: Take New Jersey Turnpike to Exit 6, which connects you to the Pennsylvania Turnpike (I-276). Follow directions from Pennsylvania Turnpike above. From New Jersey via Tacony-Palmyra Bridge: After crossing Tacony-Palmyra Bridge, stay straight on Levick Street. Turn left onto Tookany Parkway (Melrose Country Club on left). Turn right onto Cheltenham Avenue. Turn right onto Route 309 North and proceed to Susquehanna Road Exit (approximately 6½ ). Turn left on Susquehanna Road. Proceed ½ mile to Butler Pike. Turn right on Butler Pike. Proceed approximately ½ mile to Meetinghouse Road. Turn right and proceed approximately ½ mile to entrance of Temple University Ambler. Entrance is on left, parking lot is on right. Go back to AboutMore in Maps and Directions Arboretum Parking Hours of Operation Photo Policy Weddings & Special Events Arboretum Activities Directions Dogs in the Arboretum Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Ambler Campus 580 Meetinghouse Road Ambler, PA 19002 USA Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.