× Coronavirus Updates Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Aero-Propulsion, Mechatronics, and Energy Sign In Search FSU Navigation Select Search Type FSU Sites Student Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Search Search Sign In Sectors News People Research Facilities Sponsors Outreach Virtual Tour For Members For Admins Research Job Opportunities Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Skip to main content Aero-Propulsion, Mechatronics, and Energy FCAAP - CISCOR - Energy Laboratories at AME Building Sectors Aero-Propulsion Mechatronics Energy News People Faculty Members Alumni Administrative Staff Research Projects Publications Research Areas Facilities Sponsors Outreach Virtual Tour Research Job Opportunities Aeropropulsion, Mechatronics, and Energy Center The Aero-Propulsion, Mechatronics and Energy (AME) Center at Florida State University focuses on the development of transformational research programs to foster cross-cutting technologies. Polysonic Wind Tunnel The next-generation Polysonic Wind Tunnel at FSU is a blow-down wind tunnel and allows researchers to run tests between a Mach number of 0.2 to 5.0 including transonic speeds. CISCOR The Center for Intelligent Systems, Control, and Robotics (CISCOR) uses state-of-the-art technology to develop practical solutions to problems in systems, control and robotics for applications in industry and government. Power Science Lab Focusing on solving tomorrow's energy storage problems today, including through investigation of advanced capacitor technology. Subsonic Wind Tunnel FCAAP houses the Subsonic Wind Tunnel which allows for high-fidelity aerodynamic testing. The facility is a single-pass, Eiffel-styled wind tunnel which is driven by a 200 hp suck-down fan, which minimizes noise through the test section. Anechoic Wind Tunnel The FSU Anechoic Wind Tunnel is an open-circuit subsonic facility. It is used for aerodynamic and aeroacoustic studies of various flow-induced noise phenomenon and boasts state-of-the-art experimental fluid dynamic and aeroacoustic measurement capabilities. Anechoic Jet Facility Located in AME's Aeropropulsion Lab, this lab produces high-temperature, high-speed airflow that is essential to accurately simulate the exhaust from a jet engine Technologies for the Next Generation AME was formed to meet the needs of rapidly evolving and highly competitive fields. The Center aims to train and sustain a much-needed highly skilled workforce, to design and develop new technologies and products, and to transition technology to applications in a timely and efficient manner. Aero-Propulsion Mechatronics Energy News FSU researchers enhance quantum machine learning algorithms Published: Wednesday, March 17, 2021 Dr. Billy Oates's work in quantum computing is highlighted by FSU News! Continue reading FSU researchers enhance quantum machine learning algorithms NSF CAREER grant given to Dr. Neda Yaghoobian Published: Wednesday, March 17, 2021 Congratulations to Dr. Neda Yaghoobian for winning an NSF CAREER grant! Continue reading NSF CAREER grant given to Dr. Neda Yaghoobian Congratulations Dr. Cattafesta! Published: Friday, December 18, 2020 Dr. Cattafesta has been awarded a grant from the Emil Buehler Perpetual Trust to conduct research in all-electric aircraft, beginning in 2021. Continue reading Congratulations Dr. Cattafesta! AME Open House 2020 Highlights Published: Wednesday, March 4, 2020 Every Spring, Innovation Park bustles with local community members who are curious to explore the research laboratories of the area's leading experimental and theoretical thinkers. On February 22nd, the AME building showcased fan favorites such as the infrared imaging of ice cream ingestion, smoke vortex target practice, and another afternoon with AME's favorite humanoid, CASSIE. Check out some of the highlights and images from the event, and be sure to make it out next year! Continue reading AME Open House 2020 Highlights Visit the News Archive for past stories Address 2003 Levy Ave Tallahassee, Florida 32310 Maps Contact ame@fsu.edu Phone: 850-645-2631 Office Hours Monday - Friday: 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM EST Issues Technical Problems? © Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 AME SharePoint (Internal) Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media