Skip to main content Left arrow Barnard.edu Open Search Close Academic Year 2021-22 Faculty Curriculum & Courses Back First-Year Recommendations Major & Minor Requirements Back East Asian Track Middle Eastern Track South Asian Track Study Abroad Student Resources Back Grants & Awards NYC Events Research Opportunities Student Groups FAQs Left arrow Barnard.edu Search for: Search All of Barnard.edu Major & Minor Requirements East Asian Track First-Year Recommendations Major & Minor Requirements Back East Asian Track Middle Eastern Track South Asian Track Major Requirements The major requires at least 11 courses, including two senior thesis seminars if the student has already satisfied the language requirement in advance or more if they start as a novice. It requires five parts: language, core, disciplinary, elective courses, and senior theses. Language 3 years of Chinese, Japanese, Tibetan, or Korean, or the proficiency equivalent demonstrated by a placement examination. *Students who test out of three years or more of a language must take an additional year of that language or another East Asian language to satisfy the Barnard language requirement. *In all East Asian language courses, the minimum grade required to advance from one level to the next is a B-. Core Courses Asian Humanities UN 1400 Colloquium on Major Texts Two of the following survey courses: 1. Asian Civ. UN 1359 Introduction to the Civilizations of China 2. Asian Civ. UN 1361 Introduction to the Civilizations of Japan 3. Asian Civ. UN 1363 Introduction to the Civilizations of Korea 4. Asian Civ. UN 1365 Introduction to Tibetan Civilization 5. Asian Civ. UN 1367 Introduction to the Civilization of Vietnam EAAS UN 3990 Approaches to East Asian Studies (Fall) Disciplinary Courses Three courses in either history, literature, philosophy, religion, art history, anthropology, political science, economics, or other thematic cluster approved by the adviser. Elective Courses Two courses related to East Asia chosen in consultation with the adviser. Senior Theses A senior thesis may be a research paper or an annotated English translation of an East Asian text. There are two tracks. (1) Under EALAC at Columbia must apply to the Senior Thesis Program at the end of junior year by May 1 5pm and hand deliver a hard copy to the EALAC Academic Coordinator in 407 Kent. Students must have a 3.6 GPA in major. Decisions are made by June 1. All students accepted are required to enroll in the Senior Thesis Research Workshop (EAAS UN3999) for the senior fall term. Students who perform satisfactorily in the workshop, successfully complete a thesis proposal, and find a faculty advisor, will then write the Senior Thesis in the senior spring term under an adviser and a graduate student tutor (EAAS UN3901). Successful completion by the April 1 deadline will be necessary but not sufficient for a student to receive Departmental Honors. (2) Students who do not have a 3.6 major average OR who wish to write their senior theses at Barnard do so under the direction of an East Asia Barnard faculty member. Students should enroll in two semesters of independent study (Asian Studies BC 3999) with their faculty adviser. Minor Requirements Prerequisites Students must meet the following prerequisite prior to declaring an AMEC minor in the East Asia Track: Two years of Chinese, Japanese, Korean, or Tibetan. These must be either taken at Columbia or proficiency is proven through a placement examination. Languages: Two semesters of third-year language, or the proficiency equivalent (demonstrated by a placement examination). Students who test out of the third-year level must take either an additional year of the same language or one year of an additional language in the same East Asia Track. Introductory Courses (two): AHUM UN1400, Colloquium on Major Texts of East Asia One civilizations class relating to the language and region of study (China Civ, Japan Civ, Korean Civ, or Tibetan Civ) Electives (two): Two electives in the world region taken in any department at the 3000- or 4000-level, subject to approval by the advisor. Site Footer Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University