Skip to Main Content Brown University American Studies Secondary Navigation Navigation Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About People Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Governance American Studies Concentration Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Courses Ethnic Studies Courses Concentration Requirements Honors Program Public Humanities Contact Search American Studies About Sub Navigation In This Section People Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Governance About American Studies is an interdisciplinary field of study, rooted in the comprehensive analysis of national and transnational political and popular culture. Dating back to the 1940s, the work of American Studies bridges discipline-bound departments and divisions in the modern university. Our scholarship and our teaching extend beyond campuses to communities of all sorts, and beyond nations to transnational populations, here in the United States and elsewhere. Main Themes American Studies at Brown is concerned with four broad themes. Social Structures and the Practices of Identity How do communities and individuals come to define themselves, and how do others define them, in terms of, among other categories, nation, region, class, race, ethnicity, gender, sex, religion, age and sexuality? How do organizations and institutions function socially and culturally? What are the roles of social movements, economic structures, politics and government? Space and Place How is space organized, and how do people make place? This includes the study of natural and built environments; local, regional, national and transnational communities; and international and inter-regional flows of people, goods, and ideas. Production and Consumption of Culture How do people represent their experiences and ideas as culture? How is culture transmitted, appropriated and consumed? What is the role of artists and the expressive arts, including literature, visual arts and performance. Science, Technology and Everyday Life How does work and the deployment of science and technology shape American culture? How do everyday social practices of work, leisure and consumption provide agency for people? Approaches American Studies at Brown emphasizes four intersecting approaches that are critical tools for understanding these themes. Cultural and Social Analysis Reading and analyzing different kinds of texts, including literary, visual, aural, oral, material objects and landscapes. Examining ethnic and racial groups, institutions, organizations and social movements. Global/International Contextualization Comprehending the United States as a society and culture that has been shaped by the historical and contemporary flows of people, goods and ideas from around the world and in turn, learning about the various ways in which America has shaped the world. New Media Understandings Understanding the creation of new forms of discourse, new ways of knowing and new modes of social organization made possible by succeeding media revolutions. Using new media as a critical tool for scholarship. Publicly Engaged Scholarship Connecting the theory and the practice of publicly-engaged research, understanding and presentation, from community-based scholarship to ethnography, oral history, and museum exhibits. Civic engagement might include structured and reflective participation in a local community or communities or the application of general theoretical knowledge to understanding social issues. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About People Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Governance American Studies Concentration Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Courses Ethnic Studies Courses Concentration Requirements Honors Program Public Humanities Contact Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search About Open details for About Bookmark this Page