Skip to Main Content Brown University American Studies Secondary Navigation Navigation Events Search Menu Site Navigation Home About People Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Governance American Studies Concentration Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Courses Ethnic Studies Courses Concentration Requirements Honors Program Public Humanities Contact Search American Studies Master's Program Breadcrumb Home American Studies Graduate Study Sub Navigation In This Section Admission Master's Program Curriculum Application Ph.D. Program Master's Program The American Studies M.A. program is cohort-centered and community-based. Our students come from across the country and generally complete the degree in one year while in residence here in Providence. They seek to explore a particular specialization in scholarship, add intellectual depth to their existing professional or academic life, determine if they want to continue on to a Ph.D. program, or to prepare for doctoral work. American Studies also offers a 5th year M.A. for Brown undergraduates who wish to pursue graduate work. A standard M.A. curriculum is 8 credits. 5th year M.A. students may apply up to two undergraduate courses taken at Brown toward this curriculum. Generally, these classes would count outside of the requirements for a number of courses taught with the "AMST" prefix or above the 2000 level. Like the regular M.A., the 5th year M.A. is designed to be completed in one year. Master's Curriculum Our M.A. curriculum consists of eight courses, typically spread over one year in two semesters, and an ungraded and reflective ePortfolio, created at the end of the second semester. Master's Program Application Apply to the graduate program in American Studies at Brown. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About People Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Governance American Studies Concentration Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Courses Ethnic Studies Courses Concentration Requirements Honors Program Public Humanities Contact Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Master's Program Open details for Master's Program Bookmark this Page