Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Department of American Studies myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link News Careers Contact Academics Select to follow link Undergraduate Programs Select to follow link Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in American Studies Bachelor of General Studies (B.G.S.) in American Studies Minor in American Studies Minor in Latino/a Studies Minor in Social Justice in the U.S. Undergraduate Certificate in Race and Ethnicity in the U.S. Graduate Programs Select to follow link Master of Arts (M.A.) in American Studies Master of Urban Planning and Master of Arts Graduate Certificate in American Studies Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in American Studies Courses Offered Select to follow link Undergraduate Courses Graduate Courses Advising Study Abroad Admission Select to follow link Scholarships & Funding Research and Publications Select to follow link American Studies Journal (AMSJ) AUMI People Select to follow link Core Faculty Officers and Staff Graduate Students Directory Alumni & Friends Select to follow link Our Alumni Alumni Publications Alumni Forms Select to follow link Submit/Update Alumni Profile Give Resources Info for Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Alumni myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Department of American Studies Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Let American Studies prepare you for a future beyond KU Be Involved Events Give American Studies Journal Our Faculty Our Alumni Follow Us FacebookInstagramTwitter Think your major is adequately preparing you for the job market? Think again. The 21st century work force is one that demands critical skills in verbal and written communication and research, the ability to examine varied perspectives and work with diverse others, and multicultural and multinational awareness and understanding. No matter your major, your resume must reflect this basic knowledge and fundamental set of skills. Why American Studies? Admission Your path to a major, minor, or graduate degree in American studies starts here. Undergraduate Undergraduate Graduate Graduate Advising Advising American Studies Journal Sponsored by the Department of American studies, AMSJ publishes interdisciplinary, creatively accessible scholarly articles in the field of American Studies. Explore this Journal Subscribe to our email list: 213 Bailey Hall 1440 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 amerst@ku.edu 785-864-4011 facebook instagram twitter American Studies Homepage News Undergraduate Graduate Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.