Skip to main content Skip to main content Contact Advanced Manufacturing Institute About FACILITIES Equipment Research People News Research Group CNTG Scaling up ideas to advance manufacturing Advanced Manufacturing Institute (AMI) Addressing the “valley-of-death” challenges where many new technologies fail in the scale up process, the University of Houston Advanced Manufacturing Institute (AMI) transitions lab-scale technology to full-fledged manufactured products for the market. Cream Latest News View All News > Helping Healthcare Workers on the Frontlines Fight off COVID-19 Shay Curran has developed a waterproofing solution that can protect personal protective equipment li… Chron. Protecting PPE: Curran Finds a New Use for His Fabric Coating Shay Curran developed the waterproofing-style solution for covering fabrics back in 2011, and found… KHOU11 Seamus Curran Honored with Silicon Valley 50 Award Irish Technology Leadership Group chooses 50 technology executives for award. University of Houston Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Next page Next › Last page Last » Black From Lab To Market 75Investment in manufacturing accounts for 75 percent of private company R&D and 60 percent of private company R&D employee 14AMI consists of 14 UH faculty members with expertise in transitioning research projects to manufactured and marketable products 25More than $25 million was acquired for AMI programs, including $3 million from Industry sponsors and $3.5 million from the state of Texas Emerging Technology Fund. Cream Research Thrusts Advanced manufacturing is expanding, world-wide and substantial investments are pouring into the field. AMI is a leader in manufacturing research because of its diverse disciplines. Most centers for advanced manufacturing specialize in one or a few areas. The ongoing research, especially in superconductor wire manufacturing and roll-to-roll manufacturing of crystalline semiconductors, is unique and not typical areas of expertise of any other academic manufacturing center nationwide. Superconductor Wire Manufacturing Roll-to-Roll Semiconductor Manufacturing Flexible Electronics Manufacturing Chemicals Manufacturing Battery Manufacturing Learn More > Image Location Left Column Image Image Shape Rectangular Image CONTACT US UH Technology Bridge Building 15 5000 Gulf Freeway Houston, TX 77023 Phone: 713-743-4044 Email: selva@uh.edu UH Technology Bridge Building 15 5000 Gulf Freeway Houston, TX 77023 (713) 743-4044 Quick Links AMI Staff News Equipment ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies