Tuck Tuck Executive Education at Dartmouth Tuck Advanced Management Program Who Should Attend Program Faculty News & Knowledge Apply Tuck Tuck Advanced Management Program Who Should Attend Program Faculty News & Knowledge Apply A transformative experience for senior leaders who seek to innovate, drive growth, and create value. Request More Information Start Your Application Why this program Your new toolkit for business success The Tuck Advanced Management Program (AMP) at Dartmouth is a two-week program designed to give senior executives the advanced skills needed to succeed in today’s difficult business landscape. The Tuck AMP focuses on the key tools that enable senior leaders to drive strategy, innovate and lead change across complex global organizations – whether private, public, or nonprofit. The program is led by Tuck’s famed faculty who have for years successfully blended the best academic thinking with practical insights to help senior executives in leading organizations around the world. Explore the program Who Should Attend Is this program right for me? The Tuck Advanced Management Program is designed specifically for senior executives in roles that have strategic implications and who seek to foster an enterprise-wide mindset, drive growth, and develop a visionary approach to leadership. The program targets those senior executives who are comfortable with what they know about the business basics, but are seeking more advanced thinking about their most challenging business problems. Participants will leave Tuck AMP with new tools to help them make even the toughest management decisions and an action plan for addressing their most pressing business objectives. Learn more Key Information Dates July 10 – 22, 2022 Tuition $24,000 Location Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Hanover, NH Alumni Status Upon completion of the program, participants are welcomed into the Tuck alumni affiliate community. Join the community “ AMP is the single most powerful learning experience I have had. ” Rob Bean VP, CFO, and COO of Orvis and AMP graduate Participants in Tuck’s AMP will work with Tuck’s senior faculty to: Identify a key challenge then apply leading-edge tools and frameworks to solving it for your business Connect with other visionary leaders while learning about value creation from multiple perspectives Adopt and implement a global perspective on driving growth and managing change Shift from a functional thinking perspective to a long term, visionary growth perspective Transform your leadership style to build more powerful and robust organizations Learn more about the Tuck Advanced Management Program Request Information CONTACT US 603-646-2839 tuck.exec.ed@tuck.dartmouth.edu Stay Connected ©, The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved.