Effron Center for the Study of America Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Effron Center for the Study of America Main Menu Menu About Submenu About Us Our History Land Acknowledgement Faculty Bookshelf News Events Submenu Anschutz Lectures Submenu Past Lectures, Symposia and Screenings Asian American Studies Lecture Series Submenu Past Lectures and Readings Colloquia and Workshops Submenu Past Colloquia and Workshops Center for Migration and Development Spring 2022 Colloquium Series Col(LAB) Submenu Concept Col(LAB) 1.0: Food Matters Col(LAB) 2.0: Strange Life: Beauty, Race, & War Call for Proposals Col(LAB) 3.0: (Collective) Self-Portraiture: Autobiography and its Discontents Lapidus Lectures Submenu Past Lectures, Conferences and Symposia University Constitution Day Lecture Submenu University Constitution Day Lecture Archive People Submenu Administration Executive Committee Faculty Areas of Study Submenu Undergraduate Submenu AMS 101 Advanced Seminars Prizes Past Theses Testimonials American Studies Submenu Undergraduate Courses Graduate Courses Asian American Studies Submenu Undergraduate Courses Asian American Studies Faculty-Graduate Reading Group Indigenous Studies Submenu Undergraduate Courses Native American and Indigenous Studies Initiative at Princeton (NAISIP) Princeton American Indian and Indigenous Studies Working Group (PAIISWG) Latino Studies Submenu Undergraduate Courses Opportunities Submenu Anschutz Distinguished Fellowship Submenu Past Anschutz Distinguished Fellows Undergraduate Funding Opportunities Submenu Thesis Funding Off-campus Projects and Student Groups Asia in Princeton Graduate Funding Opportunities Submenu Past Research Grant Recipients Asian American Studies Graduate Funding Opportunities American Studies Association Conference Contact Us Join Our Mailing List Log in Search Search Program in Asian American Studies Undergraduate Certificate An opportunity to gain interdisciplinary perspectives on the diversity of Asian American and Pacific Islander histories, cultures and contemporary experiences, the course of study focuses on the formative emergence of this pan-ethnic group in the United States. It also highlights Asian America’s transnational connections and contexts, including the dynamics of globalization, migration, imperialism and post-coloniality. Enroll Readings in recent Program in Asian American Studies courses include, clockwise from top left: Bengali Harlem by Vivek Bald, Insurrecto by Gina Apostol, Tripmaster Monkey by Maxine Hong Kingston, Personal Days by Ed Park, The Asian American Achievement Paradox by Jennifer Lee and Min Zhou, Orientalism by Edward W. Said, How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia by Mohsin Hamid, Interior Chinatown by Charles Yu, Subverting Exclusion by Andrea Geiger, Fresh off the Boat by Eddie Huang. Join the Program Admission The program is open to students from all departments. Students may enroll in the Asian American studies certificate program at any time, including the first year. There are no prerequisites, and courses taken prior to enrollment may count towards the certificate requirements. Students may take the gateway course AMS 101 at any time during their studies, including after enrollment in the certificate program. To enroll in the program, students should complete the online enrollment form. Students should plan to meet with the associate director or program coordinator before the end of their first year of enrollment, to review their plans for fulfilling the certificate requirements. Program of Study Students may earn a certificate in Asian American studies by successfully completing the following requirements, consisting of five courses: AMS 101: America Then and Now Three courses in Asian American studies (ASA), either originating in the program or cross-listed, and preferably representing disciplinary breadth in the social sciences, arts, and humanities. No more than one course taken in fulfillment of the student’s concentration may be counted toward the certificate. With the approval of the associate director, a student may substitute a comparative race and ethnicity course that contains substantial Asian American studies content for one of these courses. An advanced seminar in American studies, preferably taken in the senior year. Certificate of Proficiency Students who fulfill all the requirements of the program will receive a certificate in Asian American studies upon graduation. Fall 2022 Courses Introduction to Asian American Studies Subject associations ASA 201 / ENG 209 Who or what is considered Asian American? Who or what decides those boundaries? Using the collaborative Asian American tarot deck as framework, this course critically interrogates the complexities surrounding "Asian American" as political and community formation. In so doing, it considers intersections between race, class, gender, ability, and sexuality as factors that impact movements, identities, and narratives, and that ultimately trouble what it means to be Asian American. Course themes include: inclusion/exclusion, migration, racial violence, U.S. empire and war, refugees and adoptees, pop culture and media, and Asian American activism. Instructors Staff Asian Americana: Theorizing Race, Class, Gender and Sexuality Across Difference Subject associations ASA 361 / AMS 461 / GSS 330 From the height of the Asian American movement began at San Francisco State in 1968, the question of where Asian diasporic communities fit within the American racial matrix has been of pivotal interest for scholars, students, activists and artists across genres. This class seeks to explore Asian Americans' social location in the US. Using a relational intersectional feminist approach, this class will examine Asian Americans positionality in relation to Indigenous, Black and Latinx communities throughout the country. Students will engage and hone Asian American Studies interdisciplinary methods (historical, literary and filmic analysis). Instructors Staff Community and Conversations Reading Groups Events Recordings Students in ‘Asian American Family’ connect race, kinship : Feature Article Original work for the course zine included poetry, art and performance. Feature Article In the course “The Asian American Family,” students created a zine with original works including poems, paintings, cartoons and creative nonfiction that explore Asian American kinship. Photo by Sarah Malone Back to Top Footer Effron Center for the Study of America Morrison Hall, Second Floor Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 (609) 258-4710 Twitter Facebook American Studies Asian American Studies Latino Studies Image Credits Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University