/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Undergraduate Major Undergraduate Minor Courses Graduate Opportunities Faculty Faculty Books About Us Program Administration and Contacts The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: The histories and cultures of the changing United States American Studies Program The American Studies Program offers an interdisciplinary engagement with what America means in the United States and in a global context. Faculty encourage students to look at the meaning and reality of the evolving United States as a question still in need of answering and as an experiment still in process, not as a dream fully realized. We use multiple perspectives and methodologies and require that students synthesize knowledge in ways that develop the skills needed for rigorous, complex analysis. Popular Destinations Undergraduate Major Undergraduate Minor Course Listings Faculty Profiles Graduate Opportunities American Studies News The University Chorus Makes Beautiful Music Originally known as the Women’s Glee Club, the group will celebrate its centennial at Reunion ’22. Read More Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More History Brothers: A Chat with Evan Earle ’02, MS ’14, and Corey Earle ’07 Steeped in Big Red lore since childhood, they ponder their favorite artifacts, what Ezra would think of today’s University, and more. Read More 'I learned to ask questions from curiosity rather than a need to be right' Kathryn Stamm is a Literatures in English and American Studies major. Read More 'I saw how law is critical to ensuring a more equitable world for all' Ashley Ramynke is an American studies major. Read More Student-librarian partnership makes history The inaugural RAD Public History Fellows have been digging deep into library archives and bringing their discoveries to light in creative ways – from social media posts to displays of artifacts and tours of library exhibits. Read More Two alumni win New York Times newsroom fellowships Ishaan Jhaveri '17 M.Eng '18 and Anna Grace Lee '20 were named New York Times Newsroom Fellows for 2022-23. Read More John F. Kennedy Award recipient reimagines public safety An Army combat medic veteran from a justice-involved family, Hodges has dedicated his academic study, campus leadership and social justice advocacy to understanding and offering alternatives to the current model of policing. Read More See all American Studies news Student Spotlight: Michelle Fleurantin '17 An American Studies and Sociology double major, Michelle Fleurantin says Professor Sabine Haenni "was one of the most significant influencers of my Cornell education. Before taking her Introduction to American Studies course, I struggled to find a major that encapsulated my academic interests. She showed me how American Studies would provide me with an interdisciplinary education that would change my world view and prepare me to be a well-rounded problem-solver." Click here to read more about Michelle. More Student Spotlights American Studies major Kevin Cruz '18 fuses intellectual & artistic passions 1/20/2018 By | Aditya Bhardwaj Spotlight on Alumni: Yliana Velazquez '17 9/27/2021 By | Tenzin Kunsang "Every person I’ve met here has influenced my education in some way." 9/25/2015 Sally Saban: 'There will always be another student, another text, another professor, another theory to greet upon this campus.' 4/19/2017 Kate Poor: 'Through working with these groups of compassionate, curious and dedicated activists, I found some of my closest friends' 5/24/2016 Gap year allows alum to pursue passion for working with homeless 7/24/2017 American Studies Events See all events 402 Morrill Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email American Studies Program 607-255-0097 Twitter Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top