Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences American Studies Main Navigation Academics Show Extended Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Credential Program Courses Internships Students Show Extended Student Association The American Papers Careers Advising Show Extended The Major The Double Major The Minor The MA Program Faculty Show Extended Faculty Books Alumni Show Extended Alumni Profiles Books by Alumni Community College Board Scholarships Show Extended Napolin APC Undergraduate Scholarship David Jon Vaca Memorial Undergraduate Scholarship Mike and Lucy Steiner Study Abroad Scholarship Academic Achievement Award Outstanding Reentry Student Award Susan Flinkingshelt Student Association Service Award Earl James Weaver Graduate Essay Prize Support our Department Community Show Extended California American Studies Association News and Events Contact If you need assistance related to American Studies, you can contact the department by phone (657-278-2441) or email amerstudies@fullerton.edu. For advising, please contact amstadvising@Fullerton.edu or the Department Chair, Professor Terri Snyder at snyder@fullerton.edu. For further COVID-19 information and Spring 2022 updates, please see: http://coronavirus.fullerton.edu/ Department of American Studies American Studies at Cal State Fullerton is an independent department which takes as its primary subject American culture in its historical development. Our courses examine American cultural life in the past and present, always with the aim of helping students better understand their experiences and their society. We study how Americans have thought about and experienced such matters as gender, ethnic, racial, and regional identities, humor, religion, crime and violence, childhood, family, the built environment, community, mental health and sickness, cultural ideals, and cultural criticism. We are a department of engaged, energetic professors from a range of backgrounds and disciplines. In an American Studies class you will encounter a wide range of cultural sources for study. You may read one or more novels or autobiographies, examine movies and television as cultural documents, consider the visual arts and music, or view examples of the built environment. You will also be exposed to the most recent scholarship in the rapidly developing interdisciplinary field of American culture studies. Critical thinking and writing skills are the warp and woof of all our courses. All exams in American Studies are essay exams. All classes emphasize discussion and classroom dialogue rather than pure lecture. Students regularly write response papers in which they critically evaluate and synthesize what they have read and discussed. Students regularly conduct library and ethnographic research and write up the results of that research in ways which integrate their own findings with ideas and evidence presented in the classroom. In our General Education courses, you will study the broader dimensions of American culture, as it developed in the past and as it exists in the present. Our upper-division electives are open to all students with an interest or background in the specific topic. These courses reflect the research or interest specialty of the faculty giving the course, so you will receive the benefit of both the professor's specialized knowledge and his or her enthusiasm for the topic. To learn more about our department: Watch a video of our students talking about their experiences in AMST. Learn more about an American Studies degree. Visit the American Studies section of the University catalog. Read the Department of American Studies Student Learning Goals and Outcomes. Read about what you can do with a major in American Studies. Why Choose American Studies? Or contact us directly by phone or email. News & Headlines Congratulations to Professor Battan for winning the HSS Scholarly Achievement Award for his essay "What is the Correct Revolutionary Proletarian Attitude toward Sex?”: Red Love and the Americanization of Marx in the Interwar Years” that can be found in Marxism and America: New Appraisals! Check out Professor Loftin in the new documentary LA: A Queer History which will debut in June. The documentary will feature not only an interview with Professor Loftin but also actors reading letters from his book Letters to ONE: Gay and Lesbian Voices from the 1950s and 1960s. Congratulations to Professor Abnet for winning the HSS Award for Outstanding Scholarship and Creativity! Check out the new Edition of the American Papers! Congratulations to Graduate Student Marisol Rivera for recieving the CSUF Alumni Association's Outstanding Graduate Student Award for 2022! Congratulations to Professor Golub on the publication of his forward to a special issue of Crime Fiction Studies entitled "Criminal Crossovers"! Check out our Summer/Fall 2022 Course Schedule! Congratulations to Professor Snyder on the publication of her chapter "Slavery, Resistance, and Memory in the Lowcountry: The Commemoration of hte Stono Rebellion," in the edited collection Fugitive Movements: Commemorating the Denmark Vesey and Black Radical Antislavery in the Atlantic World! Read more about it in the Titan Spotlight! Congratulations to Professor Lewinnek on the publication of her new book: A People's Guide to Orange County! Congratulations to the Class of 2021! The AMST Department hosted a virtual graduation ceremony on June 11. Check out the YouTube video here. Congratulations to Professor Battan! His article "’What Is the Correct Revolutionary Proletarian Attitude toward Sex?’: Red Love and the Americanization of Marx in the Interwar Years” was recently published in Marxism in America: New Appraisals published by Manchester University Press. Check out the newly-published 2020-2021 Edition of The American Papers which includes some of the best papers written for AMST courses in the previous year as well as some amazing artwork! Read the Department's Statement against Anti-Asian Racism and Violence. The Department asks everyone to read the Statement Against Anti-APIDA Racism and Sexual Violence and A Call for Solidarity to Fight for Human Rights put out by CSUF's Department of Asian American Studies. The Department of American Studies endorses the recent CSUF Academic Senate Resolution Condemning Racism and Anti-Asian Violence in Society. Happy Black History Month from American Studies! Here are some resources compiled by our faculty, in case you want to learn more about Black History in the US. Congratulations to Professor Snyder! Her new book As If She Were Free was recently selected as a Best Black History Book of 2020 by Black Perspectives, the African American Intellectual History Society's blog. Check out the article Professor Snyder wrote with her co-authors on As If She Were Free about the history of black women's actvisim that made Kamala Harris's swearing in as Vice President possible. Congratulations to Professor Gonzaba! His Mapping the Gay Guides recently won an Emerging Open Scholarship Award from the Canadian Social Knowledge Institute given to exemplary open scholarship that is accessible to a large public audience. Check out a documentary from BBC Radio featuring Professor Abnet talking about the 1921 play Rossum's Universal Robots, which introduced the term robot into public discourse. Congratulations to Professor Snyder and her co-authors on the publication of their new book As If She Were Free: A Collective Biography of Women and Emancipation in the Americas by Cambridge University Press! WGN TV in Chicago recently did a piece on redlining that prominently features Professor Lewinnek! Watch the video at the link. Check out Professor Loftin's webinar on integrating LGBT history into K-12 history curriculums. Read about Professor Snyder's unpoming book As if She Were Free: A Collective Biography of Women and Emancipation in the Americas on CSUF's newspage. The book will be out on October 31 from Cambridge University Press! Professor Rowe's research on black women, hair and beauty politics was recently highlighted in the OC Register. Check out the article! Check out a new article on Professor Gonzaba's Mapping the Gay Guides project at the OC Register! Listen to Professor Lane talk about her research on unemployment during the COVID-19 pandemic on the Canadian radio broadcast, "unWorking" Check out an article in the Chronicle of Higher Education about the shift to online learning that includes a great interview with Professor Golub! Check out Professor Craig Loftin’s Music Video Closet, which he created several years ago to explore LGBT visibility in 1980s music videos. The website features detailed textual analysis of a few dozen music videos of queer significance and lays the groundwork for current book manuscript, New Wave Apocalypse: A Queer Journey Through 1980s Music Video. Congratulations to Professor Rowe for winning the inaugural Women and Language Article Award for her article "Beyond Good Hair: Negotiating Hair Politics Through African American Language," which was published in Women and Language in 2019. Check out an essay in the OC Register by grad student Laura Fauvor on her activism and work on Professor Gonzaba's digital history project Mapping the Gay Guides! Congratulations to the class of 2020! Watch the AMST Department's virtual graduation ceremony on YouTube! Congratulations to Professor Emeritus Mike Steiner on the publication of his new book: Horace M. Kallen in the Heartland: The Midwestern Roots of American Puralism! Read more about the book on CSUF's main news page. Professors Kanosky, Rowe, and Woo hosted a teach-in on racial violence in the U.S. on June 9. Read about the event in The Daily Ttian. Thanks to them and Professors Snyder, Fingal, and Zenderland for organizing the discussion. Congraulations to Professor Gonzaba! Not only was his digital history project Mapping the Gay Guides recently featured on CSUF's News page but his other digital project, Wearing Gay History, was just selected for inclusion in the Library of Congress's LGBTQ+ Studies Web Archive! Check out the wonderful story in the OC Register on 2020 graduate Julian Orozco! Congratulations to Professor Rowe! She recently won the 2020 College of Humanities and Social Sciences Dean's Faculty Scholarly Achievement Award for her article “‘Nothing Else Mattered After That Wig Came Off’: Black Women, Unstyled Hair, and Scenes of Interiority” in the Journal of American Culture. Congratulations to Professor Abnet on the publication of his book The American Robot: A Cultural History by The University of Chicago Press! Congratulations to Professor Gonzaba on the successful launch of his new digital humanities project, Mapping the Gay Guides! Check out the Daily Titan article on Professor Loftin's research into LGBTQ subtext in 80s mustic videos! Congratulations to Professor Golub on winning CSUF's first-ever Writing Across the Curriculum certificate! Congratulation to Professor Golub and former MA student Ashley Loup on the publication of their article "Engaging Fan Cultures: What Students Learn When They Study Fans" in the current edition of Participations: Journal of Audience & Reception Studies. Read the AMST Department's Statement on Hate Speech Incidents. Congratulation to Professor Woo on the publication of her book Framed by War: Korean Children and Women at the Crossroads of Empire by NYU Press! Congratulations to Professor Ibson on the publication of his new book Men without Maps! You can watch a video of his book signing at Book Soup taken by former graduate student Jose Zamora on YouTube. Professor Terri Snyder was featured as the keynote speaker at "Untamed: Women and the Law," a special symposium held in conjunction with the Jamestown Settlement's year-long exhibit, "Tenacity: Women in Jamestown and Early Virginia" in commeration of the 400 year anniversary of the beginnings of slavery in North America. Check out the volunteer work done by AMST students on a study abroad trip to Denmark led by Professor Lane over the summer! The department is excited to welcome Kristin Rowe and Eric Gonzaba as new full time faculty members! Check out their webpages and stay tuned for more information about their research and teaching. We are saddened to learn of the recent death of Professor Emeritus David Pivar, the founder and first chair of our department. Nearly 50 years later, we remain indebted to his vision, determination, and guidance. Congratulations to Dr. Ibson on the publishing of his new book, The Mourning After: Loss and Longing Among Midcentury American Men by the University of Chicago Press! The American Studies Department is saddened to learn of the death of its former MA student Ian Barraza. Winner of the Giles T. Brown Outstanding Thesis Award, Ian was a model student, powerful advocate for the Deaf Community, , and a devoted father. Please read the department's tribute to Barraza. Check out a new article on zombies and the blues by Professor Golub. Congratulations to him as well for taking first runner-up honors in Pulp Literature’s Raven Short Story Contest for his short story “The Pool Guy.” Check out the OC Register article about Professor Woo's research on "invisible" Korean War adoptees. Congratulations to Professor Snyder for being elected to the Council of the Omohundro Institute of Early American History and Culture! Congratulations to Professor Woo for winning the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation's Malkiel Scholars award for fostering inclusive campus communities! Check out Professer Lane's article on the "gig economy" at the Harvard Business Review. Listen to Professor Terri Snyder discuss her book The Power to Die on Ben Franklin's World: A Podcast About Early American History . Congratulations to Professor Adam Golub on the publication of his new edited volume Monsters in the Classroom! We are saddened to share the news of the passing of our recent graduate, Courtney Brown. Courtney was an exceptional student and invaluable member of our community. AMST graduate student Amy Kremer won the CSUF Giles T. Brown Award for Outstanding M.A. Thesis of the Year with "Woods, Wolves, and Falcons: The Nature Writing of Jean Craighead George." Read about the many books our alumni have published in this OC Register article! This site is maintained by Department of American Studies. Last Published 5/14/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact dabnet@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.