Texas A&M College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Menu Search for: Former Students Current Students Future Students Faculty/Staff Department of Animal Science Search for: Skip to content Welcome About Welcome Facilities Awards Department of Animal Science Job Board Tamu Email – Exchange ANSC Intranet – Faculty/Staff Only Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Beyond The Classroom Extension Beef Cattle Specialists Dairy Specialists Horse Specialists Meat Specialists Sheep & Goat Specialists Swine Specialists Youth Projects Research Species & Topics Animal Behavior Animal Breeding & Genetics Animal Nutrition Beef Cattle Dairy Science Equine Science Meat Science Physiology of Reproduction Sheep & Goats Swine Programs News & Events Animal Science Monthly Newsletter News Archives Workshops Contact Giving Department of Animal Science Development Initiatives Beef Cattle Development Meat Science and Technology Center Development International Pregnancy & Developmental Programming ANSC Competitive Teams Development Former Students Current Students Future Students Faculty/Staff WHY ANIMAL SCIENCE? Check out our video to hear our students talk about why they chose to pursue a degree from the Department of Animal Science. VETERINARY FEED DIRECTIVE The revised Veterinary Feed Directive addresses the use of drugs in feeds for livestock. College Priorities Former Students Current Students Future Students Faculty Staff Giving The Department of Animal Science at Texas A&M University has achieved national and international prominence as one of the largest and most complex departments of its kind in the country. The Animal Science department strives to meet the needs of all citizens by providing outstanding teaching, research and Extension programs. Featured Programs International Beef Cattle Academy The Texas A&M – International Beef Cattle Academy is a flagship component of our educational mission; a certificate program tailored to advance the knowledge of global beef production. Workshops The Department offers a wide variety of workshops for livestock breeders, ranchers and more led by our expert faculty and Extension specialists. Areas of Excellence To aid in the accomplishment of the mission of the Department of Animal Science, we have identified and developed five Areas of Excellence to more effectively improve lives through discovery, integration, dissemination, and application of science-based knowledge of animals and animal products. Howdy! Welcome To #TAMUANSC https://youtu.be/6i5FSO0AtCE Advance Your Education With IBCA! https://youtu.be/MZ3w1yBdyL0 Connect With Us facebook twitter linkedin instagram Job Board Department of Animal Science Job Board Compact with Texans Privacy and Security Accessibility Policy State Link Policy Statewide Search Veterans Benefits Military Families Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Equal Opportunity Open Records/Public Information