Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Director's Message Research Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Education Awards Financials Donors Zoom Backgrounds Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Home Image Carousel with 8 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Slide 5 Slide 6 Slide 7 Slide 8 A Year of Challenges: Racing to Understand Our Changing Planet During 2020, we continued building upon our legacy of scientific leadership, producing landmark research about the inner workings of our planet. Even as the pandemic paused our field season, altering the life of our campus, we welcomed a new interim director. We made a commitment to anti-racism and institutional change. We launched new virtual learning experiences. We became the scientific research heart of the newly launched Columbia Climate School. As the year draws to a close, Lamont is poised to continue the vital work of illuminating Earth’s fragility, resilience, and wonder as we strive to prepare the next generation of scientific leaders. Previous Next Lamont Annual Report 2020 Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory seeks fundamental knowledge about the origin, evolution, and future of the natural world. Here, we highlight our accomplishments from July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020. A Message from Lamont Interim Director Maureen E. Raymo Research Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Education “Our discoveries continue to illuminate the mechanisms and mysteries of our extraordinary planet and inform the pathways to a sustainable future.” Maureen E. Raymo, Interim Director, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory trophy icon Awards Recognition for the groundbreaking work of our researchers. pie-chart icon Financials Sources and uses of revenue for Fiscal Year 2020. handshake icon Donors Friends and alumni who sustain our critical research and educational endeavors. Lamont-Doherty Earth ObservatoryPO Box 1000, 61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close