Skip to main content Director’s Message By the Numbers Exhibitions & Publications Research & Programs Education & Partnerships Advancement Collections Staff, Student, Volunteers YCBA 2019–2020 Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Director’s Message By the Numbers Exhibitions & Publications Research & Programs Education & Partnerships Advancement Collections Staff, Student, Volunteers Director’s Message Courtney J. Martin, Paul Mellon Director, Yale Center for British Art, photo by Mara Lavitt Courtney J. Martin, Paul Mellon Director Dear Friends: In July 2019, I returned to one of my favorite places in the world, the Yale Center for British Art, as the Paul Mellon Director. The museum’s impressive holdings, so perfectly displayed in the elegant, light-filled spaces designed by Louis I. Kahn, have never ceased to inspire me. As the year unfurled in unforeseeable ways, however, the dedication, fortitude, and resilience of my colleagues at the YCBA and across Yale University proved even more remarkable. The initial months of the 2019–2020 fiscal year were filled with incredible energy. Before shuttering our doors in mid-March to safeguard against the spread of COVID-19, we opened six special exhibitions and published two catalogues; added more than three hundred fifty objects; hosted lectures, performances, symposia, and tours; and shared our collections with access program participants, schoolchildren, university classes, and visitors from all over the world. During the fall semester, graduate students in Yale’s History of Art Department curated an exhibition commemorating the bicentenary of John Ruskin (1819–1900), one of the most significant cultural figures of the nineteenth century. We welcomed back the Pulitzer Prize–winning author Hilton Als, who spoke on the occasion of a display of works by painter and writer Lynette Yiadom-Boakye, the second in a series of three successive exhibitions Als has curated with us focusing on British women artists. Our other major fall show, Migrating Worlds: The Art of the Moving Image in Britain, was the first exhibition at the museum dedicated exclusively to video art. I was pleased that Isaac Julien, one of the artists featured, returned in February to join me in conversation following a special screening of his film The Leopard (Western Union: Small Boats) (2007). And although the long-awaited exhibition Victorian Radicals: From the Pre-Raphaelites to the Arts and Crafts Movement was open for only twenty-seven days in the early spring, it was viewed by more than 6,300 visitors. Following months of preparation, the museum launched its new website in June 2020, offering a more dynamic and user-friendly experience while also laying the groundwork for our successful transition to a robust schedule of online programming. I am grateful to the individuals and organizations whose support made possible the activities, initiatives, and programs outlined in this report, and hope that you will enjoy reading about their impact. Sincerely, Courtney J. Martin Paul Mellon Director Read more text Read More By the Numbers This report reflects activities between July 1, 2019 and June 30, 2020. 58,787*total number of visitors to the museum 2,303*schoolchildren who visited in tour groups 1,268*student visitors to the Study Room 51.8percentage increase in social media engagement 351gifts and acquisitions 1,433*hours worked by volunteers at the museum 20.4percentage increase in social media followers 117objects loaned to 19 venues in 5 countries 45*docent-led tours of collections and architecture *would have been higher were it not for mid-March coronavirus closure Exhibitions & Publications DOWNLOAD COMPLETE LIST In fiscal year 2020, the museum opened six thought-provoking exhibitions and published two comprehensive exhibition catalogues. Highlights are below. John Ruskin, Study of an Oak Leaf, undated, Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Collection Yale doctoral candidates curated John Ruskin exhibition Unto This Last: Two Hundred Years of John Ruskin commemorated the great artist, art writer, and critic’s two-hundredth birthday. It positioned Ruskin as a pioneering ecological thinker, social reformer, educator, and preservationist by presenting more than ninety objects from the museum’s rich collections, along with significant loans from institutions such as the Beinecke Rare Book & Manuscript Library and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. More than sixteen thousand people came to view the display of paintings, drawings, literary manuscripts, mineral samples, and ephemera. The exhibition recreated a nineteenth-century gallery and highlighted Ruskin’s impact in his own time as well as his enduring signiﬁcance. READ MORE Read More This ambitious project was organized by the museum and expertly curated by three doctoral candidates in Yale’s Department of the History of Art: Tara Contractor, Victoria Hepburn, and Judith Stapleton; with direction from Tim Barringer, the Paul Mellon Professor in the History of Art at Yale, and Courtney Skipton Long, Acting Assistant Curator of Prints and Drawings at the museum. A 315-page exhibition publication, Unto This Last: Two Hundred Years of John Ruskin, features essays by the curators and other scholars. A version of the exhibition opened in March 2020 at the Watts Gallery–Artists’ Village in Surrey, UK, but closed early due to the pandemic < BACK Previous Lynette Yiadom-Boakye, 1pm, Mason’s Yard (detail), 2014, courtesy of the artist and Jack Shainman Gallery, New York, © Lynette Yiadom-Boakye Pulitzer Prize–winning author Hilton Als curated exhibition of Lynette Yiadom-Boakye’s work The Hilton Als Series: Lynette Yiadom-Boakye was the second in a series of three exhibitions curated by Als featuring women artists from Britain and the Commonwealth. Selected by Als in collaboration with Yiadom-Boakye (b. 1977), the display highlighted recent works by the London-based artist and writer, focusing on her portrait-like studies of characters drawn from the world of fiction, found images, and imagination. Yiadom-Boakye’s works depict people of color existing on their own terms, human beings alive with presence but stripped of complicated narrative, freed from ideological concerns or the reduction to symbols. More than sixteen thousand visitors viewed the display of oil paintings on loan from private collections alongside a series of twenty etchings from the museum’s own holdings. READ MORE Read More In connection with the exhibition, the monumental Portrait of Lynette Yiadom-Boakye, Jacob Morland of Capplethwaite (2017) by Kehinde Wiley (Yale MFA 2001) was installed in the fourth-floor galleries amid the museum’s historic collections, where it provided a contemporary foil to the eighteenth- and nineteenth-century grand manner paintings. In addition to Als and Yiadom-Boakye, the exhibition was curated by Matthew Hargraves, Chief Curator of Art Collections. Organized by the museum, the show traveled to the Huntington Library, Art Museum, and Botanical Gardens, in San Marino, California, where it was on view in 2020. The final exhibition in the Als series, opening in the fall of 2022, will feature the work of Njideka Akunyili-Crosby (Yale MFA 2011). < BACK Previous Kate Elizabeth Bruce, Musica (detail), ca. 1895–97, courtesy American Federation of Arts, © Birmingham Museums Trust Victorian Radicals made an impact within shortened timeframe The eagerly anticipated exhibition Victorian Radicals: From the Pre-Raphaelites to the Arts and Crafts Movement opened with a lively performance of period music attended by more than two hundred people but closed shortly afterward due to the pandemic. More than six thousand visitors viewed the show during the twenty-seven days it was open. Curator Tim Barringer, the Paul Mellon Professor of the History of Art at Yale, recorded a virtual tour for those unable to visit in person. The exhibition proposed that artists and designers of the nineteenth century, who were the first to confront a mature capitalist economy following the Industrial Revolution, offered radical critiques of capitalism and fashioned visions of a more ethical and beautiful world. The exhibition of 145 paintings, works on paper, and decorative art objects—many on view outside of the UK for the first time—focused on three generations of young rebellious artists and designers who revolutionized the visual arts in Britain. READ MORE Read More Featuring the work of Edward Burne-Jones, William Holman Hunt, John Everett Millais, William Morris, Mary Jane Newill, Dante Gabriel Rossetti, and Simeon Solomon among others, Victorian Radicals celebrated the skill and still-relevant ideas of these thinkers and makers. Victorian Radicals was organized by the American Federation of Arts and Birmingham Museums Trust. The exhibition was supported by a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts. Additional funding was provided by Clare McKeon and the Dr. Lee MacCormick Edwards Charitable Foundation. Victorian Radicals was curated by Tim Barringer, the Paul Mellon Professor of the History of Art at Yale; Martin Ellis, independent curator; and Victoria Osborne at Birmingham Museums Trust. The organizing curator at the Yale Center for British Art was Courtney Skipton Long, Acting Assistant Curator of Prints and Drawings. < BACK Previous Research & Programs DOWNLOAD LIST OF VISITING SCHOLARS DOWNLOAD LIST OF PROGRAMS The museum supports a number of ongoing research projects including the portrait scanning featured below, and welcomes visiting scholars on a rotating basis. The museum also hosts a range of audiences for talks, lectures, conferences, symposia, and workshops. Three memorable programs are introduced below. X-ray scans yield portrait “maps” and new data Beginning in 2015 and continuing for five years, the museum was engaged in an in-depth technical cataloging endeavor called “Reformation to Restoration” which focused on Tudor and Stuart portraiture from the sixteenth to the eighteenth centuries. The research project’s name corresponds with the periods in European history from the Protestant Reformation to the English Restoration. With the support of Yale’s Institute for the Preservation of Cultural Heritage, the project entered a new stage in 2019, utilizing macro X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy to analyze fifty portraits from the museum’s collections by leading painters of the period such as Cornelius Johnson, Anthony Van Dyck, Peter Lely, Mary Beale, and Godfrey Kneller. READ MORE Read More MA-XRF scans of iron from the face. The project yielded a spectrum of new data on the identity and spatial distribution of specific painting materials; the evolution of the painter’s palette over this period; approaches to mark-making and blending, as well as compositional changes not evident using traditional forms of spot analysis or conservation imaging. The learnings from the cataloguing effort spurred the project to continue in a new direction whereby conservation staff will explore flesh tones in portraiture. < BACK Previous Sir Peter Lely, Diana Kirke, later Countess of Oxford (detail), ca. 1665, Yale Center for British Art, Paul Mellon Collection Edgar Heap of Birds delivered Norma Lytton Lecture More than one hundred people attended the museum’s twelfth annual Lytton Lecture with Edgar Heap of Birds. The program was supported by the Norma Lytton Fund for Docent Education, established in memory of Norma Lytton by her family. Lytton was an active docent at the museum for more than twenty years. Edgar Heap of Birds, artist and Traditional Elk Warrior Society Leader, Cheyenne Nation of Oklahoma, presented Native origins recounted in revised US history, indigenous community art actions, and public art collaborations with museums and art centers internationally. He is a well-known protest artist, and his work references historical incidents concerning the growth of the British Empire during the pre-colonial and colonial periods of American history. While in New Haven, he met with undergraduate and graduate student members of Yale’s indigenous community. < BACK Previous Edgar Heap of Birds with his installation The Health of the People is the Highest Law, 2019, photo by Ted West Ishion Hutchison on William Blake Ishion Hutchinson, Jamaican poet and Associate Professor in the Department of English at Cornell University, was among the recipients of the prestigious Windham-Campbell Prize in 2019. Established at Yale in 2013, the prizes herald literary achievement and provide writers with the opportunity to focus on their work independent of financial concerns. According to the awards citation, Hutchinson’s poems “consider questions of empire and environment, and what it means to be a finite, mortal creature in a finite, mortal world, blessed and cursed, remembered and remembering.” As part of the university’s weeklong celebration of the winners, Hutchinson joined Leah Mirakhor, Lecturer in Ethnicity, Race, and Migration and the Program in American Studies at Yale, for a close-looking session at the museum to discuss the English poet and printmaker William Blake. Ishion Hutchison, photo by Marco Brunelli and Johanne Affricot Conversation with filmmaker Isaac Julien CBE RA The exhibition Migrating Worlds: The Art of the Moving Image in Britain featured work by eight contemporary British artists, including filmmaker and installation artist Isaac Julien CBE RA. The museum screened Julien’s film The Leopard (Western Union: Small Boats) (2007), based on the celebrated novel Il Gattopardo by Guiseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa. The film explores the movement of people across the Mediterranean Sea, specifically African refugees making the crossing by boat to reach Europe to escape war and famine. Following the screening, Paul Mellon Director Courtney J. Martin joined Julien for a discussion about the unique poetic and visual language of his multiscreen film installation with an audience of more than one hundred participants. Still from Isaac Julien’s The Leopard (Western Union: Small Boats), 2007. Education & Partnerships YCBA’s educational offerings extend beyond the museum’s walls, impacting individuals in the larger Yale community as well as greater New Haven. Through these partnerships, students learned new ways of looking, enhanced their professional skills, and brought their unique perspectives and experiences to the museum. Yale School of Medicine students sketch in the galleries as part of the Enhancing Observational Skills program, photo by Jennifer Reynolds-Kaye Observation skills workshop for medical students thrives Now in its twenty-second year, Enhancing Observational Skills is a museum intervention for health care professionals and students created by Head of Education Linda Friedlaender. The program explores how visual examination and objective description of representational narrative paintings are transferable to the examination of patients. The workshop is mandatory for first-year Yale medical students. Over time, and due to its success and popularity, the program has grown to include medical residents working at Yale New Haven Hospital as well as students from the Yale School of Nursing. Participants are taught how to look closely at a work of art. The methods are so effective that they are also being incorporated into tours of the museum for high school and college students. During 2019–2020, 1,061 people joined tours and programs using the Enhancing Observational Skills pedagogy. Numerous other museums and 170 medical schools around the world have adopted this program. Artwork Jessica Harpool created for “PAINT” class taught by Mark Aronson and Jessica David, photo courtesy of the artist Students made paint from pantry ingredients after studio class moved online “PAINT” (HSAR 478-01/ART 323-01) was intended to be a seminar held partly in the studio and partly in the gallery—until it was derailed halfway through the spring 2020 semester due to the pandemic. Taught by Mark Aronson, Chief Conservator, and Jessica David, Senior Conservator of Paintings, the course focused on the evolution, materiality, and life cycle of paint. The class of fifteen Yale graduate and undergraduate students used objects from the collections of the museum and Yale University Art Gallery to learn about the character of paint, its manipulation, and its role as an artistic vehicle. Moving online was challenging, as the class was designed to be hands-on with time spent painting, visiting the museum galleries, researching, and making pigments from historical and modern colorants and techniques. Though the students were sheltering across several countries and had no painting materials at hand, attendance continued nearly uninterrupted. READ MORE Read More Artwork by Yat | Fung The instructors mailed each student a paint-by-numbers kit and discussed the hobbyist painter revolution and the commercialization of painter’s materials. Participants were also encouraged to produce paintings with whatever they had available, resulting in several amazing efforts incorporating lipstick, powdered cheese, peanut butter, and mustard. < BACK Previous Individuals from Chapel Haven Schleifer Center participate in Out to Art in the galleries, photo by museum staff Special-needs group learned about exhibition planning For over a decade, the museum has collaborated with the Chapel Haven Schleifer Center (CHSC), a New Haven–based transitional school and residential program for adults with developmental disabilities. Created by Head of Education Linda Friedlaender with CHSC Art Director Tina Manchetti, Out to Art is an opportunity for CHSC participants to meet weekly at the museum. In addition to close looking at art, the group practices social skills, communication skills, and museum etiquette. During the 2019–2020 year, the group began planning an exhibition. Instructors selected twenty paintings from the museum’s collections and the group discussed which works they would choose to display, identified unifying themes, and considered what information to make available to viewers. Richard Johnson, Chief of Installation, designed a lesson where the students learned to pack and unpack special crates designed to ship art objects. READ MORE Read More Documentary video footage of the students discussing the process and their ideas was recorded. When the museum closed due to the pandemic, Out to Art transitioned online, and participants continued their planning over Zoom during weekly meetings with docents. The project will culminate in a display on view in May 2022. < BACK Previous New Haven Promise interns (including Bryanna Moore) visit the Collections Study Center on Yale’s West Campus. Internship challenged young scholars to think deeply Among the undergraduates employed at the museum each summer are students who participate in New Haven Promise, a scholarship program that provides financial assistance and work opportunities to exceptional graduates of New Haven public schools. Since 2015, the museum has offered thirty-seven immersive internships. New Haven Promise interns learn all aspects of museum management—from collections research to exhibition planning to marketing—and assist with projects like planning events, drafting social media posts, compiling bibliographies, and updating webpages and databases. They participate in museum programs, meetings, and professional development sessions. READ MORE Read More According to Bryanna Moore, a recent participant in the program: As New Haven Promise interns, we found that there is never an opportunity missed to pursue new and intriguing channels of learning at the Center . . . My knowledge and appreciation for British art and history have greatly expanded. I even learned the difference between the conservation of oil paintings and works on paper. A critical pillar of interning at the Center is being challenged to think deeply and more vividly about art. Exploring art as a multifaceted discipline of both aesthetics and understanding is an experience that can be applied to various future avenues and studies. < BACK Previous Advancement DOWNLOAD LIST OF SUPPORTERS The museum gratefully accepts donations in support of programs and educational opportunities, as well as collections growth and stewardship. Please direct any inquiries or suggestions to Advancement and External Affairs at ycba.advancement@yale.edu or +1 203 432 8559. Kress Foundation sponsored educational initiatives two programs supported by the foundation in 2019–2020 The Samuel H. Kress Foundation is a long-standing supporter of museum programs. Foundation President Max Marmor recently said why he believes the museum is an important convener: The Yale Center for British Art is renowned for making its extraordinary collections and resources accessible to diverse audiences. The Kress Foundation is proud to support the Center’s efforts to advance the study and understanding of British art by facilitating dialogues, collaborations, and networks of scholars at all levels. READ MORE Read More Seminar on Teaching European Art in Context: Art and Society in Britain, Hogarth to Turner In July 2019, the museum hosted this annual seminar in collaboration with the Council of Independent Colleges. Led by Tim Barringer, the Paul Mellon Professor of the History of Art at Yale University, this seminar brought together faculty members from across the US to place British art in a global context, emphasizing questions of race and empire. International Copyright Workshop: Providing Online Access to Art Historical Research Photography Collections This workshop, held at the Paul Mellon Centre in London, brought together legal and cultural heritage experts and stakeholders from the UK, EU, and US in March 2020. The group explored cross-border copyright challenges and their resolution in the context of a common digital platform for the PHAROS consortium, a collaborative of fourteen photo archives around the world. < BACK Previous Tim Barringer, the Paul Mellon Professor of History of Art at Yale University, speaks in the Yale Center for British Art galleries, photo by museum staff Friends of British Art enjoyed a variety of events and excursions private viewings, receptions, and tours in fall and winter The Friends of British Art include patrons, collectors, and scholars who share a deep interest in British art and support the museum with lead annual gifts. Among this year’s events was a preview tour of the newly installed British Galleries at the Metropolitan Museum of Art with Wolf Burchard, Associate Curator of European Sculpture and Decorative Arts, and Iris Moon, Assistant Curator of European Sculpture and Decorative Arts. The galleries include eleven thousand square feet devoted to British decorative arts, design, and sculpture created between 1500 and 1900. For more information about joining the Friends of British Art, please visit our website or contact us at ycba.advancement@yale.edu or +1 203 432 8559. READ MORE Read More additional friends of british art activities in fiscal year 2020 Treasures from Chatsworth at Sotheby’s with the Duke of Devonshire Hogarth: Cruelty and Humor at the Morgan Library & Museum with exhibition co-curator Laurel Peterson, Moore Curatorial Fellow in the Department of Drawings A reception in honor of Paul Mellon Director Courtney J. Martin at Roth Bar in New York City hosted by Bernard I. Lumpkin, Gregory R. Miller, Miko McGity, and Rebecca Siegel A conversation and reception during Art Basel Miami hosted by Will Osborne and Karen Bechtel J. M. W. Turner: Watercolors from Tate at the Mystic Seaport Museum with Courtney J. Martin and Scott Wilcox, Deputy Director for Art Collections Tours of Magazzino Italian Art in Cold Spring, New York, and Dia Beacon in Beacon, New York, led by Courtney J. Martin < BACK Previous Gabrielle Lurie, left, and Paul Mellon Director Courtney J. Martin with Wolf Burchard, Associate Curator of European Sculpture and Decorative Arts in the British galleries at the Metropolitan Museum, photo by museum staff Collections DOWNLOAD LIST OF GIFTS, ACQUISITIONS, OUTGOING LOANS Each year the museum adds to its collections of paintings, sculpture, drawings, prints, photographs, rare books, and manuscripts through gifts and acquisitions. Collections are available for viewing free at the museum and online. Below is a sampling of acquisitions from the year ending June 30, 2020. Wax seal, Society for the Conversion &c. of Negroe Slaves, Great Britain, ca. 1820, purchase, Paul Mellon Fund VIEW OBJECT IN COLLECTION DATABASE Eileen Hogan, Ian Hamilton Finlay Walking Toward the Roman Garden (detail), 2009, gift of Eileen Hogan VIEW OBJECT IN COLLECTION DATABASE Frank O. Salisbury, Study of a Lunette Mural at Victoria Memorial Hall, Calcutta (detail), 1920, bequest of Paul Walter VIEW OBJECT IN COLLECTION DATABASE Richard Hamilton, Palindrome (detail), 1974, gift of Barbara Sunderman Hoerner VIEW OBJECT IN COLLECTION DATABASE Francis Hoyland, from the series Scenes from the Life of Christ (detail), undated, gift of Monroe E. Price Yale BA 1960, LLB 1965, and Aimee Brown Price, Yale MA 1963, PhD 1972 VIEW OBJECT IN COLLECTION DATABASE William Kentridge, Study for “Atlas Procession,” 2000, gift of Driek and Michael Zirinsky in honor of Arlene Warmbrunn Saxonhouse, Yale PhD 1972, and Gary Saxonhouse, Yale BA 1964, PhD 1971, and their family VIEW OBJECT IN COLLECTION DATABASE David Hockney, Panama Hat (detail), 1972, transfer from the Yale University Art Gallery, estate of Richard Brown Baker VIEW OBJECT IN COLLECTION DATABASE William Hogarth, The Fellow ’Prentices at their Looms (detail), from the series Industry and Idleness, 1747, gift of Suzanne and William H. Speaker VIEW OBJECT IN COLLECTION DATABASE Edward Clifford, Castle Grant (detail), 1905, gift of Rosemarie Haag Bletter and Martin Filler in memory of John Mark Hall VIEW OBJECT IN COLLECTION DATABASE Staff, Students, Volunteers DOWNLOAD COMPLETE LIST Despite the challenges posed by this unusual year, our talented staff continued to serve our collections and our community with dedication and resourcefulness. We appreciate as always the volunteers and students who enrich the museum in numerous ways. Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 1080 CHAPEL STREET NEW HAVEN CT 06520 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Spolify Accessibility at Yale | Privacy Policy