Skip to content Skip to quick search Skip to Sidebar Navigation Skip to breadcrumbs Skip to action menu Answers Popular Pages Help & Support Information Technology Support ITS Answers Networking Blackboard Information Security ITS Services and Applications Placement Exams TurningPoint Clickers Telecommunications Duo Two-Factor Authentication Information Technology Support Departments ITS Learning Environments and Media Production Network Wiring Services Academic Services Colleges School of Information Studies College of Law College of Professional Studies Whitman Engineering and Computer Science Arts & Sciences Visual and Performing Arts Falk College School of Education Newhouse Graduate School School of Architecture Maxwell School Other SU Libraries Degree Works - Students Advancement and External Affairs Housing, Meal Plans and ID Card Services Marketing and Communications Disability Resource Portal Information Faculty Affairs University Councils and Committees Center for Online & Digital Learning Chemistry Handshake for Career Services Academic Continuity Online Success Toolkit Center for Learning and Student Success Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition BioInspired Syracuse Women in Leadership Student Experience Information Technology Student Living Spaces Hit enter to search Help Online Help Keyboard Shortcuts Feed Builder What’s new About Confluence Log in Blackboard Pages Blog Page tree Hidden Fields for Pagetree Hidden Fields for Pagetree ancestorId Space Details Browse pagesConfigureSpace tools action-menu Attachments (6) Page History People who can view Page Information Resolved comments View in Hierarchy View Source Export to PDF Export to Word Dashboard Blackboard Blackboard Updates Skip to end of banner Unrestricted6 attachments Jira links Go to start of banner Blackboard Navigation Update Created by Matthew Peters Warne, last modified on Aug 06, 2021 Faculty Support Sessions Online Learning Services has planned several office hour sessions during Summer 2021 to help instructors prepare their fall courses. Please complete our Google form to access the meeting link. Sessions are scheduled for the following times: Date Time Wednesday, July 21 10:00-11:00 AM Thursday, July 22 1:00-2:00 PM Tuesday, July 27 11:00 AM-12:00 PM Wednesday, July 28 3:00-4:00 PM Thursday, July 29 9:30-10:30 AM Monday, August 2 2:00-3:00 PM Friday, August 6 9:30-10:30 PM Tuesday, August 17 2:00-3:00 PM Friday, August 20 9:00-10:00 AM Monday, August 23 10:00-11:00 AM Thursday, August 26 11:00-12:00 AM Blackboard Ultra Navigation Syracuse University Blackboard has updated from Blackboard Learn to Ultra Base Navigation. The change provides users with a modernized landing page that includes a new notification system, a consolidated view of activity across their courses, and easier ways to navigate to course content. The update does not change any of the following: How you login to Blackboard. The way that individual courses function once you have entered them. The function of course tools such as items, announcements, assignments, test, discussion boards, etc. These will function just as before once you are inside a course. Content already built in courses. The ability of instructors to copy content, just as before. Third party integrations with textbooks, Kaltura, Zoom, Collaborate, Turnitin, etc. — these will work much as before with some small tweaks to how they are accessed. This change was scheduled to take place between the Summer I and Summer II terms to impact as few users as possible in on-going courses. We hope that the timing will also provide ample time for Fall 2021 instructors to grow accustomed to the change and seek technical support before the term begins. In addition to the summary below, users are encouraged to view the brochures created by Blackboard with a summary of improvements for instructors and improvements for learners. Support Documents on Key Differences The following support pages are targeted to some of the key differences between Blackboard Learn and Ultra Base Navigation. Activity Stream Introduction Calendar Introduction Finding Courses Grades Introduction Messages Introduction Navigating Inside Your Course Benefits There are a number of benefits of making this change in the system navigation: Greatly improved accessibility Dramatic improvements for navigating the site on mobile devices Reduced clicking to navigate directly to relevant areas of courses Notifications that can be customized by each user Consolidated views of activity across all courses Architecture improvements that make it possible to create Blackboard Ultra Courses in the future Sneak Preview Global Navigation & Institution Page Blackboard Ultra Navigation includes navigation panel to replace the current system of modules. This panel is simple and consistent for navigating your courses, accessing your activity stream, and seeing your grading or grades. In the screenshot below, you'll see the navigation panel next to the "Institution Page" where users will find system information and links to support resources. Course List With the new navigation it will be easy to filter, search, favorite, and hide the Blackboard courses you are enrolled in. This will allow you to customize what courses appear first and help you get into them quickly. Activity Stream The activity stream provides a view of activity in your courses including newly posted information, due dates, and activity in discussion boards, and grades/grading among other things. Clicking on the items displayed will taking you directly to the relevant area in the course for a complete view of the material. The stream is customizable by each user so that they can display just the information they want to see. Grades Clicking grades will show students scores and feedback recently posted in their courses. Instructors will see a summary of submissions including their grading status. Courses As stated above, the change in navigation will not change the content or functionality of the courses. The screenshot below demonstrates how the course is displayed in the new navigation. No labels For complete results log in with your Syracuse University NetID and password. Can't find it in Answers? Need additional help? Request Help Information Technology Services | Syracuse, NY 13244 | T: 315.443.2677 | help@syr.edu | http://its.syr.edu | Accessibility | Privacy © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Powered by Atlassian Confluence Adaptavist ThemeBuilder EngineAtlassian Confluence {"serverDuration": 305, "requestCorrelationId": "7c4bb3fd2f847e5c"}