Skip to content Skip to quick search Skip to Sidebar Navigation Skip to breadcrumbs Skip to action menu Answers Popular Pages Help & Support Information Technology Support ITS Answers Networking Blackboard Information Security ITS Services and Applications Placement Exams TurningPoint Clickers Telecommunications Duo Two-Factor Authentication Information Technology Support Departments ITS Learning Environments and Media Production Network Wiring Services Academic Services Colleges School of Information Studies College of Law College of Professional Studies Whitman Engineering and Computer Science Arts & Sciences Visual and Performing Arts Falk College School of Education Newhouse Graduate School School of Architecture Maxwell School Other SU Libraries Degree Works - Students Advancement and External Affairs Housing, Meal Plans and ID Card Services Marketing and Communications Disability Resource Portal Information Faculty Affairs University Councils and Committees Center for Online & Digital Learning Chemistry Handshake for Career Services Academic Continuity Online Success Toolkit Center for Learning and Student Success Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition BioInspired Syracuse Women in Leadership Student Experience Information Technology Student Living Spaces Hit enter to search Help Online Help Keyboard Shortcuts Feed Builder What’s new About Confluence Log in Information Technology Support Page tree Hidden Fields for Pagetree Hidden Fields for Pagetree ancestorId Space Details Browse pagesConfigureSpace tools action-menu Attachments (0) Page History People who can view Page Information Resolved comments View in Hierarchy View Source Export to PDF Export to Word Dashboard Information Technology Support Home Skip to end of banner Unrestricted Jira links Go to start of banner Email (SUMail) Created by Daniel L Jeski, last modified on Oct 27, 2021 Welcome to the SUMail home page at Syracuse University. This page includes details about our email systems including login, password, and support information. SUMail Login To log in, click the button below: Log into SUMail SU Email Policies: Every user of a Syracuse University email account should be aware of the Syracuse University email policy. Additionally, all email account users should be aware of practices to keep your email account safe. Listserv: For information regarding Listserv, please visit Listserv at Syracuse University home page. About SUMail Accounts SUMail is managed by the University and utilizes Microsoft's cloud services. This partnership provides students several powerful and convenient features, including: Increased mailbox sizes up to 100 GB Modern Outlook Web experience Increased security with multi-factor authentication Increased spam, virus, and phishing protection Your SUMail email address is your NetID@syr.edu. For example if your NetID is xyzsmith your SUMail email address would be xzysmith@syr.edu SUMail uses the same password that you set up for your NetID. To manage your NetID, including password management, activation, and two-factor authentication (MFA), visit http://netid.syr.edu. To add your SUMail to a personal device, use the instructions on the SUMail Configurations page. Want to filter mail, file junk, or block messages? SUMail accounts can utilize the Junk folder to both manage mail filtering and block messages. Additional information, including instructions, can be found on the Microsoft Junk Folder page. New Student? When can you log in? Newly matriculated students are assigned an official email address approximately 24-48 hours after they have submitted their Admissions Acceptance Form (undergraduate) or the Intent to Register Form (graduate, Law), paid tuition deposit, been confirmed as matriculated, and have activated their NetID. First-time non-matriculated students (e.g. University College) are assigned an official email address usually within a day after they have submitted their registration. Alumni Email Accounts SUMail email addresses for alumni will be available for as long as SUMail remains the official Syracuse University email system; although Microsoft reserves the right to display advertisements to SUMail users whom are not current students. Contents in your alumni mailbox might be removed if your mailbox is not used for more than 12 months. Don't Have a NetID? Alumni who don't have a NetID and wish to get a SUMail email account should contact the Help Desk at 315.443.2677 or help@syr.edu. If a NetID can be provided for you, you can go to http://netid.syr.edu to activate the NetID and then sign up for SUMail. Alumni who do not currently have an account can visit netid.syr.edu, click on "Additional Services" and select "Sign Up For SUMail." Additional Information Even though your account will remain as long as SUMail continues to be the official email system, you still will need to keep up with your yearly password changes as you would have when you were a current/matriculated student. If you forget to change it and your account has locked, or you have forgotten your password, do not hesitate to reach out to us at the listed contact information above! Access After Graduation, Resignation, or Retirement Syracuse University licenses email accounts for active students, staff, faculty, retired faculty (including emeriti), and also active associates whose role supports the University's mission. When a person is no longer in any of these roles, access to the mailbox may be removed. For complete information, including how long you will have access after your status change, please view our IT Resource Access for Inactive Affiliations page on Answers. Additional Support Pages SUMail Configurations Enable Forwarding in SUMail Creating a Rule to Delete Incoming Mail Securing SUMail After A Security Lock Connecting to a Shared Account in SUMail Syncing Handshake Calendar to SUMail Managing Junk Email Filters in SUMail How to recover deleted items in SUMail SUMail Limits Getting Help For support of the information above, contact the ITS Help Desk by calling at 315-443-2677, by emailing help@syr.edu, or by stopping into 1-227 CST. Faculty and staff are highly encouraged to begin support by contacting their academic or administrative support personnel. Top email For complete results log in with your Syracuse University NetID and password. Can't find it in Answers? Need additional help? Request Help Information Technology Services | Syracuse, NY 13244 | T: 315.443.2677 | help@syr.edu | http://its.syr.edu | Accessibility | Privacy © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Powered by Atlassian Confluence Adaptavist ThemeBuilder EngineAtlassian Confluence {"serverDuration": 295, "requestCorrelationId": "87278bb3b0db428d"}