Skip to content Skip to quick search Skip to Sidebar Navigation Skip to breadcrumbs Skip to action menu Answers Popular Pages Help & Support Information Technology Support ITS Answers Networking Blackboard Information Security ITS Services and Applications Placement Exams TurningPoint Clickers Telecommunications Duo Two-Factor Authentication Information Technology Support Departments ITS Learning Environments and Media Production Network Wiring Services Academic Services Colleges School of Information Studies College of Law College of Professional Studies Whitman Engineering and Computer Science Arts & Sciences Visual and Performing Arts Falk College School of Education Newhouse Graduate School School of Architecture Maxwell School Other SU Libraries Degree Works - Students Advancement and External Affairs Housing, Meal Plans and ID Card Services Marketing and Communications Disability Resource Portal Information Faculty Affairs University Councils and Committees Center for Online & Digital Learning Chemistry Handshake for Career Services Academic Continuity Online Success Toolkit Center for Learning and Student Success Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition BioInspired Syracuse Women in Leadership Student Experience Information Technology Student Living Spaces Hit enter to search Help Online Help Keyboard Shortcuts Feed Builder What’s new About Confluence Log in ITS Services and Applications Pages Blog Page tree Hidden Fields for Pagetree Hidden Fields for Pagetree ancestorId Space Details Browse pagesConfigureSpace tools action-menu Attachments (11) Page History People who can view Page Information Resolved comments View in Hierarchy View Source Export to PDF Export to Word Dashboard Skip to end of banner Unrestricted11 attachments Jira links Go to start of banner Procurement of Accessible ICT Products and Services PAICT Created by Sharon M Trerise, last modified by Pamela J Thomas on Sep 21, 2021 Accessibility Procurement Requests Instructions The University commits that Information and Communication Technology products and services acquired, adopted, developed or updated after the effective date of the Information and Communication Technology policy (effective: 1/1/18) shall be accessible to individuals with disabilities. This page lists the different request types submitted to and/or reviewed by the Accessibility Assessment Committee (AAC). Purchasing and the Procurement Process – Co-Requirements Securing approval by the AAC following an accessibility review is one of several required steps in the overall procurement process. AAC approval does not take the place of other purchasing requirements which may include the completion of contract terms and conditions, Information Technology security review, and Syracuse University Purchasing Department requirements as set forth in the Syracuse University Purchasing Policy. For questions pertaining to the financial aspect of the procurement process, please contact the Purchasing Department at purchase@syr.edu. How & Where to Obtain Assistance - Accessibility Procurement For assistance in completing an accessibility procurement request, please contact your IT Departmental Support Contact person or IT School and College Support Contact person. If you do not have an IT support contact, you may email accessibleIT@syr.edu for assistance. For a list of online and in-person learning opportunities, see the Procuring Accessible IT: Training Resources page. See the FAQ page for frequently asked questions. See the AAC Past Requests page, for history of software and hardware requests with statuses. Access restricted. See the ICT Accessibility Procurement Process page for a description of the process. Forms & Required Documentation Forms are updated regularly, so please download new document(s) each time. If new to the process, review the Process - Procurement of ICT Products and Services for an overview. Requests submitted to the Accessibility Assessment Committee (AAC): Policy Exclusion Acknowledgement Policy exclusion requests require an informational notification to the AAC. Exclusions must strictly fit one of the exclusion categories in the policy, as outlined in the 'Policy Exclusion Acknowledgement' link. Compliant Software Acknowledgement For software that has been verified as WCAG 2.x A and AA compliant by Syracuse University personnel, an informational notification to the AAC is required. Non-Compliant Software Request Procurement requests for non-compliant software are submitted for review by the AAC. Hardware Request Procurement requests for hardware are submitted for review by the AAC. Requests denied by the AAC may be submitted as an appeal to the Accessibility Compliance Committee (ACC) : Exception Appeal Request In the event that a full review has been completed by the Accessibility Assessment Committee (AAC) and has resulted in a procurement denial, the Policy has provisions to escalate to the Accessibility Compliance Committee (ACC) to request an exception. Exceptions must strictly fit one of the exception categories in the policy, as outlined in the 'Exception Appeal Request' link. Submitting an exception request does not guarantee approval. Child Pages Evaluating ICT Accessibility – Suggested Questions for Vendors Frequently Asked Questions - Accessibility Procurement Requests ICT Accessibility in the Procurement Process Process - Procurement of ICT Products and Services Procuring Accessible IT: Training Resources accessibility-toolkit procurement accessible-it procurement-process aac accessibility-committee For complete results log in with your Syracuse University NetID and password. Can't find it in Answers? Need additional help? Request Help Information Technology Services | Syracuse, NY 13244 | T: 315.443.2677 | help@syr.edu | http://its.syr.edu | Accessibility | Privacy © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Powered by Atlassian Confluence Adaptavist ThemeBuilder EngineAtlassian Confluence {"serverDuration": 420, "requestCorrelationId": "d5d707f125c429f6"}