Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Department of Anthropology Home People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Lecturers Research Scientists Postdoctoral Fellows and Associates Other Anthropologists at Yale Emeritus Graduate Students Staff In Memoriam Academics Graduate Programs Ph.D. Job Placement Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Careers Courses News Calendar Contact Us Welcome Yale University’s Department of Anthropology is home to over thirty faculty, affiliates from many other corners of the University, and scores of graduate students. Our research and teaching interests span the globe, many millions of years of prehistory and history, and the humanities, social sciences, and sciences. Our Ph.D. graduates go on to teach in universities around the world and to pursue research in a wide variety of academic and non-academic settings. Our undergraduate major draws students with a passion for the study of humanity, both in the broadest terms and in the specific social, cultural, historical, and/or biological contexts that have shaped human pasts and presents–and that will shape humans’ collective futures. Calendars Department Calendar Yale College Academic Calendar Yale GSAS Academic Calendar PhD Candidate Jill J. Tan awarded Wenner-Gren Foundation Dissertation Fieldwork Grant May 26, 2022 Jill J. Tan, a third year PhD Candidate in sociocultural anthropology, has been awarded a Wenner-Gren Foundation Dissertation Fieldwork Grant to support her dissertation project, “Corpses Incorporated: The Funeral Profession and the Geopolitics of Death in Singapore.” She is currently in the field... Read more 2022 Anthropology degree recipients Jill Tan and Eric Krebs win university-wide prizes May 23, 2022 Congratulations to Jill J. Tan (M. Phil ’22) and Eric Krebs (B.A. ’22), winners in Yale University’s annual Theron Rockwell Field and John Addison Porter Prize competitions. Tan receives a Field Prize for her multimedia work of hybrid poetry, “Notes on the bicentennial of a f/l/ound/er/ing (2019... Read more Eric Krebs Receives Sapir Prize May 19, 2022 Congratualtions to Eric Krebs, who has received the 2022 Edward Sapir Prize. The Edward Sapir Prize is awarded annually for the most outstanding senior essay by an undergraduate Anthropology major in the areas of Sociocultural and Linguistic Anthropology. Eric won this award for a paper titled “... Read more Raisha Waller Wins Schwartz Prize May 19, 2022 Congratulations to Raisha Waller on receiving the 2022 Schwartz Prize. The Schwartz Prize is awarded annually to the author of the most outstanding senior essay in biological anthropology by an Anthropology major. Raisha won this prize for an essay titled “The Limits of Empathy: Compassion, Fatigue... Read more Rick Bribiescas and Alison Richard elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences May 5, 2022 Yale Anthropology’s Richard Gutierrez Bribiescas and Alison Richard are among eight Yale faculty members—and just 261 new members—elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2022. Visit the Department’s Reproductive Ecology Lab website to learn more about Rick’s pioneering... Read more Click here for more news.. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 10 Sachem Street | New Haven, CT 06511 Phone 203.432.3700 | Fax 203.432.3669 Contact Webmaster Facebook Twitter