Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Anthropology Department of Anthropology Contact Us Facebook Anthropology.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Back to Top Nav Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia Back to Top Nav People People Diversity & Inclusion Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Biological Anthropology Biological anthropology is the study of human biological variation and evolution. Biological anthropologists seek to document and explain the patterning of biological variation among contemporary human populations, trace the evolution of our lineage through time in the fossil record, and provide a comparative perspective on human uniqueness by placing our species in the context of other living primates. Students concentrating in biological anthropology are advised to take a course in statistics, as well as one or more advanced courses in biological sciences. ANTH 06 Introduction to Biological Anthropology The origin of our species has long been a topic of deep curiosity for humans. In this course, we will look at the scientific evidence for the origin and evolution of Homo sapiens. This course will use data from evolutionary theory, primatology, comparative anatomy, genetics, and paleontology to understand the latest hypotheses regarding human evolution and modern human behavioral biology. (BIOL) Dist: SCI. ANTH 12.18 Anthropology and the Forensic Sciences Forensic anthropology is the application of the science of anthropology and its subfields, including Biological (physical) Anthropology, Cultural Anthropology (Ethnology), and Archeology, in a legal setting. Traditionally the forensic anthropologist will assist law enforcement agencies in the retrieval and identification of unidentified human remains. This course will introduce the student to various anthropological sub-disciplines used in the fields of forensics, including: (1) search for clandestine burials; (2) excavation and retrieval of human remains; (3) identification of human remains (sex, age, race, cause of death, and pathology); (4) handling of evidence; (5) interaction with law enforcement agencies; (6) presentation of data, results and evidence; (7) review of forensic and anthropological case studies; and (8) guest lectures. (ARCH, BIOL) Dist: SCI ANTH 20 Primate Evolution and Ecology Humans are primates. The biology of our species cannot be fully understood outside of this context. This course offers a broad survey of living nonhuman primate diversity. The physical, behavioral, and ecological attributes of each of the major groups of primates will be discussed. Emphasis will be placed on traits relating to diet, locomotion, growth, mating, and social systems. Students will gain a comparative perspective on humankind. (BIOL) Dist: SCI. ANTH 25 Primate Biomechanics This course is an introduction to the physical principles and musculoskeletal anatomies that underlie primate behavior, including especially primate locomotion and diet. We will study basic mechanics, bone biology, soft tissue and skeletal anatomy, primate behavioral diversity, and the primate fossil record in order to address why bones are shaped the way they are, and how scientists reconstruct behavior from fossils. Emphasis will be on primate locomotion, including the origins and evolution of human bipedalism. (BIOL) Dist: SCI ANTH 38 Human Behavioral Ecology The human condition is characterized by immense biological and behavioral variation. The extent to which such variation is adaptive is topic a great importance and controversy. Current research in the field of human behavioral ecology reflects a growing interaction between the social and biological sciences. The objectives of this course are to critically examine the origin and development of this discipline and to survey the physiological and behavioral ways that humans interact with their environment. (BIOL) Dist: SCI. ANTH 40 Human Functional Anatomy Anatomy is a science of nomenclature; it provides a universal language for understanding how and why form supports function. Such a biomechanical conceptual framework can inform our understanding of human biology. Yet the anatomical novelties that characterize modern humans are best appreciated when contextualized against living nonhuman primates and the hominin fossil record. Student grades will be based on a mastery of concepts from lectures and labs featuring cadavers, skeletal materials, models, and casts. (BIOL) Dist: SLA. ANTH 41 Human Evolution The fossil record demonstrates that humans evolved from an extinct ape that lived in Africa more than 5 million years ago. Paleoanthropology is the branch of biological anthropology that seeks to document and explain the evolution of our lineage using paleontological and archaeological data. This course provides a survey of human evolution in light of current scientific debates in paleoanthropology. Emphasis will be placed on the use of bones and teeth to infer the biology and behavior of prehistoric species. Prerequisite: Anthropology 6 or permission of the instructor. (BIOL) Dist: SCI. ANTH 42 Gross Anatomy: Scars of Medical Evolution Human anatomy is important for medical professionals, artists, and anthropologists. This dissection-based course will explore the human body and its many imperfections. The deficiencies of our bodies —clumsy compromises in our teeth, feet, backs, bottoms, and birthings— are chronic clinical concerns that reflect our evolutionary history. Taking a cue from Wilton Krogman’s 1951 classic, Scars of Human Evolution, this course will demonstrate how and how far the human body fails by the standards of intelligent design. (BIOL) Dist: SLA ANTH 43 Human Osteology Human osteology is an important component of biological anthropology, with applications in archaeology, paleontology, forensics, and medicine. This course is designed to acquaint students with the normal anatomy of the human skeleton. Our focus is the identification of isolated and fragmentary skeletal remains. Students are introduced to principles of bone growth and remodeling, biomechanics, morphological variation within and between populations, pathology, ancient DNA, taphonomy, and forensics. Practical techniques are developed in regular laboratory sessions. Prerequisite: Anthropology 6 or permission of the instructor. (BIOL) Dist: SLA. ANTH 50.44 Darwin and Human Evolution This course explores what we have learned about human evolution, behavior, and biological diversity in the 150 years since Charles Darwin wrote The Descent of Man. The course will coincide with a Winter symposium in which the contributing authors of A Most Interesting Problem: What Darwin's Descent of Man Got Right and Wrong about Human Evolution will visit campus, give talks, and engage with our students. ANTH 50.44 is designed for anthropology and biology majors. (BIOL) Dist: SCI ANTH 50.23 DNA, Identity, and Power DNA has become a powerful but sometimes controversial tool for making knowledge about humans and our connections to one another. As both scientists and the public gain access to unprecedented amounts of genomic information, DNA evidence has become increasingly incorporated into political claims about race, gender and sexual identities, as well as issues of group belonging, cultural heritage, and the basis of complex traits and behaviors. This course is centered around critical engagement with the various identity politics that are unfolding around genomics, and discerning the ways that culture and history shape how knowledge is produced in and through DNA. (BIOL or CULT) Dist: SOC ANTH 50.30 Human and Comparative Gross Anatomy Human and Comparative Gross Anatomy is a laboratory class that offers undergraduate students the rare opportunity to learn anatomy through anatomical dissection. Students will work in small teams to dissect human body donors, with various other vertebrate animals also available for dissection and study. Cadaver dissection is the best method by which to learn about the structures of the human body, their integration, and, most importantly, variation among humans. This is an intensive course, requiring hours of study both in the lab and from texts, but it rewards you for those hours with a strong understanding of anatomy. (BIOL) Dist: SLA ANTH 50.43 Social, Environmental, and Health Impacts of Human Conflict This course will introduce students to the impacts of genocide, war, and other forms of structural violence on population, individual, and environmental health. Students will examine these impacts primarily from public health, life history, and ecosystem perspectives. This course also asks students to think critically about opportunities for scholarly contributions to prevent and/or mitigate these impacts. (CULT or BIOL) Dist: SOC WCult: NW ANTH 62 Health and Disease in Evolutionary Perspective This course explores how principles from biological anthropology can provide insight into human health and disease. This course also asks students to critically analyze prevailing medical concepts of 'normal' physiology and illness. We adopt a comparative approach to consider the evolutionary, physiological, and cultural bases of human health and disease by examining case studies in the following areas: i) human diet and nutrition ii) demography, life history, and reproduction iii) pathogens, parasites, and immunity. (BIOL) Dist: SCI. ANTH 64 Evolution of Pregnancy, Birth, and Babies This course examines human universals and cross-cultural variation in pregnancy, birth, and infant development. In the first section, principles of life history theory and human reproductive ecology are introduced, and students will learn how assisted birth evolved in humans. In the second section, students will analyze expectations and systems of pregnancy, birth, and infant care in a cross-cultural context. Throughout the course, students will evaluate current controversies surrounding medical models of childbirth, breastfeeding, and co-sleeping. (BIOL) Dist: INT or SCI. ANTH 66 Human Biological Variation How do human populations adapt to their local environments? What is more important for influencing human variation—genes or the environment? In this course you will learn about patterns of modern human biological variation as well as research methods employed by biological anthropologists to study these patterns. You will also learn important skills for all anthropologists, including hypothesis generation, study design, how to write a grant, and how to be an effective reviewer. (BIOL) Dist: SCI. ANTH 70 Experiencing Human Origins and Evolution This course will examine current evidence for human origins and evolution, with a particular emphasis on South Africa. Students will learn and experience firsthand how fossils, archaeological sites, and living model systems are used collectively to reconstruct and interpret the path and circumstances by which we became human. A course extension in South Africa will be offered to enable direct experience with the sites, organisms, and challenges discussed in class. (BIOL) Dist: SCI. ANTH 74 The Human Spectrum Culminating experience. Contemporary foraging peoples are often viewed as ecological relicts and therefore instructive models for understanding the selective pressures that gave rise to the human condition. The objective of this course is to critically evaluate this enduring concept by examining the spectrum of human interactions with tropical habitats. We will also evaluate the basis of recent popular trends – the paleo diet, raw foodism, barefoot running, parent-child co-sleeping – that emphasize the advantages of a “natural” pre-agricultural lifestyle. (BIOL) Dist: SOC; WCult: NW. ANTH 76 The Evolution of Upright Walking Culminating experience. This is an advanced course designed to explore in-depth both the historical and current understandings of human bipedalism. This course is reading-intensive, with an average of 5 primary journal papers assigned per meeting. We will investigate hypotheses for why bipedalism evolved, the form of locomotion bipedalism evolved from, and the fossil evidence for early hominin bipedality in the ardipithecines and australopithecines. (BIOL) Dist: SCI. Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Transfer Credits Careers Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia People People Diversity & Inclusion My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback