Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Department of Anthropology Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us Research and Teaching People Degrees Events News Courses Through Fall 2022 Graduate Student Life Department Administration Forms & Documents Administrative Calendar Directory of University Offices and Services Equity and Diversity Helpful Links Rights and Protections Information for Visiting Scholars About Us Early History Where We Are The Media Room Partner Programs Center for Comparative Media Center for Palestine Studies Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race Center for the Study of Social Difference Columbia Center for Archaeology Department of Middle East, South Asia, and Africa Studies Institute for Comparative Literature and Society Institute for the Study of Sexuality and Gender Middle East Institute South Asia Institute Columbia Center for Archaeology Art, Objects, Public Makings Empires, States, Sovereignties Gender, Sexuality, Genealogy, Ancestrality Human/Animal Relations, Bodies, Medicine Indigeneities, Diasporas Institutions, Law, Governmentality Intellectual and Disciplinary Histories Language, Social Theory, Critical Theory Media, Technology, Infrastructure & Urbanism Museums, Archives, Practices of Memory Slavery, Colonialism, Race, Racial Capitalism Text, Translation, Writing, Aesthetics Theater, Ritual, Performance Toxicity, Environment & Ciimate Crisis Value, Commodities, Gift and Debt War, Nationalism, Displacement, Trauma ANTHROPOLOGY AND THE SCHOLARLY PUBLIC SPHERE CREATIVE WORKS, AESTHETIC INTERVENTIONS Publications Dissertations Administration and Staff Directory Faculty Directory PhD Student Directory MA Student Directory Alumni: Beyond Columbia Undergraduate Program Overview Requirements in Sociocultural Anthropology Requirements in Archaeological Anthropology Senior Thesis Seminar FREQUENTLY TAUGHT COURSES - UNDERGRADUATE Funding Opportunities for Undergraduate Students Graduate Programs PhD Program Track in Sociocultural Anthropology Track in Archaeology Student Handbook Scheps Workshops Affiliated Programs Tips for Applying to the PhD Program MA Program MA in Sociocultural Anthropology MA in Museum Anthropology Affiliated Programs FREQUENTLY TAUGHT COURSES - GRADUATE All Events Franz Boas Seminars - 2021-2022 Franz Boas Seminars - 2020 -2021 Past Franz Boas Seminars Ruth Benedict Lectures - 2022 Ruth Benedict Lecture Series Online Events Diversity & Equity Grant to Support Enhanced Research and Pedagogy for Graduate Students Graduate Student Achievements and Congratulations Graduate Student Events and Activities Past Scheps Workshops Graduate Teaching Resources Resources for Graduate Research, Writing and Jobs Alumni Stories Hurston-Deloria Fellowships for Doctoral Study Department of Anthropology AAAHome - NEW HOME PAGE Image Carousel with 12 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Shooting Tripoli Cancelled at Ellinikon Airport, Athens. © Naeem Mohaiemen Slide 2: 'Love in the NY Underground,' © John Pemberton Slide 3: Still from "The Mermaids, Or Aiden In Wonderland" (2018). © Karrabing Film Collective Slide 4: Rusty Rheingold beer cans Slide 5: 'Crossing the Road' © Benjamin Liberatore Slide 6: Macchi Pichu © Terence D'Altroy Slide 7: Tholpava koothu shadow puppet, back stage, © Suyash Dwivedi Slide 8: 'Elvis is in the House' © John Pemberton Slide 9: 'The Cut' © John Pemberton Slide 10: Still from 'We are Zama Zama' @ Rosalind C. Morris Slide 11: 'Mount Sinai-St.Catherine' @ Hadeel Assali Slide 12: Block Cave Mandible @ Hannah Chazin Shooting Tripoli Cancelled at Ellinikon Airport, Athens. © Naeem Mohaiemen 'Love in the NY Underground,' © John Pemberton Still from "The Mermaids, Or Aiden In Wonderland" (2018). © Karrabing Film Collective Rusty Rheingold beer cans 'Crossing the Road' © Benjamin Liberatore Macchi Pichu © Terence D'Altroy Tholpava koothu shadow puppet, back stage, © Suyash Dwivedi 'Elvis is in the House' © John Pemberton 'The Cut' © John Pemberton Still from 'We are Zama Zama' @ Rosalind C. Morris 'Mount Sinai-St.Catherine' @ Hadeel Assali Block Cave Mandible @ Hannah Chazin Previous Next WELCOME The Department of Anthropology, established by Franz Boas in 1902, is the oldest in the United States and remains a center of disciplinary innovation and theoretical leadership. The department’s faculty members are actively engaged in research and writing about issues of both pressing contemporary relevance and historical significance. Our scholars work in regions and language traditions around the globe and in the United States, as do our students. We operate doctoral degree programs in both sociocultural anthropology and archaeology, and host two distinct MA programs, one in sociocultural anthropology and the other in museum anthropology. In addition, we offer rigorous undergraduate training toward both the major and the concentration, and welcome students from other disciplines into our classes. More. Department wins major grant to support diversity and equity Upcoming Events Jun16Thu Rosalind Morris's new opera, Southern Crossings, opens June 16 7:30 PM - 9:00 PM Jun28Tue 'Naming Touch' Symposium with Maria José de Abreu and Rosalind Morris Institute for Cultural Inquiry Berlin 3:00 PM - 9:00 PM More Events News May 31, 2022 More congratulations: Hala Habib and Chloé Faux Hala Habib has won a fellowship for historical research on the built environment from the Temple Hoyne Buell Center for the Study of American Architecture. Chloé Faux has been awarded funding from the Institute for the Study of Economic Research and Policy for a conference on “(Re) Inventions of Africa: Flows of Knowledge, between Anthropology, Africa and the Diaspora.” May 29, 2022 Rosalind Morris's film acquired by BBC's 'Africa Eye' 'We are Zama Zama,' a documentary film by Rosalind Morris about the plight of illegalized migrants scavenging n South Africa's ruined gold mines, has been acquired by BBC for broadcast on its Africa Eye series. The television broadcast version has been re-edited, translated and dubbed into Swahili, Hausa and French for continental distribution in Africa, which starts May 31. May 20, 2022 Congratulations to Classes of 2022, 2021, and 2020 Commendations for the classes of 2020-2022! We congratulate the following PhD and MA students for earning degrees in these most recent, difficult years. More News PROGRAMS OF STUDY OUR RESEARCH AND TEACHING INTERESTS The research interests of our faculty and students cover a broad range of theoretical and empirical questions, and our scholarly and personal engagements traverse an equally wide range of geopolitical and territorial domains. Broadly speaking, these interests can be grouped under the thematic headings indicated by the icons below. On the pages linked to the icons, you will find: a brief description of the issues and the Department’s historical relationship to them; a list of faculty members whose research and writing addresses these themes; a list of courses covering related questions and problems; and select publications on these subjects by our faculty members. OTHER FACULTY ACTIVITIES AND ENGAGEMENTS HOT OFF THE PRESS: NEW AND RECENT FACULTY PUBLICATIONS Partha Chatterjee, The Truths and Lies of Nationalism, as narrated by Charvak Claudio Lomnitz, Nuestra América. My Family in the Vertigo of Translation Maria José de Abreu, The Charismatic Gymnasium: Breath, Media and Religious Revivalism in Contemporary Brazil Elizabeth A. Povinelli, The Inheritance Mahmood Mamdani, Neither Settler nor Native: The Making and Unmaking of Permanent Minorities Brian Boyd, 'Critical discourse and creative labors: learning and teaching archaeology' (with John D. Barrett) Michael Taussig, Mastery of Non-Mastery in the Age of Meltdown Lila Abu-Lughod, 'Imagining Palestine’s Alter-Natives: Settler Colonialism and Museum Politics' Mara Green, 'Sign Language Ideologies: Practices and Politics' (with A. Kusters, E. Moriarty-Harrelson, and K. Snoddon) Marilyn J. Ivy, 'This is (Not) a Gallows' Audra Simpson, 'The Sovereignty of Critique' Rosalind C. Morris, Accounts and Drawings from Underground (new and revised edition), with William Kentridge Visit our media room, and learn more about what our faculty members are doing and saying. Department of Anthropology1200 Amsterdam Avenue, Schermerhorn Extension, Room 452 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-4552 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close