/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Anthropology Major Anthropology Minors Graduate Program Ph.D. Handbook Courses Engaged Anthropology Pathways in Anthropology Transfer Credit People Core Department Faculty Graduate Field Faculty Emeritus Faculty Adjunct/Affiliated Faculty and Post-docs Current Graduate Students Research Recent Faculty Books Complete Archive of Faculty Books About Us Alumni Anthropology Collections Department Contacts Department History Student Groups The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Tracing the human career from the emergence of the species to the contemporary global moment Department of Anthropology The Department of Archaeology faculty conduct ethnographic and archaeological as well as biological research that brings hard-won fieldwork to the development of cutting edge social and cultural theories. Our students and faculty work around the globe: from Ithaca, India and Indonesia to the Caribbean and Central America; from Japan, Africa and Nepal to China and the Caucasus; and from the circumpolar North to the Global South. Popular Destinations Faculty About the department Anthropology major Graduate program Research Anthropology news Congratulations to our 2022 Graduates Congrats and best wishes! Read More Reunion 2022 features host of A&S events A number of special events are planned in the College of Arts & Sciences to celebrate Reunion 2022. Read More Featured Anthropology Minor: Atif Akhter '22 I'm excited to see where my background in Anthropology can take me. I've learned so much about the world through the minor and the skills I've picked up over the years will definitely help me in my future. Read More Featured Anthropology Major: Abraham Moss '22 Anthropology enlivens the mind most with the richness of specifics, the thick descriptions that bring the pages to life. Read More Featured Anthropology Major: Grace Staes '22 For Students in anthropology, the best piece of advice I have is to let anthropology be the frame for whatever you want to study. Let It be the back door to a problem so that your interventions can be new. Read More Einaudi awards fund global research and activities Seed grants, student travel grants and internships totaling $355,000 in the 2021–22 academic year supported international work done by many A&S faculty and students. Read More Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More Migrations grants fund worldwide interdisciplinary projects Cornell faculty and their community partners will tell the stories of local migrant farmworkers, use documentary film to better understand climate change and dispossession, learn how migratory birds are affected by drug trafficking and more. Read More More Anthropology news Undergraduate Study Anthropology provides the global perspective and critical thinking skills that will open doors to a wide range of career paths. The major will also prepare you for graduate study in anthropology. Student Opportunities: Global Health Program in Tanzania Cornell in India: Nilgiris Field Learning Center Academic Honors Program Cornell Institute of Archaeology and Material Studies Anthro Events Sep 30 Anthropology Colloquium: Alexander Blanchette McGraw Hall Oct 21 Anthropology Colloquium: Melissa Burch McGraw Hall Oct 28 Anthropology Colloquium: Kimberley McKinson McGraw Hall See all events Department Collections The Anthropology Collections include approximately 20,000 items representing human activity around the world from the Lower Paleolithic to the present. Archaeological and ethnographic materials are about equally represented. More about Anthropology Collections Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York State, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. 261 McGraw Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email A&S Departments 607-255-5137 Twitter Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top