Apply Visit Give Skip to Content University of Oregon UO Home | Dept Index CAS Anthropology Department of Anthropology Menu Welcome About Us People Undergraduate Graduate Research Museum Events Useful Links Contact Us About Us Origin of the Department Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Visitor Information Donate Contact Us Faculty Login Graduate Login + Submenu Biological Anthropology Course list – Biological Anthropology Checklist We apply an evolutionary perspective to a broad array of topics in biological anthropology. Our faculty and student body is highly cohesive and diverse with research excellence in evolutionary medicine and primate evolution. Our work involves the study of humans and their closest relatives, the non-human primates, through a variety of complementary field and lab approaches. Areas of research include human biology, human behavioral ecology, molecular anthropology, paleontology, and primatology. We have been funded by the National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation, World Health Organization, and various private foundations and international agencies, and our work has been published in Nature, Science, and the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. We are highly interdisciplinary natural scientists with ongoing collaborations with one another, other anthropological subfields, researchers across the UO campus, and scientists around the world. Core Faculty Scott Blumenthal L. Zachary DuBois Stephen R. Frost J. Josh Snodgrass Kirstin N. Sterner Larry S. Sugiyama Nelson Ting Larry Ulibarri Frances J. White Department of Anthropology 1218 University of Oregon Eugene OR 97403 541-346-5102 Main Office – 308 Condon Hall Search for: Condon Hall Building Hours 7:00 am – 7:00 pm 1321 Kincaid Street Eugene, OR 97403 Donate Contact Us Faculty Login Graduate Login © 2022 University of Oregon. Privacy Policy. Developed by Development Services Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.