Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Anthropology Department of Anthropology Contact Us Facebook Anthropology.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Back to Top Nav Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia Back to Top Nav People People Diversity & Inclusion Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes Ethnography Lab Videos Share McKennan Postdoc Fellowship The Robert A. 1925 and Catherine L.McKennan Postdoctoral Fellowship in Anthropology provides promising young scholars with an opportunity to research, write, and teach at Dartmouth college for a period of 2-3 years. In keeping with the four-field nature of our discipline and the department's commitment to an holistic vision of anthropology, postdoctoral fellows rotate between the subfields of sociocultural, archaeological, biological and linguistic anthropology. Outcrop at the prehistoric quarry at the Stevens Site, Piscataquis County, Maine. Nathaniel R. Kitchel A test pit with a layer of tested chert blocks at the prehistoric quarry local at the Stevens Site, Piscataquis County, Maine. Nathaniel R. Kitchel Theresa E. Gildner processing Shuar participant fecal samples and preparing slides, which she examines using light microscopy to diagnose soil-transmitted helminth infections. An example of a completed slide under the microscope. Theresa E. Gildner PreviousNext 2018-2020 Theresa E. Gildner Ph.D. in Biological Anthropology, University of Oregon, 2018. "Life history tradeoffs between testosterone and immune function among Shuar forager-horticulturalists of Amazonian Ecuador." 2018-2019 Nathaniel R. Kitchel Ph.D. in Anthropology, University of Wyoming, Laramie, Wyoming, 2016. "Tracing the Paths of Those Who Came First: An Evaluation of Continental Scale Colonization Models in the Glaciated Northeast." 2016-2017 Jeffrey Dobereiner Ph.D. in Anthropology, Harvard University, 2016. "Incorporative Frontiers of Formative Mesoamerica: Archaeology and Identity at Rancho Búfalo, Chiapas, Mexico." 2014-2016 Benjamin T. Valentine Ph.D. in Anthropology, University of Florida, 2013. "Immigrant Identity in the Indus Civilization: A Multi-Site Isotopic Mortuary Analysis." 2012-2015 Chelsey Kivland Ph.D. in Anthropology. University of Chicago, 2012. "We Make the State": Performance, Politick, and Respect in Urban Haiti." 2007-2012 Christopher Ball Ph.D. in Linguistics and Anthropology. University of Chicago, 2007. "Out of the Park: Trajectories of Wauja (Xingu Arawak) Language and Culture." 2006-2007 Seth Dobson Ph.D. in Physical Anthropology, Washington University in St. Louis, 2005. "Comparative Study of Facial Mobility in Anthropoid Primates." Seth Dobson BLOG 2004-2006 Joanne Cullinane Ph.D. in Anthropology, University of Chicago, 2004. "Domesticating AIDS: Illness, Identity, and Stigma in Contemporary Japan." 2003-2004 Brian Didier Ph.D. in Social Anthropology, University of Cambridge, 2001. "The Scars of Piety: Islam and the Dynamics of Religious Dispute on Androth Island, South India." 2002-2003 Paul Kockelman Ph.D. in Anthropology, University of Chicago, 2002. 2000-2002 Kathryn Keith Ph.D. in Anthropology and Near Eastern Studies, 1999. "Cities, Neighborhoods, and Houses: Urban Spatial Organization in Old Babylonian Mesopotamia." 1998-2000 Christine Kray Ph.D. in Anthropology, University of Pennsylvania, 1997. "Worship in Body and Spirit: Practice, Self and Religious Sensibility in Yucatán." 1996-1998 Michelle L. Goldsmith Ph.D. in Physical Anthropology, State University of New York at Stony Brook, 1995. 1995-1996 Lindsay C. French Ph.D. in Social Anthropology, Harvard University, 1994. "Enduring Holocaust, Surviving History: Displaced Cambodians on the Thai-Cambodian Border, 1989-1991." 1994-1995 Sangmee Bak Ph.D. in Social Anthropology, Harvard University, 1994. "Professional Women's Work, Family, and Kinship in Urban Taiwan." Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia People People Diversity & Inclusion My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback