Anthropology@Princeton Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Anthropology@Princeton Main Menu Menu Home Fields Department Submenu Contact Us Join our Mailing List Academic Reports People Submenu Faculty Associated Faculty Emeritus Faculty Visiting Faculty Lecturers Postdoctoral Fellows Staff Other Anthropologists at Princeton Graduate Students Undergraduate Submenu Why Anthropology Current Majors Submenu 2021-2022 FAQs Important Dates Internship Milestone Credit Prospective Majors Submenu Declaring Anthropology Declaring Anthropology FAQs Declaring Anthropology, Step-by-Step Track Requirements Submenu Sociocultural Anthropology Medical Anthropology Law, Politics, and Economics Compare Tracks Course Information Submenu Cognates Courses Pre-approved Electives Independent Work Submenu Junior Paper Submenu JP Titles Senior Thesis Submenu Senior theses & awards IRB Careers What is Ethnography? FAQs / Contacts Submenu Approval for Course Taken at Another Institution Graduate Submenu Course of Study How To Apply Current Student Research Student Placement Dissertation Titles FAQs / Contacts Courses Courses Programs Submenu VizE Lab Submenu About Submenu People Partners Projects Submenu Duma Doyal Resources Submenu Tip Sheets Tools Links Courses News Center on Transnational Policing Submenu About the Center on Transnational Policing News and Events News & Events Submenu News Events Submenu Event Archives Events Calendar VizE Lab SubMenu News Transnational Policing Log in Search Search Anthropology@Princeton Congratulations Professor Coyle Rosen! May 24, 2022 Congratulations Jagat Sohail! May 6, 2022 Congratulations to Wenner-Gren Winners April 15, 2022 Declaration Day 2022 April 13, 2022 Statement of Solidarity January 26, 2021 1 / 5 < > Ada Amobi '09 As a physician, I am constantly talking with patients in an effort to better understand their lived experiences. My anthropology education helps me be a better listener and to ask more meaningful questions during patient interactions. Spotlight on Professor Agustín Fuentes Dr. Fuentes’ current projects focus on the dynamic interactions of biocultural, cognitive and ethnographic approaches to human behavior, and the misrepresentations of human evolution, biology and diversity. Ethnographic Data Visualization Lab The VizE Lab is the campus hub for researchers who want to bring the insights of data visualization and the vitality of documentary filmmaking into humanistic ethnography. Center on Transnational Policing The CTP will bring together Princeton scholars and students to understand policing in the U.S. and internationally. As the hub of a wider social scientific research network, the Center’s mission will be to explore policing from a transnational approach. News Lauren Coyle Rosen receives President's Award for Distinguished Teaching May 24, 2022 Class Day 2022 Program May 23, 2022 Read PhD Student Kymberley Chu's blog on Platypus, The CASTAC Blog May 13, 2022 View All News Events No upcoming events found. View All Events The University's response to coronavirus Information for the University Community about Coronavirus Visit the University's Spring 2021 site and covid.princeton.edu to learn more about how Princeton University is actively monitoring the situation around coronavirus (Covid-19) and the evolving guidance from government and health authorities. Footer Department of Anthropology 116 Aaron Burr Hall Princeton, NJ 08544 Tel: (609) 258-4549 | Fax: (609) 258-1032 Contact Us | Intranet Facebook Twitter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University