Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Anthropology Department of Anthropology Contact Us Facebook Anthropology.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Back to Top Nav Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia Back to Top Nav People People Diversity & Inclusion Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes Ethnography Lab Videos Share Student Research Projects Goodman Student Research 2020-21 Uyen Dang (S. Craig) "Being With: Place, Memory, Silence in Young Saigon" Video of 2021 Goodman Symposium: Anthropology Honors Thesis Presentation by Uyen Dang, Dartmouth &amp;#039;21 Michael Green (E. Carpenter-Song) "Half a Heart but Full of Life: Lived Experience of Families Battling Severe Congenital Heart Disease" Video of 2021 Goodman Symposium: Anthropology Honors Thesis Presentation by Michael Green, Dartmouth &amp;#039;21 Goodman Student Research 2019-20 Calista Almer "The Gateways Project 2019:Exploring the History of 17thC. Inuit Settlement on the Quebec Lower North Shore" N. Dominy Zoe Brown "Healing Spaces: The Significance of Space, Place, and Social Environment in North American Retreat Centers" Watch Zoe's Video Here S. Craig Pablo Correa "Micro-Artifact Analysis of Public Space in Tlajinga District of Teotihuacan" Watch Pablo's Video Here D. Nichols Luke Fannin "Using non-primate models (Enhydra, Bathyergidae) to inform the ecological interpretations of Paranthropus boisei" N. Dominy Grant Gutierrez "Environmental Justice Dimensions of River Restoration in the Puget Sound" L. Ogdent April Johnson "Near or Afar: The Question of Classic Teotihuacán Style Pottery" Watch April's Video Here D. Nichols Elise Laugier "Testing the Agriculture-Complexity Relationship: A Diachronic Phytolith and FTIR Testing the Agriculture-Complexity Relationship: A Diachronic Phytolith and FTIR" J. Casana Catherine Miller "Hominin Taxonomic Diversity and Behavior at Laetoli, Tanzania" J. DeSilva Anjali Prabhat "Excavation and Conservation of Fossil Footprints at Laetoli, Tanzania" Watch Anjali's Video Here J. DeSilva Goodman Student Research 2017-18 Kalei Akau "Kanaka Maoli Identity Articulation: Asserting Political and Cultural Sovereignty through Law and Hula" J. Watanabe Kira Beaudette "Archaeological Survey in Eastern Mongolia" B. Frohlich Keira Byno "Discovering a new fossil pelvis fragment from Australopithecus sediba -- implications for obstetrics and locomotion" J. DeSilva Crystal Clements "Portraits of Postpartum Depression: Interpretations, Surveillance and the Lived-Experiences of Postpartum Depression for African-American Mothers in Washington D.C." E. Carpenter-Song and C. Kivland Michael Everett "Exploring the effects of habitual rock climbing on phalangeal curvature in a primate model system, the Chacma baboon (Papio ursinus)" N. Dominy Samuel Gochman "Tarsier Goggles: Primate Perception in Virtual Reality" N. Dominy Kennedy Jensen "Running a Blurry Line: Lived Experiences of Disorder Eating among Female Distance Runners" E. Carpenter-Song Elise Laugier "Reconstructing Land-Use Histories in Environmentally Transitional Zones (Kurdish Region, Iraq)" J. Casana Goodman Student Research 2016-17 Julia Cohen "Embodying the Role of the Caretaker: A Study of Gendered Labor and Cross-Cultural Care in New York City" S.Craig and C. Kivland Michaela Caplan "Normative Culture at Dartmouth" J. Watanabe Samuel Gochman "Alcohol discrimination and preferences in nectar-feeding primates" N. Dominy Alyssa Loyless "Altica Archaeological Project: Formative Figurine Analysis" D. Nichols Ellison McNutt "Plantigrade adaptations in the Primate Calcaneus" J. DeSilva Iris Wang "Exploring Inuit and Indian Responses to Climate Shifts and Cross-Cultural Contacts with Europeans at the Arctic-Subarctic Boundary in Labrador-Quebec" W. Fitzhugh ’64 Goodman Student Research 2015-16 Emily Albrecht "Mapping Memories, Creating Histories: The American Legation in Morocco" D. Eickelman Georgianna Anderson & Connor Gibson "Sharing the Mountain: A Collection of Stories at the Moosilauke Ravine Lodge" E. Carpenter-Song, S. Craig Michaela Caplan "Normative Culture at Dartmouth" J. Watanabe Samuel Gochman "Alcohol Discrimination and Preferences of Nectar-Feeding Primates" N. Dominy Alyssa Loyless "Altica Archaeological Project: Formative Figurine Analysis" D. Nichols Jacob Marchman "Exploring Culture, Contacts and Migration at the Forest-Tundra Boundary in Northern Canada" W. Fitzhugh Hannah McGehee "Exploring Culture, Contacts and Migration at the Forest-Tundra Boundary in Northern Canada" S. Craig Ellison McNutt Plantigrade Adaptations in the Primate Calcaneus J . DeSilva Alyssa Steeger "Through the Looking Glass: Food Choices as a Mirror of Lived Experiences and Identity" S. Craig Adelaida Tamayo "An Ethnographic Look at "Arte sin Fronteras" in Bogotá, Colombia" J. Watanabe 2015 Goodman Presentations Video of vbRBEdBeqgk Video of oq-TY7hVPzM Goodman Students Research 2014-15 Aaron Ellis "The Culture of the Craft Beer Revolution: American Microbreweries’ Reaction to Prohibition Laws in the 21st Century" J. Watanabe Lindsey Lam "Child’s Play and Cultural Change in Huaycán, Peru" J. Watanabe Hannah McGehee "Living with Fibromyalgia: Communicating Pain through Oral Narrative and Creative Expression" S. Craig ﻿Colin Quinn "Chiquilistagua Archaeological Project: A Settlement Study along the Pre-Columbian Corridors in Nicaragua" D. Nichols Thomas Kraft and Vivek Venkataraman "Batek then and now: genealogy and social network structure across four decades in Kelantan and Pahang, Peninsular Malaysia" N. Dominy Colin Walmsley "Queer Youth Homelessness in New York City" S. Craig Katie Williamson "Exploring Sustainable Communities and the Ecovillage Model at Cobb Hill Cohousing Community" K. Bauer, L. Ogden Goodman Student Research 2013-14 Luke Decker "Learning from the Iraqi Experience: Camp Dwellers vs. Urban Refugees" D. Eickelman Karolina Krelinova "Challenging the Past: Civil Society and Politics of Identity in Serbia" S. Kan Andrés Gabriel Mejía-Ramón "Local Hydrology in Teotihuacan: A Study of Ancient Canals and Water Basins" D. Nichols Ben Nguyen "Self-Ethnography of a Marshallese Health Crisis: An Anthropological Study in Health Education" J. Watanabe Colin Quinn "Chiquilistagua Archaeological Project: A Settlement Study along the Pre-Columbian Corridors in Nicaragua" D. Nichols Archana Ramanujam "Mental Wellbeing and the Dartmouth Ethos: An Ethnographic Study of the Subjectivities of Female Students of Color" L. Gulbas Victoria Trump Redd "Cultural Health and Political and Structural Violence in Carabayllo, Peru" J. Watanabe Goodman Student Research 2012-13 Alexandra Aird "Selling the "Supernatural": The Social Impacts of Haunted Tourism in Salem, Massachusetts" S. Kan Collin Burks "The Impact of a Local Immigration Enforcement Program on Latino Migrants' Health Care-Seeking Strategies" J. Watanabe, L. Gutiérrez Nájera Sarah Cashdollar "Pregnancy and Motherhood as Identity Negotiation: Latina Youth in the Colonias of Southern New Mexico" L. Gulbas, D. Eickelman Sarah-Marie Hopf "The Anthropology of Human-Centered Design for Social Impact: From Silicon Valley to Myanmar and Nepal" S. Craig August Oddleifson "Chronic Illness and Identity Formation" J. Watanabe Michael Otte "The Ritual of Santiago: Bringing the Transcendent to the Secular World" J. Watanabe Jacqueline Waugh "Female Participation in Civil Society in Tajikistan" D. Eickelman Miriam Winthrop "Emotional Wellbeing Among Schoolchildren in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania" E. Carpenter-Song, L. Adams, and T. Lahey Goodman Student Research 2011-12 Manisha Apte ’12 "Conceptualizing Prenatal Health Care Services in Rural Gujarat, India" L. Gutiérrez Nájera, S. Craig Christian Brandt ’12 "The Home-less Homeless: Theories of Home and their effect on the homeless and housing programs in Copenhagen, Denmark" L. Gutiérrez Nájera Gillian Britton ’14 "Microbiome Evolution and Baboon Hybridization in the Awash of Ethiopia" N. Dominy Arielle Cannon ’12 "Ancient Histories, New Identities: The Construction of Afro-Venezuelan Identity Through Education" J. Watanabe Kyle Heppenstall ’13 "The Energetics and Ecology of Vertical Climbing in Humans" N. Dominy Jennifer Koester ’12 "The Effects of Foreign Influences and Local Needs on the Goals of a Women's Empowerment NGO in North India" J. Igoe Stefanie Lazow ’12 "Increased Facial Mobility in Gelada Baboons: A Case Study of the Lip-Flip" S. Dobson Sanja Miklin ’12 "Owning an ‘aggressive’ dog in the contemporary United States" J. Watanabe Vaidehi Mujumdar ’13 "Ethnographic Study of Food Perceptions and Nurturance in Nalasopara District, Mumbai, India" C. Ball Vivek Venkataraman "Feeding ecology and dental morphology in a gramnivorous primate, Theropithecus gelada" N. Dominy Goodman Student Research 2010-11 Kalina Newmard and Nacole Walker "Ethnic construction on the borderlands: An experiment and analysis of "Native American-accented English" dialect features" J. Stanford, C. Ball Marielle Brown "New acid preparation technique for fossil samples in breccia" – To be presented at the AAPA meetings April 12 - April 16, 2011 K. Muldoon Bruce Jobse "Strategic Healthcare Decisions by the Marginalized Agriculturalist Households of Constanza-Tireo in the Dominican Republic within an environment of Medical Pluralism" S. Kan, S. Craig Goodman Student Research 2009-10 Emily Baxter "Gender, Catholicism and Religious Life: An Ethnographic Study of the Lives and Work of Women Religious" J. Igoe, S. Kan Liana Chase "Community-Based Approaches to Healing from Trauma Among Bhutanese Refugees in the US" S. Craig Aisling Galligan "Dental variation within adapoid and omomyoid primates at South Pass, Wyoming: implications for primate speciation" K. Muldoon Evan Lambert "Silent Soldiers: An Ethnography of Lesbians and Gays in the Military" K. Endicott Cameron Nutt "Growing Up with HIV in Dar es Salaam: An Ethnographic Study of Children’s Adherence to Antiretroviral Therapy" E. Carpenter Song Elizabeth Howland "Environmental Conflict and Forestry in Northern New England: a Study in Environmental Anthropology" J. Igoe Goodman Student Research 2008-09 Ashley Baker "Language Through an Inupiaq Lens: Names, Stories, and Subsistence" C. Ball Benjamin Campbell "Exploring How Traditional Healers Shape Parents' Perceptions of Children's Medicines in Rural Tanzania" S. Craig, H. Alverson Rachael Kandath "Facial Expression in Anthropoid Primates: Identifying the Potential Paradox of Uniformity in Facial Muscles and Diversity in Facial Mobility" S. Dobson, K. Muldoon Sarah Klassen "El Antigual: A Test of Surface Collection Methods" D. Nichols Tess McLoud Male-Infant Interactions in Captive Lemur Catta at the Duke Lemur Center" S. Dobson, K. Muldoon Claire Wagner "Children’s Perceptions of Health in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania: An Ethnographic Study" S. Craig Natalie Young "Racialized Post-Katrina New Orleans and Tulane University Students’ Sense of Place" L. Gutierrez, J. Igoe Goodman Student Research 2007-08 Bridget Alex "Comparative Sourcing Study: INAA, LA-ICP-MS, and Petrographoc Analyses of Formative Period Ceramics from the Teotihuacan Valley, Mexico" D. Nichols, B. Jackson Ian Dumont "Paradigms and Praxis at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Implications for Health Care Policy" H. Alverson, R. Welsch Sheila Dunning "Kenyan Youth Views on HIV and AIDS" K. Endicott Emi Ito "Study of the Dentition from the Late Neolithic and Chalcolithic Megaliths from the Lisbon Region of Portugal" S. Dobson, K. Korey Dylan Kane "Biloxi in the Wake of Katrina: The Search for Effective Disaster Relief" J. Igoe, R. Welsch Adam Levine "The Present of the Past: An Ethnography of Antiquities Collectors" D. Nichols, R. Welsch Kathleen Moriarty "The Impact of a Women's Cooperative on the Indigenous Cabécar Community of Costa Rica" J. Watanabe Ryan Murphy "The Social Significance of Bronze Age Roundhouse in Ireland" D. Nichols Zaneta Thayer "Quantitative Variation in the Modern Human Chin: A Baseline for Fossil Hominin Comparisons" S. Dobson, K. Muldoon Robin Uhle "The Lantern Festival: Illuminating the Question of Japanese Religion" J. Watanabe, C. Ball Goodman Student Research 2006-07 Kyle Finnegan "Mediating Contradictory Ideals: The Cultural Dialogue of Male Body Image in Fiji" R. Welsch Benjamin Jastrzembski "Social Networks of Migrant Mexican Dairy Workers in Vermont" L. Gutierrez, J. Watanabe Megan Paradise "Agricultural Change and the Impact on Women in Small Scale Agriculture" S. Craig AlexAnna Salmon "Ethnohistory of Igiugig, Alaska" K. Endicott Daniel Sude "The Power of the King Movement Today: The Symbolism and Politics of a Syncretic Political Organization" K. Endicott Goodman Student Research 2005-06 Jacob Aguiar "Quartzite Deposits and Folsom Lithics from Gunnison Basin, Colorado: Provenancing Stone Tool Remains at the Mountaineer Site" D. Nichols Jacob Appelbaum "Climate Change and Cyclonic Damage in the Pacific: Adaptation and change in Tokelau" R. Welsch Jesse Blom "Return to the Field: Examining the Effects of Environmental Change on Religious Practice" J. Watanabe Kathleen Boyne "Cultural Factors Influencing High Childhood Obesity Rates in Chicago" J. Watanabe Aya Caldwell "Unidas Para Vivir Mejor (UPAVIM): A Case Study in Deconstructing the Complexities of Development in the Squatter Settlements of Guatemala City" J. Watanabe Eric Goodman "From Bodies to Beliefs: A Question in Medical Anthropology Using Ancient Egyptian Mummies" R. Welsch, K. Korey Karen Jorge "The Experiences of Women Living with HIV in Rural Vermont and New Hampshire" J. Watanabe Esther Perman "Creating Cultural Identity Through the Urban Maori Marae" R. Welsch Melinda Ross "Excavation of a Teotihuacán Multi-Craft Workshop, with a Focus on Finish Obsidian Tools" D. Nichols Alexandra Spielhagen "Digging Up Ancestors: The Meaning and Effect of Tse-Whit-Zen on the Lower Elwha Klallam Tribe” D. Ranco, D. Nichols Akay Tuncak "Unveiling Identity: Veiling Among College-Aged Turkish Women" S. Kan Marnie Wolfe "Hawaiian Identity: Turning Back to Religious Roots" R. Welsch Goodman Student Research 2004-05 Jesse Blom "Maria Lionza: Discovering a Possession Cult's Relationship with Its Social Background" J. Watanabe Joseph Hanlon "Creating a Marshallese Modernity: Generational Identities and Shifting Cultural Perspectives" R. Welsch Clementine James "The Decline of the Chesapeake Crabbing and Oystering Industries and the Culture of the Watermen" S. Kan Joanne Kim "Recovery and Reintegration in Peer- Run Mental Health Organizations" R. Welsch Jennifer Lanzer "Campfires and Chronic Disease: Shaping the Experience of Chronic Illness" R. Welsch Jennifer Lanzer "Proposal for Airline Fare for Attendance at the NEAA Conference in Lake Placid, NY" R. Welsch Molly Malone "Ngai Tahu Maori and Jade: Sustainable Resource Management in a Small New Zealand Community" H. Alverson Chloe Mulderig "Redefining "Tradition" as a Dynamic Force: Challenges Facing the Tourist Industry in the Medina of Fes, Morocco" D. Eickelman, R. Welsch Justin Neiman "Self- Perceptions of Multiracial Students at Dartmouth College" R. Welsch Julia Payne "Tourism and Identity in Maine: Hosts, Guests, Motives, and Solutions" H. Alverson Ayumi Rogers "Clothing and Identity in Contemporary Japan: A Study of Young Japanese Women and What They are Expressing By Dressing the Way They Do" J. Watanabe, J. Cullinane Lin Ruan "Growing Individualism in an Urban Setting: The Academic and Career aspirations of Female High School and University Students in Beijing" R. Welsch Goodman Student Research 2003-04 Tate LeFevre "Seizing Identity, Manipulating Globalization: The Wetr Dance Troupe in Lifou, New Caledonia" R. Welsch Lauren Hendrickson "Ancient Isolated Human Remains from Northern Black Mesa, Arizona" D. Nichols Cat McManus "From Prospective to Recruit to Student- Athlete: Female Student-Athletes' Choice of Dartmouth College and Their Post- Recruitment Relationships with Coaches" R. Welsch Benjamin Mustin "The Paradox of Indigenous Development" J. Watanabe. H. Alverson, R. Welsch Andrew Hamilton "An Island Within an Island: Attempts by the European Union at Integrating an Irish Border Community" R. Welsch William Raynolds "The Role of a Specialized Pastoral Economy in Early Political Developments in Yemen" K. Abdi Christina Palmer "The Future of Street Children: Transitioning Off the Streets in san Jose, Costa Rica" L. Gutierrez, S. Kan, D. Nichols David Eckels "Giant Steps: Jazz and La Lucha in Contemporary Cuba" H. Alverson, J. Watanabe Goodman Student Research 2001-02 Elise Berman "Proselytizing and its relation to Social Identity: The Lubavitch of Glasgow" S. Kan, R. Welsch Jocelyn Bernatchez "Early Modern Humans in the Middle Stone Age of South Africa" K. Korey Richard Callahan "Modeling the Acceptance of Health Education Strategies in Southwestern China" R. Welsch Kapono Chong- Hanssen "Hawaiian Feasting: Historical Changes and Implications for Hawaiian Identity" J. Watanabe Mercedes Duff "Art and Construction of Group Identities in Aboriginal Communities Around Cairns, North Queensland" R. Welsch Rebecca Meyers "Health and Nutrition as Vehicles for Women's Social and Political Mobilization in Oaxaca, Mexico" J. Watanabe Kelly Ramirez "Into the Wild: An Examination of Adventure Tourism in Huascaran National Park, Peru" S. Kan, H. Alverson Lucas Schoen "Pathways to Power: The Changing Character of Filial Piety in Elite Chinese Students at Top Universities in Beijing" R. Welsch Adam Wilson "Environmentalism as Cultural Critique" J. Watanabe Goodman Student Research 2000-01 Laura Garzon "Coffee, Conservation, and Conscience in the Marketplace of the Global Village" J. Watanabe Megan Harrison "The Health Decisions of Semalai Women" K. Endicott Abraham Mahshie "Maori Youth Integration in New Zealand Society" K. Endicott James Parker Youth Homelessness in Los Angeles, California K. Endicott Allison Schumitsch "Ethno-History and National Identity in Greece" D. Eickelman Shannon Stoval "Occupational Stress Markers on a Bronze age Population from Tell Abraq" D. Nichols Lauren Weldon "Women in Power: Looking at How the Structure of the Pennsylvania and New Hampshire Legislatures Affect Women's Leadership" K. Endicott Goodman Student Research 1999-2000 Rohit Joshi "The Effects of Modernization on Young Men in Jaluit, Marshall Islands" K. Endicott Jeffrey Kahn "The Place of Vodou in Contemporary, Rural Haiti" J. Watanabe Goodman Student Research 1998-99 Roeland deWilde "The Northeastern Argentine Gaucho: Creation of Identity Through Construction of Tradition and Modernity" H. Alverson, J. Watanabe Kathryn Wendell "Community Activism and Other Local Responses to the Effects of the Yanacocha Mine on Cajamarca" K. Kray Rachel Fleming "Traditional Music and Irish National Identity" K. Endicott Elizabeth Carpenter "The Effects of Professionalization in Nursing on the Patient- Provider Interaction" R. Welsch Kristin Sullivan "Addendum: Life and Death in 'The Place Where Time Began'" D. Nichols Sydney Carter "Production and Consumption in the Yungas Zone: A Study of Tiwananku Cultural, Economic, and Political Influence in the Moquegua Valley, Peru Through Quantitative Artifact Analysis" P. Goldstein Erin Hardie "Kechuaymara: A Case Study in Cultural Preservation and Grassroots Development" J. Watanabe Goodman Student Research 1997-98 Sarah Boynton "The Anthropology of Alternative Medicine in America" K. Endicott Alexa Burneikis "Bali Hai, Bali, Low: Culture, Tourism, and the Paradox of Paradise" K. Endicott Christine DuRocher "An Attribute Analysis of Huaracane Pottery, Moquegua, Peru" P. Goldstein Alexa Hanke "Presentation of Research Findings at the Annual Meeting of the American Association of Physical Anthropologists" L. Leann Kellogg "Can Vocalizations Reflect Phylogeny? A Case Study With the Tamarins, Genus Saguinus" M. Goldsmith Kristin Sullivan "Life and Death in 'The Place Where Time Began'" D. Nichols Goodman Student Research 1995-96 Jessica Anenberg "Perspectives on Preservation and Promotion of the Past: An Archaeological, Historical, and Cultural Analysis of Cerro Portezuelo and New Directions in Archaeology" D. Nichols Mieka Ritsema "The American Value of Independence Among Elderly Residents of Assisted Living" H. Alverson Goodman Student Research 1996-97 Alexa Hanke "Nesting Behavior: Implications for determining Population Size, Group Dynamics, and Habitat Utilization of Mountain Gorillas in Bwindi- Impenetrable Forest National Park, Uganda" M. Goldsmith Goodman Student Research 1994-95 Cristina Chu "Assimilation and Syncretism in Tepeaca and Ebtun: A Comparison of Post- Conquest Development in the Central Highlands and the Yucatan Peninsula" J. Watanabe Allison Krasnow "Bilingual Education in Rural Quechua Town: Cochabamba, Bolivia" J. Watanabe Jennifer Main "Managing Medical Uncertainty: The Structure and Culture of a Surgical Residency Team" H. Alverson Marilyn Morano "Anti- Intellectualism in the Classroom" K. Endicott Elisabeth Smith "Illness Narrative Among Multiple Sclerosis Patients: The Cultural, Social, and Semiotic Phenomena of Diagnosis, Adaptation, and the Doctor- Patient Relationship" H. Alverson Goodman Student Research 1993-94 Richard Fried "The Wari Occupation at Cerro Mejia" D. Nichols Alexander McCrohan "New Age Geomancy" J. Watanabe Jennifer Miglionico "Preserving the Hero Soldier: The Politics and History Behind the Vietnam Memorial, Washington, D.C." H. Alverson Goodman Student Research 1992-93 Susan Chimonas "Patterns in Potsherds: The Occupational Settlement at Prehispanic Xaltocan, Mexico" D. Nichols Anelise Dandler "Study of the Conservation Area Project for Application in the Andes Region" J. Watanabe Severin Fowles "Moving On: Pit Structure Abandonment on Northern Black Mesa" D. Nichols A.J. Goldman, Mark Blair "Pilot Study of Education at the Akwesasne Reservation" K. Endicott Douglas Johnson "Responses to Illness Among Tibetan Refugees in India: A Study in Medical Pluralism" K. Endicott Lynn Rainville "Hanover Deathscapes: Attitudes Toward Death and Community as Reflected in Cemeteries and Gravestones: An Archaeological Investigation of Mortuary Variability" D. Nichols Stephanie Rupp "Missionary Education in Northern Tanzania: Changes in the Lives of Chagga, Warush, and Maasai Women, 1983-1936" H. Alverson John Sargent "A Fieldtrip Report: Displaced Sierra Leoneans and Liberian Refugees in Sierra Leone" H. Alverson Goodman Student Research 1991-92 Tara Grabowsky "Behavioral Variation in the African Green Monkey (Ceropithecus aethiops): Responses to a Changed Social Structure" K. Korey Lynn Rainville "Pre- and Post- Aztec Xaltocan" D. Nichols Thao Dinh Vo "Memory and Identity: The Recollections of a Vietnamese Family" K. Endicott Goodman Student Research 1990-91 Maura Benton- Bishop "Analysis of Maguey and Cotton Spindle Works from the Aztec City- State of Otumba" D. Nichols Clare Talwalker "Women Living in Street Communities in Bombay: An Anthropological Account" H. Alverson Goodman Student Research 1988-89 Jonathan Burnham "Pangnirtung: Working Forward from Dependency" H. Alverson Andrea Green "Carbon 14 Analysis of Two Samples from the Bailey Site in Lyme, New Hampshire" Stuart Kaplan "Dental Development and Hominid Evolution" K. Korey Ross O' Brian "The Nature of "Work Ethics" in Chinese Communities in America" K. Endicott Rani Sellers "Aztec III Figurine Distributions on the Aztec City- State of Otumba, Mexico" D. Nichols Jeanne Shea "The Impact of Economic and Political Systems on Fertility and Population in Singapore and China" K. Endicott David Steinberg "Film Series on Jamaica's Rural Population" (Public Presentation) G. Finnegan Lucian Sulica "The Place of Otumba in the Aztec Empire: A Provincial City- State in the Teotihuacan Valley" D. Nichols Steven Yung "Obsidian Distribution at Otumba" D. Nichols Goodman Student Research 1987-88 William Bray "Creek Stickball" (Public Presentation) S. McBeth Goodman Student Research 1986-87 Jennifer Anderson, Stacey Coverdale "Voices: Shinnecock Woman" (public presentation) S. McBeth, G. Finnegan Eleanor Tyson "Images of a City: An Urban Field Study" Video Project C. Coles Goodman Student Research 1985-86 Virginia Dean "Cambodian Language Instruction" K. Endicott Margaret Hardner "Considering Small- Scale Businesswomen in Urban Development: A Study of the Changing Economic Roles of the Nigerian Yoruba and the Kenyan Kikuyu" C. Coles Anne Woermer "Crossroads Africa: Observations During a Summer in Ghana" C. Coles Goodman Student Research 1984-85 Stuart Chandler "How Many Hakka Does It Take to Change a Lightbulb? A Study of Chinese Humor in Taiwan" K. Endicott Arjun Guneratne "Water, Rice, and People: Problems and Constraints of Peasant Colonization in the Dry Zone of Sri Lanka" H. Alverson Andrew SornborgerI "Inside Inner Mongolia" (public presentation) H. Alverson Goodman Student Research 1983-84 Huan Chang "The Integration of Traditional Chinese Healing and Western Scientific Medicine in Two Contemporary Chinese Societies" K. Endicott Kate Hotchkiss "The Animal Motif of Ancient China" K. Endicott Andrew Laing "Rastafarian Culture" K. Endicott Sarah Strauss "Navajo Religion: Mythologic Basis for Medicine and Morality" K. Endicott Goodman Student Research 1982-83 Robert Eshman "A Study of the Jonglei Canal and Its Effect on Local Populations" D. Gregory Edith Farwell "An Ethnographic Study of Attitudes Towards Wildlife in Kenya" H. Alverson Daniel Lefkowitz "Urban Crime and Rural Development in Kenya: An Investigation of the Relationships" H. Alverson Goodman Student Research 1981-82 Douglas Falkner, Edith Farwell, Robert Eshman "Burp!" M. Dorris Roberta Joe "Architectural Analysis of Masonry at Salmon Ruin, New Mexico" B. McMillan Goodman Student Research 1980-81 "Film on Sam Brothers Five" (public presentation) Goodman Student Research Funding Form Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia People People Diversity & Inclusion My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback