Skip to Main Content Brown University Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Students Guest Speakers Search Menu Site Navigation Home Who We Are People Faculty Bookshelf History Connect With Us Undergraduate Studies Concentration Requirements Tracks Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Graduate Studies Ph.D. Program Funding Courses Current Students Graduates of the Program News Events Past Events Search Anthropology Graduates of the Program Breadcrumb Home Graduate Studies Sub Navigation In This Section Ph.D. Program Funding Courses Current Students Graduates of the Program 1972-2006 Graduates of the Program Graduates of Brown’s doctoral program in Anthropology are now in academic and professional positions in institutions across the world. 2021 Whitney Arey Postdoctoral Fellowship for the Texas Policy Evaluation Project at the University of Texas at Austin Ph.D. Dissertation Abortion as Care: Affective and Biosocial Experiences of Abortion Access and Decision-making Master's Thesis "Is it Only TB That We Are Talking About?": NGOs and Tuberculosis Case Detection in Southern Ghana Fiori Berhane Provost’s Post-Doctoral Fellow for Faculty Diversity (2021-2022), then Assistant Professor of Anthropology (2022-) in Global Black Studies at the University of Southern California Ph.D. Dissertation Eritrea, A Diaspora in Two Parts: Memory, Political Organizing and Refugee Experiences in Italy Master's Thesis When the Stakes are High: Political Organizing and Refugee Assistance amongst Eritrean Exiles in Bologna, Italy Eve Harene Dewan Principal Investigator for Warm Springs GeoVisions, a tribally-owned environmental compliance firm in the Pacific Northwest Ph.D. Dissertation Frontier Lessons: An Archaeology of Living and Learning in the Grand Ronde Tribal Community Master's Thesis Identities in the Arena: The Archaeology of Sports and Gender at Indian Boarding Schools Malay Firoz Assistant Professor of Anthropology, Arizona State University Ph.D. Dissertation The Resilience Paradox: Ethical Quandaries of Humanitarian Aid in Jordan and Lebanon Master's Thesis Rightlessness and the Nation-State: Syrian Refugees and the Humanitarian Crisis in Jordan Mallory Matsumoto Assistant Professor of Maya Religion in the Department of Religious Studies, University of Texas at Austin Ph.D. Dissertation Sharing Script: Development And Transmission of Hieroglyphic Practice Among Classic Maya Scribes Master's Thesis Replicating Writing: Molding and Stamping Hieroglyphs on Classic Maya Ceramics Alexandra Peck The Mellon Environmental Stewardship, Place, & Community Initiative’s Visiting Scholar of Indigenous Studies at the Institute for Advanced Study, University of Minnesota-Twin Cities Ph.D. Dissertation Totem Poles, a New Mode of Cultural Heritage? The Jamestown S’Klallam Tribe’s Efforts to Restore Native Presence, Preserve History, & Combat Settler Colonial Amnesia Master's Thesis Museums as Mestizas: A Multi-Sited Institutional Ethnography of Coast Salish Tribal Museums Alejandra Roche Recinos Visiting Assistant Professor at Reed College Ph.D. Dissertation Regional Production and Exchange of Stone Tools in the Maya Polity of Piedras Negras, Guatemala Master's Thesis Maya Lithic Economies at Piedras Negras, Guatemala: Production and Exchange in an Elite Architectural Complex 2020 Omar Andrés Alcover Firpi Content Specialist for Mobile Programs, LA County Museum of Art, Los Angeles, CA Ph.D. Dissertation Conflict, Defense, and Cooperation at Macabilero, Peten, Guatemala, 2020 Master's Thesis Landscapes of War, Landscapes of Cooperation: Regional Settlement at El Zotz, Guatemala, 2016 Emily W. Avera Assistant Professor at Ithaca College, Department of Anthropology, Ithaca, NY Ph.D. Dissertation Fluid Identities: Residue, Risk, and Race in South African Blood Services, 2020 Master's Thesis Diverse Engraftments: Promissory Notes on Bone Marrow Stem Cell Transplantation in South Africa, 2015 Sara Hefny Lead UX Researcher at Xapo, Rome, Italy Ph.D. Dissertation The Most Deserving: Syrian Refugee Resettlement in Salvini’s Italy, 2020 Master's Thesis On the Edge of Inclusion: Interrogating Integration in London’s Arab Diaspora, 2016 Madeline Kearin Ryan Project Development Librarian Ph.D. Dissertation A Refuge of Cure or of Care: The Sensory Dimensions of Confinement at the Worcester State Hospital for the Insane, 2020 Master's Thesis 'A Corpse Instead of a Pauper’: Graveyards as Sites of Ideological Production in 19th-Century Westchester County, New York, 2016 Alice Larotonda Visiting Scholar in Anthropology Ph.D. Dissertation Milkways to Motherhood: Tracing the Stakes and Motives of Breastmilk Donation in Cabo Verde, 2020 Master's Thesis Infants, Parents, and the State in Cabo Verde: The Making and Unmaking of Citizens, Care, and Good Parenthood, 2016 2019 Brian A. Horton Assistant Professor at Brandeis, Dept. of Anthropology Ph.D. Dissertation Shimmers of the Fabulous: Reinventions of Queer Life and Politics in Mumbai, 2019 Master's Thesis Queer Attachments and Emergent Futures: The Policies of Desire and Subjectivity in LGBTQ India, 2014 Kimberly J. Lewis Associate Director of the Office of Scholars and Fellowships at the University of Richmond, in Richmond, VA Ph.D. Dissertation Innovation and Exclusion: Redesigning Higher Education in Ecuador, 2019 Master's Thesis Care and Quality in Ecuador's High-Stake University Accreditation, 2014 Andrea L. Wright Dr. Wright is a Lecturer of Anthropology and Allston Burr Resident Dean of Eliot House, Harvard University Ph.D. Dissertation Tired Hands: Race, Gender, and Labor in Contemporary India, 2019 Master's Thesis Negotiating Spaces, Negotiating Faces: Beauty Producers and Consumers in Contemporary India, 2014 2018 Jessica Nelson Fellow at John Carter Brown Library at Brown University Ph.D. Dissertation Detecting Dutchness: Global Identities in the 17th Century Dutch Atlantic, 2018 Master's Thesis A Tale of Two Trading Posts, 2014 2017 Chelsea Cormier McSwiggin User Researcher with Microsoft in Redmond, WA. Ph.D. Dissertation Undetectable Living: The Making of Moral Lives Among Haitians Living with HIV, 2017 Master's Thesis Nanpwen malady ki pa gen remèd (There is no illness that does not have a cure)”: Politicization of HIV in Miami’s Haitian Diaspora, 2013 Alyce M. de Carteret Dr. de Carteret is a Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow in Art of the Ancient Americas, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Los Angeles, CA Ph.D. Dissertation Building Communities: The Craft of Housebuilding among the Classic Maya, 2017 Master's Thesis The Red Shift: Changing Tastes and their Implications at the Elite Maya Residence of El Diablo, Guatemala, 2013 Paula Dias International Development Qualitative Researcher at American Institutes for Research Ph.D. Dissertation Progressive Petroleum: Big Oil, Citizenship Education, and Ethno-Racial Politics in Brazil, 2017 Master's Thesis Negotiating Identities: Shell's Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Quilombola Communities in Brazil, 2011 Mohamed Yunus Rafiq Associate Professor Fellow at NYU in Shanghai Ph.D. Dissertation Shehes and the State: The Incorporation of Tanzanian Muslim Religious Leaders in Biopolitical Projects in Pre- and Post-Ujamaa Era, 2017 Master's Thesis De-territorialized Shaykhs: How Tanzanian Muslim Actors Are Addressing Their Socio-Economic Marginalization by Emulating Christian Institutional and Media Practices, 2012 Stephanie Savell Dr. Savell is a Senior Researcher at Watson and co-director of Costs of War Ph.D. Dissertation The Right to Policing: Violence and Security Reform in the Favelas of Rio de Janeiro, 2017 Master's Thesis I'm not a Leader: Grassroots Civil Society in a Rio de Janeiro Favela, 2012 Derek R. Sheridan Assistant Research Fellow at the Institute of Ethnology at Academia Sinica Taiwan Ph.D. Dissertation The Ambivalence of Ascendance: Chinese Migrant Entrepreneurs and the Interpersonal Ethics of Global Inequality in Tanzania, 2017 Master's Thesis Uncle Sam said very clearly you are not a country: Deceptions and Revelations of the Imperial Imagination in Taiwan, 2013 Rama Srinivasan Marie Curie Fellow for the project RE-NUP - Spousal Reunification and Integration Laws in Europe Ph.D. Dissertation Courting Desire: Litigating for Love in Post-Agrarian North India, 2017 Master's Thesis The Heart of the Matter: Narratives of Love and Togetherness in Contemporary Haryana, 2013 Katharine Stockland Visiting Scholar in Anthropology Ph.D. Dissertation “Doing Life Together" in the House of the Lord: Trust, Belonging, and Deservingness among African Pentecostal Christians in the UK, 2017 2016 Bhawani Buswala Postdoctoral Researcher, School of Anthropology & Museum Ethnography, University of Oxford Ph.D. Dissertation The Bazaar and the Butchers: The Social Life of an Untouchable Work in North India, 2016 Master's Thesis Man the Producer, Man the Protector: The Gendered Life of Meat Among the Khatiks in Rajasthan, 2010 Magnus Pharao Hansen Assistant Professor Ph.D. Dissertation Nahuatl Nation: Language Revitalization and Indigenous Resurgence in 21st Century Mexico, 2016 Master's Thesis "He used to be my grandchild": The Semiotic Construction of Kinship Relations in Acuzulco Otomi Discourse, 2012 Yana G. Stainova Assistant Professor of Anthropology at McMaster University in Canada Ph.D. Dissertation Violence and Violins: The Social Resonance of Classical Music in Venezuela, 2016 Master's Thesis The Music of Becoming: The Social Resonance of Classic Music in the Youth Orchestras of Venezuela's "El Sistema", 2012 2015 Andrea E. Flores Assistant Professor in Brown’s Department of Education Ph.D. Dissertation Succeeders: Latino Youth Learning to Belong, 2015 Master's Thesis It's Called Social (or Cultural) Capital Y' All: Migrants in Middle Tennessee and 'Empowerment Education', 2011 Emily Button Kambic Archaeologist and Grants Management Specialist with American Battlefield Protection Program at National Park Service, Washington D.C Ph.D. Dissertation Navigating Difference: The Archaeology of Identities in an American Whaling Port, 2015 Master's Thesis Cutting Edge Technology: Ulus in Museums as Vehicles of Cultural Exchange, 2011 Sarah E. Newman Assistant Professor of Anthropology and Social Sciences at the University of Chicago Ph.D. Dissertation Rethinking Refuse: A History of Maya Trash, 2015 Master's Thesis The Last Supper: The Role of Ceramic Serving Vessels in Ancient Maya Mortuary Practice, 2011 Láura A. M. Vares Instructor, Emerson College Ph.D. Dissertation Keeping it all Together: Changing Perspectives on Marriage, Family, and Career Among Older Italian Women, 2015 Master's Thesis Keeping up Appearances: The Outsourcing of Eldercare, and Its Implications for the Status of Italian Women, 2010 2014 Nicholas P. Carter Assistant Professor of Anthropology, Texas State University Ph.D. Dissertation Kingship and Collapse: Inequality and Identity in the Terminal Classic Southern Maya Lowlands, 2014 Master's Thesis Paleographic trends and linguistic processes in Classic Ch'olti'an: a spatiotemporal distributional analysis, 2010 Kendra C. Fehrer Senior Research Associate at John W. Gardner Center for Youth and Their Communities at Stanford University Ph.D. Dissertation Generation Chavez: Participation and Citizenship in Post-Neoliberal Venezuela, 2014 Master's Thesis Seeing the Venezuelan State: Participatory Politics in the Chavez Era, 2008 Andrea Maldonado Director of International Admissions for Latin America at the National Student Leadership Conference Ph.D. Dissertation Yoga's Dis/Union: Class Relations, Social Mobility, and Self-Care in Mexico City, 2014 Master's Thesis A Members' Only Community: Distinction and Performance of Self and Other within Social Clubs in Mexico City, 2007 Kristin J. Skrabut Lecturer of Social Studies at Harvard University Ph.D. Dissertation Extreme Lives: The Unruly Domestication of Peruvian Poverty, 2014 Master's Thesis Legibility and Land Trafficking: Doing Living in Lima’s Central Margins, 2008 Stacey L. Vanderhurst Assistant Professor of Women, Gender & Sexuality Studies Ph.D. Dissertation Sheltered Lives: God, Sex, and Mobility in Nigeria's Counter-Trafficking Programs, 2014 Master's Thesis “Image is Everything”: Transnational Governance and the Management of the Reputation of Nigeria, 2009 2013 Christy A. DeLair Director of Pick Museum of Anthropology at Northern Illinois University Ph.D. Dissertation Crafting Indigenous Identity in Taiwan: The Role of Handicrafts in the Negotiation of Community, 2013 Master's Thesis Performing Tradition: The Negotiation of a Pan-ethnic Community in Miss Indian World, 2007 James A. Doyle Assistant Curator at New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art Ph.D. Dissertation The First Maya “Collapse”: The End of the Preclassic Period at El Palmar, Petén, Guatemala, 2013 Master's Thesis A Paleographic Approach to Political Change Using Classic Maya Day Sign Variants, 2009 Susan H. Ellison Associate Professor in the Department of Anthropology at Wellesley College Ph.D. Dissertation Mediating Democracy in El Alto: The Politics of Conflict Resolution in Bolivia, 2013 Master's Thesis “Replicating” Democracy in El Alto?: Political Subjectivity and American Democracy Promotion in Bolivia, 2009 Sohini Kar Associate Professor in the Department of International Development at the London School of Economics Ph.D. Dissertation Creditable Lives: Microfinance, Development, and Financial Risk in India, 2013 Master's Thesis From Burra Bazar to Big Basaar: Selling the New World Order in the Marketplaces of Kolka, 2009 Inna Leykin Lecturer in the Department of Sociology, Political Science and Communication at The Open University of Israel Ph.D. Dissertation “Population Prescriptions”: State, Morality, and Population Politics in Contemporary Russia, 2013 Master's Thesis Where is the Real Russia to be Found?: The Center-Periphery Relationship in Putin’s Russia, 2008 Yagmur Nuhrat Dr. Nuhrat is Assistant Professor in the Sociology Department at Istanbul Bilgi University Ph.D. Dissertation Fair Enough? Negotiating Ethics in Turkish Football, 2013 Master's Thesis Unsettling Claims of Migrant Visibilities: Receiving Migration in Istanbul, 2008 Colin A. Porter Lead Sixth Grade Teacher of Humanities at the Alma Del Mar Charter School Ph.D. Dissertation "Monuments to a Nation Gone By”: Fortified Houses, King Philip’s War, and the Remaking of a New England Frontier, 1675-1725, 2013 Master's Thesis Gravestones and King Philip’s War: Commemoration in Seventeenth-Century New England, 2009 2012 Michelle Charest Lecturer in the History of Art and Visual Culture at the Rhode Island School of Design Ph.D. Dissertation Emerald Pub to Silver Saloon: Building an Irish Saloon Community in the American Mining West, 2012 Cassandra Mesick Braun Associate Curator of Global Indigenous Art Ph.D. Dissertation The Culture of Construction: Architectural Technology and Building Practices of the Classic Period Maya, 2012 Master's Thesis The Modification of Maya Monuments: Towards a Local Theory of Sculptural Ontology, 2006 2011 Jennifer Ashley Associate Professor in the Global Affairs Program at George Mason University Ph.D. Dissertation Televising Exclusion: Democracy, Activism, and Urban Politics in Chile, 2011 Master's Thesis Mediating Fear: Discourses on Crime in Santiago, Chile, 2007 Elisaveta Koriouchkina Research Fellow at Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies, Harvard University Ph.D. Dissertation Contigent Ethnicity in State(s) of Change: Meskhetian Turk's Journey from USSR to Post-Soviet World, 2011 Master's Thesis The Russians Are Leaving? Notions of Identity in the Context of Out-Migration of Russians from Kazakhstan, 2002 Kathleen Millar Associate Professor of Anthropology at Simon Fraser University in British Columbia Ph.D. Dissertation Reclaiming the Discarded: The Politics of Labor and Everyday Life on Rio's Garbage Dump, 2011 Master's Thesis Recycling Class: Politics of the Informal Economy at a Brazilian Garbage Dump, 2006 Rebecca A. Warne Peters Assistant Professor of Anthropology, SUNY Oswego Ph.D. Dissertation Development Effects: Cosmopolitanism, Governmentality and Angolan Engagements in the World, 2011 Master's Thesis A Life's Work: The Production of International Development through the Professional Career, 2007 Leah Rosenmeier Cultural Centre at The Confederacy of Mainland Mi'kmaq--Mi'kmawey Debert in Canada Ph.D. Dissertation Towards an Archeology of Descent: Spatial Practice and Shared Experience in M'Kmaw Communities, 2011 Master's Thesis Economics of Subsistence or Exchange? Examining Production Among 18th Century Labrador Inuit, 2001 Harris Solomon Associate Professor in the Department of Cultural Anthropology Duke University Ph.D. Dissertation Life-Sized: Food and the Pathologies of Plenty in Mumbai, 2011 Master's Thesis Brand Icon: Medical Tourism in India, 2007 2010 Elizabeth Hoover Associate Professor Department of Environmental Science, Policy and Management, University California, Berkeley Ph.D. Dissertation Local Food Production and Community Illness Narratives: Responses to Environmental Contamination and Health Studies in the Mohawk Community of Akwesasne, 2010 Master's Thesis Arbiters of Authenticity: Living History in Native American Museums, 2003 Maya Judd Academic Coordinator for the Master of Public Affairs at Sciences Po Paris. Currently is a Lecturer at Yale University Ph.D. Dissertation Gendering Men: Masculinities and Demographic Change in Contemporary Italy, 2010 Master's Thesis A Woman Without a Child Is No Woman At All Coping with Infertility in Southern Nigeria, 2006 Susi Krehbiel Keefe Associate Professor in Sociology and Director for Center for Justice and Law, Hamline Univeristy Ph.D. Dissertation Romantic Desires & Polygynous Intentions: Islam and Gender and Divorce in Coastal Tanzania, 2010 Master's Thesis Funga Kabisa and Hamna Athari: Permanency and Side-Effects Considering Female Sterilization and Contraceptive Choice Among the Pare in Ugweno, Tanzania, 2001 Andrea Mazzarino Therapist working directly with Children and Families in the Washington Metropolitan area and collaborates with Human Rights Watch Ph.D. Dissertation Being Independent Together: Urban Russian Businesswomen and New Forms of National Belonging, 2010 Master's Thesis Landscapes for Sexuality for Urban Russian Women, 2006 Christine Reiser-Robbins Associate Professor in the Department of Psychology and Sociology, and Coordinator of Anthropology, Southwest Borderland Studies, and Mexican American Studies at Texas A&M University, Knightsville Ph.D. Dissertation Rooted in Movement: Spatial Practices and Community Persistence in Native Southwestern New England, 2010 Master's Thesis Safeguarding the 'Mint": Analysis of the Fort Island Collection in Comparative Perspective, 2004 Kathryn Rhine Associate Professor in the Department of Anthropology at the University of Kansas Ph.D. Dissertation AIDS, Marriage, and the Management of Ambiguity in Northern Nigeria, 2010 Master's Thesis Marriage and Reproduction Following HIV-positive Diagnoses Among Hausa Women, 2005 Salome Wawire Research and Monitoring Director at the Private Sector Innovation Programme For Health (PSP4H) in Nairobi, Kenya Ph.D. Dissertation Negotiating Identity: Identity Dynamics in the Context of Male Circumcision and HIV/AIDS among Luo Youth in Kisumu, Kenya, 2010 2009 Julie E. Esdale CEMML Archaeologist at the Environmental Division of the U.S. army Garrison Fort Wainwright, Alaska Ph.D. Dissertation Lithic Production Sequences and Toolkit Variability: Examples from the Middle Holecene, Northwest Alaska, 2009 Rebecca B. Galemba Associate Professor at Josef Korbel School of International Studies at the University of Dener and Co-Director of the DU Center for Immigration and Policy Research (CIPR) Ph.D. Dissertation Cultures of Contraband: Contesting (II) Legality at the Mexico-Guatemala Border, 2009 Audrey Elegbede Mouser Audrey M. Elegbede, PhD, ACC, Curriculum and Assessment Manager, Mayo Clinic Alix School of Medicine, Co-Founder, ETeam Consulting (Executive Coach, Consultant, Speaker) Ph.D. Dissertation Maintaining Middle-Classness: Urban, Middle-Class, Malay Single-Mothers of Kuala Lumpur Malaysia, 2009 Dondrea R. Thompson Senior User Experience and Usability Researcher at Bank of America, San Francisco Ph.D. Dissertation Black American Women in Sweden: Making Sense of Changing Fields, 2009 Master's Thesis The Politics of Display or the Display of Politics? Cultural Policy and the Museum of Dominican Man, 2000 2008 Jan Brunson Associate Professor of Anthropology at the University of Hawaii Ph.D. Dissertation Reproducing Hierarchy: Women’s Positions and Embodiment of Social Change in the Kathmandu Valley. 2008 Master's Thesis Women's use of contraceptives in the Kathmandu Valley: Enduring side effects and strategizing fertility, 2001 Catharine Hall Ph.D. Dissertation Defining Boundaries and Breaking Barriers: Access and Adaptation of Chesapeake Bay Watermen, 2008 Master's Thesis Hunters & Harvesters: Adaptive Strategies Among the Watermen of the Chesapeake Bay, 1992 Juliette Rogers Independent French-to-English translator specializing in social science research Ph.D. Dissertation The Political Lives of Dairy Cows: Modernity, Tradition, and Professional Identity in the Norman Cheese Industry, 2008 Master's Thesis The Current Middle Ages: The Selective World of Authenticity in the Society for Creative Anchronism, 1999 Krysta Ryzewski Dr. Ryzewski is Chair and Associate Professor of Anthropology at Wayne State University Ph.D. Dissertation Archaeology of a Colonial Industry: Domestic Ironworking and Industrial Evolution in Rhode Island, 1642-1800, 2008 Jennifer Cantú Trunzo Associate Professor in the Department of History, Anthropology, and Philosophy at Augusta University Ph.D. Dissertation “Buying into It” Propaganda, Consumerism, and the American Revolution in Southeastern Connecticut, 2008 Paul White Associate Professor in the Department of Geography, University of Nevada Ph.D. Dissertation Chuckwalla and the Belligerent Burro: Timbisha Shoshone, Miners and the Footprints of Dispossession in the Panamints, 2008 2007 Caroline Archambault Assistant Professor in International Development at Leiden University College in The Hague Ph.D. Dissertation "Education is the Song of the Day": School in Maasai Society and Economy, 2007 Master's Thesis "A World of Women" Constraints and Opportunities of Rural "Stayers" in Ugweno, Tanzania, 2002 Sreeparna Chattopadhyay Associate Professor at Flame University in Pune, India Ph.D. Dissertation Interrogating Violence: Uncovering Silences-Investigating Marital Violence in India, 2007 Master's Thesis Rakta Ebong Biye: Blood and Marriage-Examing the relationship between arranged marriages and a Thalassemia Prevention program in West Bengal, India, 2003 Pilapa Esara Associate Professor in the Department of Anthropology at the College of Brockport/State University of New York Ph.D. Dissertation Changing Marriage, Changing Thai Society: Contradictions of Gender, Class, and Identity in an Era of Globalization, 2007 Master's Thesis "By and By" - Enacting Mobility, Experiencing Change, 2001 Angela McMillan Howell Associate Professor of Anthropology at Morgan State University in Baltimore, Maryland Ph.D. Dissertation Not Just 'Down Yonder': Growing up Black in Rural Alabama, 2007 Master's Thesis African American Heritage Tours in Dakar, Senegal: Authenticity, Contradictions, and Diasporic Connections, 2002 Simone Poliandri Associate Professor of Anthropology at Bridgewater State University Ph.D. Dissertation Identity Dynamics in the Mi'Kmaw Reserves of Nova Scotia, Canada, 2007 Master's Thesis Mi'Kmaw Lobster Fishing in St. Mary's Bay, Nova Scotia: A Traditional Activity?, 2001 Donna B. Searles Ph.D. Dissertation Medicalizing Motherhood: San Carlos Apache Women and Birth, 2007 Ninian Stein Dr. Stein is a Lecturer in Environmental Studies and Anthropology at Tufts University Ph.D. Dissertation Abstract for: Native Peoples, Subsistence, and Cultural Identity in Late Woodland and Early Contact Period Southern New England, 2007 Bruce Whitehouse Associate Professor of Anthropology at Lehigh University Ph.D. Dissertation Exile Knows No Dignity: African Transnational Migrants and the Anchoring of Identity, 2007 Master's Thesis Staying Soninke: Migration, Multilocality and Identity in a Community of the West African Sahel, 2003 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Students Guest Speakers Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Who We Are People Faculty Bookshelf History Connect With Us Undergraduate Studies Concentration Requirements Tracks Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Graduate Studies Ph.D. Program Funding Courses Current Students Graduates of the Program News Events Past Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduates of the Program Open details for Graduates of the Program Bookmark this Page