Apply Visit Give Skip to Content University of Oregon UO Home | Dept Index CAS Anthropology Department of Anthropology Menu Welcome About Us People Undergraduate Graduate Research Museum Events Useful Links Contact Us Archaeology Archaeology is a subfield of anthropology that examines the human past through material remains. From artifacts found with fossilized remains of our earliest human ancestors in Africa dating to millions of years ago, to historical buildings in urban or rural Oregon, archaeology analyzes the physical remains of the past in pursuit of a broad and comprehensive understanding of human cultures. At the University of Oregon, archaeology is practiced by a diverse group of faculty and students working in North America, the Pacific Rim, Pacific Islands, Caribbean, Southeast Asia, East Asia, and Sub-Saharan Africa. We study a broad array of topics, including settlement of the Americas, colonization and population dispersals, the archaeology and historical ecology of islands and coastal regions, fishing societies, transitions to agriculture, and emergence of social inequality. We examine the effects of economic, environmental, cultural, and evolutionary factors on subsistence, social structure, ethnicity, identity, and gender in archaeological contexts, and how humans adapted, influenced, and altered their natural and social environments. We work on issues surrounding the management of archaeological sites and cultural heritage, and the relationship between indigenous and minoritized groups in archaeology. We foster indigenous scholarship and promote collaborative relationships with tribal and local community stakeholders. The archaeology program maintains strong linkages with various units on campus, such as the Museum of Natural and Cultural History, the Center for Asian and Pacific Studies, the African Studies Program, and the CAMCOR lab (the comprehensive materials characterization center at the University of Oregon). Methodologically, the program is strong in archaeological science with laboratories for archaeobotany, zooarchaeology, stable isotope analysis, and ceramic technology research. Collecting soil samples for archaeobotanical analysis at the Yangshao (Neolithic) period Yanggwanzhai site, Shaanxi province, as part of Dr. Gyoung-Ah Lee’s research. Department of Anthropology 1218 University of Oregon Eugene OR 97403 541-346-5102 Main Office – 308 Condon Hall Search for: Condon Hall Building Hours 7:00 am – 7:00 pm 1321 Kincaid Street Eugene, OR 97403 Donate Contact Us Faculty Login Graduate Login © 2022 University of Oregon. Privacy Policy. Developed by Development Services Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.