Skip to Main Content Brown University Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Students Guest Speakers Search Menu Site Navigation Home Who We Are People Faculty Bookshelf History Connect With Us Undergraduate Studies Concentration Requirements Tracks Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Graduate Studies Ph.D. Program Funding Courses Current Students Graduates of the Program News Events Past Events Search Anthropology Undergraduate Studies Sub Navigation In This Section Concentration Requirements Tracks Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Virtual Open House Watch the video of a one-hour Zoom orientation to our concentration, featuring faculty and students. Watch now Undergraduate Studies The undergraduate concentration in Anthropology involves training in the four subfields of anthropology: socio-cultural anthropology, archaeology, linguistic anthropology, and biological anthropology. We offer a general track that draws from all of the subfields, as well as tracks in each individual subfield and a track in medical anthropology, which bridges several of these subfields. Many of the department's courses are appropriate for non-concentrators and we encourage students from throughout the Brown community to take advantage of our courses and other programmatic offerings. General Anthropology Track The General Anthropology track is the most flexible and open of all of the anthropology tracks. Socio-Cultural Anthropology Track Socio-cultural anthropology engages the full breadth of the contemporary human experience through the lens of ethnography, the long-term qualitative study of social processes in a particular context. Medical Anthropology Track Medical anthropology is a subfield of anthropology that seeks to understand human experiences of health, illness, and suffering. Linguistic Anthropology Track Linguistic anthropology is the study of language in social context, both past and present. Anthropological Archaeology Track Anthropological archaeologists study the human past through the medium of material culture and are especially interested in exploring social processes through time and throughout the world. Biological Anthropology Track Biological anthropology focuses on the biological aspects of the human condition, emphasizing especially our evolutionary legacy and the role of social processes in shaping biological phenomena. Virtual Open House Watch the video of a one-hour Zoom orientation to our concentration, featuring faculty and students. Watch now Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Students Guest Speakers Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Who We Are People Faculty Bookshelf History Connect With Us Undergraduate Studies Concentration Requirements Tracks Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Graduate Studies Ph.D. Program Funding Courses Current Students Graduates of the Program News Events Past Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Undergraduate Studies Open details for Undergraduate Studies Bookmark this Page