Skip to Main Content Brown University Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Students Guest Speakers Search Menu Site Navigation Home Who We Are People Faculty Bookshelf History Connect With Us Undergraduate Studies Concentration Requirements Tracks Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Graduate Studies Ph.D. Program Funding Courses Current Students Graduates of the Program News Events Past Events Search Anthropology Tracks Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Studies Sub Navigation In This Section Concentration Requirements Tracks General Anthropology Socio-Cultural Anthropology Medical Anthropology Linguistic Anthropology Anthropological Archaeology Biological Anthropology Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Tracks The General Anthropology track offers the most flexibility among the Anthropology concentration tracks. Students choose from the core course offerings that best fit their interests. The remaining five tracks offer more specialized pathways through those same requirements. Course options in the specialized tracks are more restricted and ensure a student is more deeply trained in one of the core areas of anthropology, while still broadly trained in the discipline. Students who wish to specialize in an area of anthropology outside of these tracks also have the option of designing their own track, with the approval of the DUS. Self-designed anthropology tracks must include the core requirements outlined in the General Anthropology track. General Anthropology Track The General Anthropology track is the most flexible and open of all of the anthropology tracks. Visit Page Open details for General Anthropology Track Socio-Cultural Anthropology Track Socio-cultural anthropology engages the full breadth of the contemporary human experience through the lens of ethnography, the long-term qualitative study of social processes in a particular context. Visit Page Open details for Socio-Cultural Anthropology Track Medical Anthropology Track Medical anthropology is a subfield of anthropology that seeks to understand human experiences of health, illness, and suffering. Visit Page Open details for Medical Anthropology Track Linguistic Anthropology Track Linguistic anthropology is the study of language in social context, both past and present. Visit Page Open details for Linguistic Anthropology Track Anthropological Archaeology Track Anthropological archaeologists study the human past through the medium of material culture and are especially interested in exploring social processes through time and throughout the world. Visit Page Open details for Anthropological Archaeology Track Biological Anthropology Track Biological anthropology focuses on the biological aspects of the human condition, emphasizing especially our evolutionary legacy and the role of social processes in shaping biological phenomena. Visit Page Open details for Biological Anthropology Track Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Students Guest Speakers Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Who We Are People Faculty Bookshelf History Connect With Us Undergraduate Studies Concentration Requirements Tracks Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Graduate Studies Ph.D. Program Funding Courses Current Students Graduates of the Program News Events Past Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Tracks Open details for Tracks Bookmark this Page