Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Anthropology Department of Anthropology Contact Us Facebook Anthropology.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Back to Top Nav Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia Back to Top Nav People People Diversity & Inclusion Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Sienna R. Craig Academic Appointments Professor, Department of Anthropology House Professor, South House Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Program Connect with Us Twitter The worlds of healing across culture, the meanings people ascribe to illness, and the social lives of medicines fascinate me. My work is also attuned to how people navigate processes of migration and social change. I am engaged in work on women's and children's health and global health. My research takes me to the Nepal Himalaya and Tibetan regions of China, as well as to diasporic communities from these regions now living in the United States. As a cultural and medical anthropologist, I am invested in understanding the multiple ways that so-called 'traditional' medical systems interact with biomedicine and global health: from patient-healer relationships and the cultural meanings people ascribe to suffering and affliction; to the wider socioeconomic and political circumstances in which medical practitioners are trained, healing occurs, and medicines are produced, evaluated, and distributed. I also have an abiding interest in studies of ethnicity, identity, and citizenship, including how experiences of diaspora and exile impact subjectivities as well as concepts of "health" and health seeking behaviors, and how they shape possibilities of and for care. Much of my work is collaborative, interdisciplinary, and trained on applying critical medical anthropology perspectives and insights to ground truth health care realities in a variety of transnational contexts. I enjoy working with colleagues in biomedicine - experts in public health and global health - on issues related to medical education and clinical practice, at the intersections of medical, humanistic, and social scientific ways of knowing, grounded in the lived experiences of patients, families, communities, and health care professionals. My book Healing Elements: Efficacy and the Social Ecologies of Tibetan Medicine, investigates contemporary Tibetan medicine in Nepal and Tibetan areas of China and as a globalizing "complementary and alternative" medicine. I analyze how practitioners transmit knowledge between generations, and how they are professionalizing. I also address the translation of science across cultural, epistemological, and ideological borders by documenting what happens when Tibetan medicines are made to adhere to biomedical standards of drug safety and quality, and as they are evaluated through clinical research in Asia and the West. In Nepal and China, these dynamics reflect nation-building agendas and the politics of identity; they also illuminate an expanding global market for complementary and alternative medicines and point to the ethical, economic, and environmental challenges inherent in producing traditional medicines for mass markets. I first traveled to Nepal in 1993, on an undergraduate study abroad program, and have been returning to this part of the world ever since. My earliest ethnographic work centered on ethnoveterinary practices and human-animal interactions, with a specific focus on the role of the horse in local culture and economy, religious symbolism and ritual practice, and as important figures in agro-pastoral life, including during moments of intense and rapid socio-economic change. The research I conducted at this time forms the basis of Horses Like Lightning: A Story of Passage Through the Himalayas, a work of creative nonfiction. I remain interested in dynamics between human and non-human lives and ways of being. I am committed to writing across genres. My children's book, Clear Sky, Red Earth: A Himalayan Story, with Nepali artist Tenzin Norbu, is in its third edition and has also been published in Tibetan. I have collaborated with photographer Kevin Bubriski on Mustang in Black and White, a project that combines Bubriski's images of Mustang, Nepal, with my text. I have worked with new music composer Andrea Clearfield on several projects - Tse Go La and Khandroma - which include my original poetry and are inspired by Tibetan and Himalayan cultural worlds. My current book project, The Ends of Kinship: Connecting Himalayan Lives between Nepal and New York (2020, University of Washington Press) combines narrative ethnography with short fiction. I was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship (2018-19) to work on this project. + View more View Curriculum Vitae Contact Sienna.R.Craig@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646-9356 403B Silsby HB 6047 Education B.A. Brown University (1995) M.A. Cornell University (2002) Ph.D. Cornell University (2006) Areas of Expertise Medical and cultural anthropology /social studies of science and medicine /ethnographic writing /global health /women’s health /development studies /professionalization, expertise, and knowledge transmission /diaspora, citizenship, identity, belonging /South and East Asia (Nepal, greater Himalaya, Tibetan areas of China) Selected Publications 2021 Art and Ethnographic Form in Dark Times: Revisiting Joy, Considering Suffering. Cultural Anthropology – Theorizing the Contemporary. Y. Stainova and S.R. Craig, eds., invited submission of ten original essays and an introduction by the editors. https://culanth.org/fieldsights/series/art-and-ethnographic-forms-in-dark-times. 2021. Global Pandemic, Translocal Medicine: The COVID-19 Diaries of a Tibetan Physician in New York City. S.R. Craig, N.T. Gurung, R. Perlin, M. Daurio, D. Kaufman, and M. Turin. Asian Medicine 16: 58-88, special issue on the novel coronavirus and Asian medical responses. 2021. Unsettling the American Dream: Mobility, Migration, and Precarity among Translocal Himalayan Communities during COVID-19. T. W. Gurung, E. Amburgy, and S.R. Craig. Development and Change. DOI: 10.1111/dech.12670. 2021. Healing Through History: A Qualitative Evaluation of a Social Medicine Consultation Curriculum for Internal Medicine Residents. J. Bradley, D. Styren, A. Ward, J. Howe, S.R. Craig, and E. Cohen. BMC Medical Education 21(95): 1-9. https://doi.org/10.1186/s12909-021-02505-1. 2020. The Ends of Kinship: Connecting Himalayan Lives Between Nepal and New York. Seattle, WA: University of Washington Press. 2020. Responding to an Unfolding Pandemic: Asian Medicines and COVID-19. Cultural Anthropology – Hot Spots Series. S.R. Craig, B. Gerke, and J. van der Valk, eds. URL: https://culanth.org/fieldsights/series/responding-to-an-unfolding-pandemic-asian-medicines-and-covid-19 [A curated and peer-reviewed collection of 18 essays about Asian medical responses to the pandemic, as well as the historical, cultural, and political-economic contexts of epidemics in Asia, with contributions from scholars and practitioners. Published online June 23, 2020.] 2020. Sowa Rigpa Humanitarianism: Local Logics of Care Within a Global Politics of Compassion. S.R. Craig, B. Gerke, V. Sheldon. Medical Anthropology Quarterly. DOI: 10.1111/maq.12561. 2020. Subversive Maps: How Digital Language Mapping Can Support Biocultural Diversity. M. Daurio, S.R. Craig, D. Kaufman, R. Perlin, and M. Turin. Terralingua: Langscape Journal, May 19, 2020. URL: https://terralingua.org/langscape_articles/subversive-maps-how-digital-language-mapping-can-support-biocultural-diversity/ 2020. On Unreliable Narrators. In C. McGranahan, ed. Writing Anthropology: Essays on Craft and Commitment. Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 93-98. 2019. Letters for Mother. Book 2.0 9 (1-2): 142-149. 2019. Narrating Disaster through Participatory Research: Responding to Post-Earthquake Nepal. G. Childs, S.R. Craig, D. N. Dhakal, M. Donohue, K. Hildebrandt. Collaborative Anthropologies 10 (1-2): 207-236. 2018. Exploring the Surgical Gaze through Literature and Art. K. Kirkland and S.R. Craig. Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) 319 (15): 1532-1534. URL: https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2678593. 2018. Mustang in Black and White. Photographs by Kevin Bubriski, Text by Sienna Craig. Kathmandu: Vajra Publications. 2018. Orality and Mobility: Documenting Himalayan Voices in New York City. N.T. Gurung, R. Perlin, D. Kaufman, M. Turin, S.R. Craig. Verge: Studies in Global Asia 4(2): 64-80. 2018. Orienting to Medicine: Scripting Professionalism, Hierarchy, and Social Difference at the Start of Medical School. S.R. Craig, R. Scott, K. Blackwood. Culture, Medicine, and Psychiatry. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11013-018-9580-0. 2018. The Khora of Migration: Everyday Practices of (Well)-Being between Mustang, Nepal and New York City. S.R. Craig and N.T. Gurung, In D. Gellner and S. Hausner, eds. Global Nepalis: Religion and Culture in a New Diaspora. Oxford and New Delhi: Oxford University Press, 271-300. 2017. What is Anthropology? In What is …? In D. Rockmore, ed. A guided Tour of the Great Ideas of the Liberal Arts. Lebanon, NH: University of New England Press. 2016. Naming and Forgetting: Sowa Rigpa and the Recognition of Asian Medical Systems. S.R. Craig and B. Gerke. MedicineAnthropologyTheory. URL: http://www.medanthrotheory.org/read/6701/naming-and-forgetting. 2016. Craig, S., C.M. Beall, G. Childs. Closing the Womb Door: Contraception Use and the Fertility Transition among Three Generations of Buddhist Women in Highland Nepal. Accepted, Maternal Child Health, special issue on mountain communities. DOI 10.1007/s10995-016-2017-x. 2015. (Co)Producing Efficacious Medicines: Collaborative Event Ethnography with Himalayan and Tibetan Sowa Rigpa Practitioners. C. Blaikie, S. Craig, B. Gerke, and T. Hofer. Current Anthropology 56(2): 178-204 2015. Alternative Accounting in Maternal and Infant Global Health. V. Adams, S. Craig, A. Samen. Global Public Health. DOI: 10.1080/17441692.2015.1021364 2014. Depopulation on a Himalayan Scale: Educational and Monastic Child Migration from Ethnically Tibetan Valleys in Nepal. G. Childs, S. Craig, C. Beall, B. Basnyet. Mountain Research and Development 34(2): 85-94. 2012. Healing Elements: Efficacy and the Social Ecologies of Tibetan Medicine. Berkeley: University of California Press. 2011. Migration, Social Change, Health, and the Realm of the Possible: Women’s Stories from Nepal to New York. Anthropology and Humanism 36(2):193-214. 2010 Medicine Between Science and Religion: Explorations on Tibetan Grounds. V. Adams, M. Schrempf, and S. Craig eds. London and New York: Berghahn Books. 2008. Horses Like Lightning: A Story of Passage through the Himalayas . Boston, MA: Wisdom Publications. + View more Related Links The Ends of Kinship Website Personal Website South House Website Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia People People Diversity & Inclusion My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback