Apply Visit Give Skip to Content University of Oregon UO Home | Dept Index CAS Anthropology Department of Anthropology Menu Welcome About Us People Undergraduate Graduate Research Museum Events Useful Links Contact Us About Us Origin of the Department Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Visitor Information Donate Contact Us Faculty Login Graduate Login + Submenu Cultural Anthropology Course list – Cultural Anthropology Checklist Cultural anthropology at the University of Oregon embraces a diverse array of approaches to the study of culture and society. Students learn to take what we often see as individual experiences and connect them to larger social issues, achieving cross-cultural understanding and critical social awareness. Faculty and graduate students in the department conduct research on a wide range of theoretical questions about culture and society, applying ethnographic, historical, comparative and interdisciplinary methodologies. Cultural anthropology faculty conduct research in South Asia, the Middle East, Europe, West Africa, North America and throughout Latin America and the Caribbean. The faculty’s areas of focus include: • inequality and power: social justice, indigenous and human rights, migration, social movements, identity and representations, nationalisms, religion, race, sex, gender and sexuality • engaging communities: cultural heritage, historic preservation, cultural resource management, expressive culture and performance, critical and decolonial praxis/methods • global cultural connections: globalization, political economy, development, nationalisms, labor, tourism, migration, area studies, conflict, psychology, folklore, and medical anthropology. The cultural program is highly interdisciplinary and involves collaborations with the other anthropological subfields, with researchers across campus, and with international scholars. The research experience and skills students gain can be used in careers in law, medicine, education, government, business, and other fields. Cultural anthropology faculty are also involved in numerous initiatives, projects, programs and centers across campus. Some of these include: • Folklore Program • The Oregon Folklife Network • The Center for Latina/o and Latin American Studies (CLLAS) • Ethnic Studies • The Center for the Study of Women in Society (CSWS) • The Center for Asian and Pacific Studies (CAPS) • Latinx Studies • Black Studies Program Core Faculty Maria Fernanda Escallón Lamia Karim Dr. Leah Lowthorp Johanna Richlin Phillip W. Scher Lynn Stephen Michelle Scalise Sugiyama Department of Anthropology 1218 University of Oregon Eugene OR 97403 541-346-5102 Main Office – 308 Condon Hall Search for: Condon Hall Building Hours 7:00 am – 7:00 pm 1321 Kincaid Street Eugene, OR 97403 Donate Contact Us Faculty Login Graduate Login © 2022 University of Oregon. Privacy Policy. Developed by Development Services Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.