Skip to Main Content Brown University Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Students Guest Speakers Search Menu Site Navigation Home Who We Are People Faculty Bookshelf History Connect With Us Undergraduate Studies Concentration Requirements Tracks Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Graduate Studies Ph.D. Program Funding Courses Current Students Graduates of the Program News Events Past Events Search Anthropology Beyond the Concentration Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Studies Sub Navigation In This Section Concentration Requirements Tracks Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Beyond the Concentration Anthropology offers a distinct perspective for understanding and interpreting the complexity of human experience, past and present. As a result, Anthropology concentrators are well equipped to pursue careers in a diversity of fields. Generally, Anthropology concentrators follow one of three trajectories after graduating from Brown: graduate studies in Anthropology (or a related field), graduate studies in a professional field, or a professional career that builds on their undergraduate training. Releasing Poloc. Photo by Lauren Deal. Graduate Studies in Anthropology Students interested in a career as an anthropologist (or in a closely related academic discipline) will need to pursue a graduate degree, minimally a Master's degree but more commonly a Ph.D. Professional anthropologists are employed in academia (universities, museums, etc.) or in non-academic careers in the public and private sectors. Brown University Anthropology concentrators have pursued graduate training in all areas of anthropology: socio-cultural anthropology (including medical anthropology), anthropological archaeology, linguistic anthropology, and biological anthropology. Students considering graduate studies in anthropology should recognize the importance of not only their classroom performance but also extracurricular activities and should especially consider pursuing an honors or senior research project during their final years at Brown. They should reach out to concentration advisors and faculty early on, to learn more about what graduate studies will entail and how to prepare. Graduate Studies in a Professional Field Anthropology is an appropriate concentration for a variety of professional fields that require further training after the undergraduate degree, such as law or medical school. Brown anthropology concentrators benefit from an education that emphasizes a holistic understanding of the human condition, one that draws on a diversity of perspectives and approaches. Since aspects of our discipline are grounded in the humanities, social sciences, and the natural sciences, students can readily tailor their concentration to fit their particular post-graduate interests. Professional Career A concentration in Anthropology can usefully lead to a wide range of careers. Our discipline's concern with health, international perspectives, diversity, and inequality equips students to work in a wide range of fields, such as local and international development, education, communication and advertising, fine arts, language instruction, and non-profit and non-governmental organizations. Alumni Pathways Take a look at what Anthropology concentrators are doing… ...in their first year after graduation ...5 and 10 years after graduation Resources for Program Graduates Brown Anthropology Ph.D. Program CareerLAB BrownConnect AAA Study on Employment of Undergraduate Anthropology Majors Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Students Guest Speakers Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Who We Are People Faculty Bookshelf History Connect With Us Undergraduate Studies Concentration Requirements Tracks Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Graduate Studies Ph.D. Program Funding Courses Current Students Graduates of the Program News Events Past Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Beyond the Concentration Open details for Beyond the Concentration Bookmark this Page