Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Anthropology Department of Anthropology Contact Us Facebook Anthropology.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Back to Top Nav Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia Back to Top Nav People People Diversity & Inclusion Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Wesbrook Prize Winners The Department of Anthropology awards the Mary E. Wesbrook prize annually for an outstanding student thesis. This prize was established by Margaret Wesbrook to honor her sister, Mary, the department's administrative assistant for thirty years. 2021 Uyen Dang '21 "Being With: Place, Memory, Silence in Young Saigon" Mary Joy '21 "Do Monkeys and Chimpanzees Climb the Same Way? A Kinematic Analysis of the Upper Limb During Vertical Climbing in a Wild Monkey (Cercocebus atys) and Ape (Pan troglodytes)" 2020 Zoe Brown '20 "Built, Felt, Lived: Healing within North American Spaces of Retreat" Nathaniel Gallagher '20 "The Blackpill and the Suffering Apparatus: Science, Masculinity, and Race as Represented on Involuntary Celibate (INCEL) Virtual Forums" Watch Nate's Video Here 2018 Sumita M. Strander ’18 "Lost in Translation: The “Good Enough” and Sevā in Dementia Care for Indian Elders" 2017 No theses were submitted 2016 Andrés Mejía-Ramón '16 "The Paleohydrology of the Teotihuacan Valley: A Multi-Method Approach in the Prospection of Subsurface Hydraulic Features in Teotihuacan, Mexico" 2015 Lindsey Y. Lam '15 “Just Child’s Play? Children’s Games and Play in Huaycán, Peru” 2014 D. August Oddleifson '13 "Chronic lllness and Identity Formation: A Study of Cystic Fibrosis." 2013 Sarah E. Cashdollar "Sex, Babies, and Identity: Hispanic Teen Pregnancy as Identity Negotiation in Doña Ana County, New Mexico" Jacqueline M. Waugh "Women are Our Leaders: The Role of Language, Persuasion and Narratives in Iran" 2012 Jennifer L. Koester '12 "Voluntourism: Mediating Interactions with the 'Other'" 2011 Liana Chase '11 "Coping, Healing, and Resilience: A Case Study of Bhutanese Refugees Living in Vermont" Cameron Nutt '11 "Growing Up with HIV in Urban Tanzania: An Ethnographic Study of Children’s Adherence to Antiretroviral Therapy" 2010 Rachael Kandath '10 "Anatomy of the Facial Musculature in Two Diurnal Anthropoid Primates: Exploring the Relationship Between Facial Mobility and the Muscles of Facial Expression" Natalie Young '10 "Maintaining Boundaries, Maintaining Inequality: The "Tulane Bubble" Experience of New Orleans" 2009 Robin Uhle '09 "The Lantern Festival: Illuminating the Question of Japanese Religion." (Thesis) 2008 Adam M. Levine ’08 “The Present of the Past: An Ethnography of Antiquities Collectors.” (Thesis) 2007 Jacob A. Appelbaum ’07 “Transforming Culture in a Modern World: Local Agency and Change in Tokelau.” (Thesis) 2006 Alexandra Y. Spielhagen ’06 "Reclaiming Č’ixwcən: Contesting Burial Rights in the Pacific Northwest.” 2005 M. Chloe Mulderig ’05 "Redefining 'Tradition' as a Dynamic Force: Challenges Facing the Tourist Industry in the Medina of Fès, Morocco" 2004 Tate LeFevre ’04 "Seizing Identity, Manipulating Globalization: Vindicating Indigenous Culture Locally While Exporting It Globally in Lifou, New Caledonia" William F.P. Reynolds ’04 "The Role of a Specialized Pastoral Economy in Early Political Developments in Yemen" 2003 Marina Kwai Shan Ma ’03 "Examining Prehispanic Ceramic Exchange in the Basin of Mexico: A Chemical Source Analysis from Azcapotzalco" 2002 Shannon C. Stoval '02 "Rethinking Occupational Stress Markers: A Case Study from Bronze Age Tell Abraq, United Arab Emirates" 2001 Jeffrey A. Kahn '01 "Pilgrimage and Vodou: Rituals of Renegotiation and Reaffirmation in Northern Haiti" 2000 Rachel C. Fleming '00 "The Future of "Tradition:" The Influence of Comhaltas Ceoltóirí Éireann on Traditional Music and Irish National Identity" 1999 Kristin Sullivan '98 "Daily Life in the City of the Gods: Household Funerary Analysis of Two Site at Teotihuacan" Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia People People Diversity & Inclusion My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback