Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Anthropology Department of Anthropology Contact Us Facebook Anthropology.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Back to Top Nav Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia Back to Top Nav People People Diversity & Inclusion Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Firing Up the Distant Past, With a Handmade Kiln Posted on January 04, 2022 by Charlotte Albright News subtitle Anne Johnakin ’23 made a stone and clay oven to test fuels used in ancient ceramics. Image Image For research into ancient Greek pottery methods, Anne Johnakin ’23 built a Bronze Age-style kiln. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Body Just around the corner from the Ledyard Bridge in Norwich, behind the new Dartmouth Archaeology Station at Lewiston (DASL), stands a primitive, handmade oven—the kind that a Greek ceramist might have used more than 3,000 years ago. A rectangular limestone foundation supports a beehive-shaped clay dome. The kiln is the centerpiece of an ongoing research project by Anne Johnakin ’23. A presidential scholar with a major in anthropology modified by classical archeology, Johnakin has been working with Professor of Anthropology Jesse Casana and Assistant Professor of Classical Studies Julie Hruby to design and build the structure using materials and processes common during the Bronze Age—and to use it to make pottery typical of the era. “Anne’s research will contribute to our understanding of ancient Greek ceramic-firing technologies,” says Hruby. Quote I feel like I’ve got a better appreciation for how much work was involved in building and using these kilns. Attribution Anne Johnakin ’23 Johnakin is not just researching those technologies; she’s trying to replicate them. But finding authentic materials hasn’t been easy. Image An amphora, or Greek-style jar, that Johnakin crafted, in the process of being fired in her experimental kiln. (Courtesy of Anne Johnakin ’23) “This stuff was really hard to source because limestone is everywhere in Greece, but pretty rare in New Hampshire,” says Johnakin. “I had to get the industrial fire clay from Canada.” It was tedious work, putting the kiln together piece by piece. “I had a dozen 50-pound bags of clay delivered to the front of the lab and I had to wheelbarrow the loads to the back of the property,” says Johnakin. So far, in three firings, Johnakin has experimented with three kinds of fuel: hardwood, softwood, and animal dung. “That’s where I keep the horse poop,” she says, gesturing to buckets near the kiln. Manure is easily found in the Upper Valley, but posed the biggest challenge as a fuel in the kiln. “The hardwood and softwood worked well, but the dung was really difficult to burn,” says Johnakin. “The dung firing basically ended up being another hardwood firing, with some dung added throughout. It was a useful tool for controlling and dampening the fire when needed, but didn’t prove to add much actual fuel. If I fire it again, I would be interested in making bricks of dried dung.” Working hard with her hands has deepened Johnakin’s understanding of what it took to make sturdy, beautiful pottery in early Greece. “It can be challenging for archaeologists to conceptualize labor, because most of them belong to academia,” she says. “But I sprained my wrist mixing the clay, and that’s something that you wouldn’t have been able to know about if you hadn’t experienced it. I feel like I have a better appreciation for how much work was involved in building and using these kilns.” Johnakin, who is new to ceramics, says she’s become more skilled with practice. “I got a lot better at starting and controlling the fire as it went on,” she says. “I got some fully intact pieces of pottery by the end.” She is now writing up her results. Casana says Johnakin’s kiln puts on full display the benefits of hands-on learning made possible by the DASL lab. “Anne has had to work through the many technical and logistical challenges: gathering supplies, building the kiln, locating and storing the different types of fuel sources, and of course actually firing the pottery,” he says. “She—and the rest of us—are learning a lot about how the entire process of pottery production might have worked in antiquity, and this helps us ask new questions about people in the distant past.” Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia People People Diversity & Inclusion My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback