Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Anthropology Department of Anthropology Contact Us Facebook Anthropology.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Back to Top Nav Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia Back to Top Nav People People Diversity & Inclusion Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes Ethnography Lab Videos Other funding sources at Dartmouth Risk Management Office Committee for the Protection of Human Subjects Share Claire Garber Goodman Fund The Fund enables students and faculty to gain insight into the ideas, philosophies, and worldviews of other cultures, understand the adaptations of specific communities and populations to their natural and cultural environments, and discover within our species' biological and cultural variety universal dimensions and themes of human existence and evolution. Every year, a cohort of anthropology majors participate in our Honors Program. This involves completing independent research and writing an honors thesis rooted in one of anthropology's subfields, under the guidance of a faculty advisor or advisors. The independent research that leads to an honors thesis can be supported by the department's Claire Garber Goodman Fund. In addition to Honors, students of anthropology at Dartmouth can also complete an independent research project, eligible for funding through the Goodman Fund, that leads to a Capstone Project. PreviousNext About Claire Garber Goodman Claire Garber Goodman was born in Longview, Texas on January 17, 1933. As a child, her family moved to Memphis, Tennessee which was her home until she married Lawrence B. Goodman D'47 in 1957. Mrs. Goodman graduated from the Ten Acre and Dana Hall Schools in Wellesley, Massachusetts and graduated from Connecticut College in 1954. Mr. and Mrs. Goodman made their home in Rye, New York and were residents of that community at the time of Mrs. Goodman's death in April 1979. Mrs. Goodman is survived by her three children, Laura R., Hampshire College; Frank G, Dartmouth '82; and Emily J., Dartmouth '84. Claire Goodman received her Master's Degree in Anthropology from New York University in 1978. Her Master's thesis on copper artifacts in the native-American Mississippian period was published in 1983 by the Center for American Archeology with the title "Copper Artifacts in Late Eastern Woodlands Prehistory", edited by Anne-Marie Cantwell. The book is still in print. During her lifetime, Claire Garber Goodman expressed a wish to make a gift to Dartmouth College which would encourage and assist anthropological research by both students and faculty. Lawrence Goodman '47, her husband, has honored her wish and Dartmouth College by creating the fund which bears her name. Through this fund and the research it supports, we seek to further Claire Goodman's hope that knowledge from cross-cultural inquiry might provide new bases for enhancing prospects for universal human coexistence. Goodman Symposium 2021 May, 2021 presentations of senior honors theses, senior capstone projects, and independent research projects supported by the Claire Garber Goodman Fund for the Anthropological Study of Human Culture. Video of 2021 Goodman Symposium FULL Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia People People Diversity & Inclusion My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback