Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Department of Anthropology Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us Research and Teaching People Degrees Events News Courses Through Fall 2022 Graduate Student Life Department Administration Forms & Documents Administrative Calendar Directory of University Offices and Services Equity and Diversity Helpful Links Rights and Protections Information for Visiting Scholars About Us Early History Where We Are The Media Room Partner Programs Center for Comparative Media Center for Palestine Studies Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race Center for the Study of Social Difference Columbia Center for Archaeology Department of Middle East, South Asia, and Africa Studies Institute for Comparative Literature and Society Institute for the Study of Sexuality and Gender Middle East Institute South Asia Institute Columbia Center for Archaeology Art, Objects, Public Makings Empires, States, Sovereignties Gender, Sexuality, Genealogy, Ancestrality Human/Animal Relations, Bodies, Medicine Indigeneities, Diasporas Institutions, Law, Governmentality Intellectual and Disciplinary Histories Language, Social Theory, Critical Theory Media, Technology, Infrastructure & Urbanism Museums, Archives, Practices of Memory Slavery, Colonialism, Race, Racial Capitalism Text, Translation, Writing, Aesthetics Theater, Ritual, Performance Toxicity, Environment & Ciimate Crisis Value, Commodities, Gift and Debt War, Nationalism, Displacement, Trauma ANTHROPOLOGY AND THE SCHOLARLY PUBLIC SPHERE CREATIVE WORKS, AESTHETIC INTERVENTIONS Publications Dissertations Administration and Staff Directory Faculty Directory PhD Student Directory MA Student Directory Alumni: Beyond Columbia Undergraduate Program Overview Requirements in Sociocultural Anthropology Requirements in Archaeological Anthropology Senior Thesis Seminar FREQUENTLY TAUGHT COURSES - UNDERGRADUATE Funding Opportunities for Undergraduate Students Graduate Programs PhD Program Track in Sociocultural Anthropology Track in Archaeology Student Handbook Scheps Workshops Affiliated Programs Tips for Applying to the PhD Program MA Program MA in Sociocultural Anthropology MA in Museum Anthropology Affiliated Programs FREQUENTLY TAUGHT COURSES - GRADUATE All Events Franz Boas Seminars - 2021-2022 Franz Boas Seminars - 2020 -2021 Past Franz Boas Seminars Ruth Benedict Lectures - 2022 Ruth Benedict Lecture Series Online Events Diversity & Equity Grant to Support Enhanced Research and Pedagogy for Graduate Students Graduate Student Achievements and Congratulations Graduate Student Events and Activities Past Scheps Workshops Graduate Teaching Resources Resources for Graduate Research, Writing and Jobs Alumni Stories Hurston-Deloria Fellowships for Doctoral Study Department of Anthropology You are here: Home Faculty Directory Naor H. Ben-Yehoyada Naor H. Ben-Yehoyada Naor H. Ben-Yehoyada Assistant Professor My Contact Info 470 Schermerhorn Extension, Mail Code: 5523, United States Director of Undergraduate Studies for Spring 2021 Office Hours Wednesdays 14:00 – 16:00, sign up here. (212) 854-8936 [email protected] Naor H. Ben-Yehoyada Research Interests War, Nationalism, Displacement, Trauma Value, Commodities, Gift & Debt Language, Social Theory, Critical Theory Slavery, Colonialism, Race, Racial Capitalism Museums, Archives, Practices of Memory Empires, States, Sovereignties Research Concentrations Relatedness, Seas and Littorals, Criminalization, Policing, Law and Society, Archives and Document Regions Mediterranean; Italy Biography Naor Ben-Yehoyada's work examines unauthorized migration, criminal justice, the aftermath of development, and transnational political imaginaries in the central and eastern Mediterranean. His monograph, The Mediterranean Incarnate: Transnational Region Formation between Sicily and Tunisia since World War II (Chicago Press, 2017), offers a historical anthropology of the recent re-emergence of the Mediterranean. He is specifically interested in the processes through which transnational regions form and dissipate. He proposes to view such spaces as ever-changing constellations, and show how we can to study them from the moving vessels that weave these constellations together and stage their social relations and dynamics in full view. He has also written shorter pieces about the different phases of the dynamics of maritime unauthorized migration and interdiction, as well as on the role that the Mediterranean’s seabed plays in Italian political retrospection. His current project follows perpetual debate about what the Mafia is and how anti-Mafia forms of inquiry (by magistrates, journalists, political activists, police investigators) encounter this dilemma. It follows the recent trial regarding the 1988 murder of a journalist and the several preceding key criminal cases that the trial has revived, all of which, people still assume, involved the Mafia. He focuses on the doubts, suspicions, and disputes that arise at the intersection of different forms of inquiry by magistrates, journalists, police investigators, and politicians. He argues that the epistemic tensions between magistrates and other actors turn the wider field of anti-Mafia inquiry into a key moving site of the struggle over the relationship between law, society, and the state. Education Harvard University, PhD in Social Anthropology, 2011 Tel Aviv University, MA in Sociology and Anthropology, 2005 Expand all Collapse all Bibliography 2018. “Heritage Washed Ashore: Underwater Archaeology and Regionalist Imaginaries in the Central Mediterranean.” In Critically Mediterranean: Temporalities, Aesthetics, and Deployments of a Sea in Crisis, edited by yasser elhariry and Edwige Tamalet Talbayev, 217-239. New York: Palgrave Macmillan. 2018b. “Time at Sea, Time on Land: Temporal Horizons of Rescue and Refuge in the Mediterranean and Europe.” In Migration, Temporality, and Capitalism, edited by Pauline Gardiner Barber and Winnie Lem, 63–79. Cham: Palgrave Macmillan. 2018c. “Where Do We Go When We Follow the Money? The Political-Economic Construction of Antimafia Investigators in Western Sicily.” History and Anthropology 29, no. 3: 359–375. 2017. The Mediterranean Incarnate: Transnational Region Formation between Sicily and Tunisia since World War II. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. 2015. “‘Follow Me, and I Will Make You Fishers of Men’: The Moral and Political Scales of Migration in the Central Mediterranean.” Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute 22, no. 1: 183-202. 2014. “Mediterranean Modernity?” In A Companion to Mediterranean History, edited by Peregrine Horden and Sharon Kinoshita, 107-121. London: Wiley & Sons. 2014b. “Transnational Political Cosmology: A Central Mediterranean Example.” Comparative Studies in Society and History 56, no. 4: 870-901. 2013. “The Men Who Knew Too Much: Sardines, skills, and the labor process in Jaffa, Israel, 1948–1979.” Focaal - Journal of Global and Historical Anthropology 2013, no. 63: 91-106. Expand all Collapse all Click on the Iicon to access Naor Ben-Yehoyada's media page. Courses Taught Spring 2021 THE INTERPRETATION OF CULTURE 3 pts, UN1002 Selected Publications The Mediterranean Incarnate: Region Formation Between Sicily and Tunisia Since World War II Naor Ben-Yehoyada ‘Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men’: the moral and political scales of migration in the central Mediterranean Naor Ben‐Yehoyada Transnational political cosmology: a central Mediterranean example Naor Ben‐Yehoyada Mediterranean Modernity? Naor Ben-Yehoyada Department of Anthropology1200 Amsterdam Avenue, Schermerhorn Extension, Room 452 · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-4552 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close