Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Anthropology Department of Anthropology Contact Us Facebook Anthropology.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Back to Top Nav Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Back to Top Nav Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia Back to Top Nav People People Diversity & Inclusion Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Honors Program Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Share Alumni Where they are and what they do Adam Levine ’08 Adam Levine, former anthro major and Rhodes Scholar, was named deputy director of The Toledo Museum of Art. “These three proven leaders are key to ushering the Toledo Museum of Art into its next exciting phase of growth and development,” said director Brian Kennedy. “We are fortunate to have them share their broad strategic talents and contributions as part of our senior management team.” From article in Artforum.com To read the full article in Artforum.com click here Adam Kraus '14 Adam Kraus is currently finishing a dual MD-MPH degree at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, where he is focusing on global health. Prior to starting medical school, Adam spent a year working in rural Haiti on community-based health programming (water treatment, traditional birth attendants, mobile clinics, chronic disease treatment). In his words: "My Anthropology degree has undergirded all of my work after graduation. The critical lens through which I learned to appraise situations during the degree informs my interactions with my patients, as well as my global health work. I am passionate about integrating social sciences with medicine to better solve systemic problems afflicting low-income and marginalized communities and provide better preventive healthcare for these populations". Bridget Alex '08 is a graduate student in the Department of Anthropology and Human Evolutionary Biology at Harvard University. Her research interests are: Dietary and environmental reconstructions, stable isotopes, Paleolithic Europe. Bridget presented a poster at the American Association of Physical Anthropology Meeting. Her research was funded by the Claire Garber Goodman Fund. Benjamin Jastrzembski '08 Ten years ago, Dr. James Saunders, a DHMC otolaryngologist, founded Mayflower Medical Outreach, a nonprofit organization that provides hearing-related health services in Nicaragua.... read the full article in Dartmouth Medicine Winter 2009 and view the videos at http://dartmed.dartmouth.edu/winter09/html/uphill_battle_we/ Marylin Morano Lord '95 Marylin Morano Lord teaches world history, US history and anthropology at Kimball Union Academy. A proponent of the creative use of technology, she introduced an innovative approach to teaching world history using a video simulation called Civilization III that has become the model for fellow educators and has prompted the manufacturer to institute an educational division. Lyn, together with network administrator Miranda Clemson, has introduced KUTube, the first YOUTube-style video sharing website at a secondary school, as an afternoon activity starting in 2007. In between classes she helps to coach skiing, advises Model UN, and is house head of Chellis. Lacey Andrews Gale '92 Lacey Andrews Gale is a researcher at the Feinstein International Center at Tufts University (http://fic.tufts.edu/). She received her Ph.D. in Cultural Anthropology and Population Studies from Brown University (2005). Her research covers issues related to refugees and the role of families in transnational livelihoods. Gale's recent publications examine humanitarian assistance, refugee camp life, and post-conflict society in West Africa. As a consultant for the International Rescue Committee she produced a photo-documentary and traveling exhibit focused on camp closure and repatriation among refugee populations in West Africa. She recently concluded a fieldwork project with the Sudanese Darfurian refugee population in Portland Maine which examined remittance-sending patterns to Sudan and Egypt. She has also collaborated with the United Somali Women of Maine to create an educational multi-media DVD-funded by the Maine Women's Fund and the Maine Humanities Council-which focuses on the lives of newly resettled Somali women and their families in Lewiston-Auburn. Her current international research focuses on child fostering practices in post-conflict Sierra Leone. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Global Health Minor How to Declare an Anthropology Major or Minor Courses Introductory Courses Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Independent Study Culminating Seminars Past Teaching Schedules Honors Program Honors Proposal Submission Form Transfer Credits Careers Alumni: Where Are They Now? Tell us your Story Graduate Foreign Study Overview Applying for the FSP While You Are There Student Experiences Research Independent Research Overview Claire Garber Goodman Fund Student Research Projects Faculty Research Projects Goodman STUDENT Research Funding Form Goodman Student Conference Support Goodman FACULTY Research Funding Form McKennan Postdoc Fellowship Prizes McKennan Prize Winners Wesbrook Prize Winners Ethnography Lab Videos News & Events News & Events Student News Faculty News Symposiums & Conferences Lectures & Colloquia People People Diversity & Inclusion My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback