Skip to Main Content Brown University Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Students Guest Speakers Search Menu Site Navigation Home Who We Are People Faculty Bookshelf History Connect With Us Undergraduate Studies Concentration Requirements Tracks Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Graduate Studies Ph.D. Program Funding Courses Current Students Graduates of the Program News Events Past Events Search Anthropology Funding Breadcrumb Home Graduate Studies Sub Navigation In This Section Ph.D. Program Funding Courses Current Students Graduates of the Program Funding Village deity, Khandarani surrounded by offerings of terracotta horses and elephants made over the years. Bankura, West Bengal, 2018. Photo by: Ahona Palchoudhuri All students admitted to Brown’s PhD program in anthropology are offered a generous, 5-year funding package that covers tuition and provides an annual stipend. Funding for a sixth year is also available through the Graduate School. Our annual cohort size of entering students is large enough to have lively, stimulating discussions in seminar courses but small enough to maximize the financial support we can provide and to promote intensive faculty mentorship. In addition, the department, interdisciplinary units at Brown, and the graduate school all have a wide range of supplemental funds available to graduate students, on either a competitive or need-based basis, for needs directly related to the program of study such as summer research funding, conference travel, and language learning. External Funding Peruvian celebration in Madrid, Spain Entering students are strongly encouraged to apply for additional external funding to support their time at Brown, such as the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship. Third-year students pursue external funding to support their upcoming dissertation fieldwork. Faculty provide advice and mentorship to students as they apply for these funds. Some of these opportunities can be found on a student-generated list (you must have a Brown email to access this list). Others can be accessed through the Graduate School’s list of external funding opportunities. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Students Guest Speakers Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Who We Are People Faculty Bookshelf History Connect With Us Undergraduate Studies Concentration Requirements Tracks Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Graduate Studies Ph.D. Program Funding Courses Current Students Graduates of the Program News Events Past Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Funding Open details for Funding Bookmark this Page