This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... custom css-js - global Arts & Architecture Tours Interested in performing/visual arts or architecture? Special tours of facilities within the School of Liberal Arts and the School of Architecture are available to prospective students interested in these areas of study at Tulane. Performing/Visual Arts Tours To schedule, select a date on the calendar and then click a time. Be sure to register at least five days in advance. Time and duration depend on student interests: we offer tours in music (including musical theatre), dance, theatre, and studio art. Facilities include Dixon Hall, McWilliams Hall, Newcomb Art Museum, and Woldenberg Art Center (buildings 68-70 & 81-83 on campus map). Please contact Angel Carter at acarte3@tulane.edu if you have any problems with tour registration, if you'd like to learn more about these departments through an in-person meeting or phone call, or if you need to cancel your reservation. Arts tours are typically one-on-one events, so to be considerate of our students' time between classes, we will alert the guide if your visiting group can no longer attend. Legend: Available Unavailable / Filled Not Scheduled School of Architecture Information Sessions To schedule, select a date on the calendar and then click a time. Information sessions are available most Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. Virtual and in-person information sessions are both available. Upon registering for a virtual session, you will receive an email with a link to join. Legend: Available Unavailable / Filled Not Scheduled Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright © 2021 Tulane University