Skip to Main Content Brown University Applied Mathematics Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History Association of Women in Mathematics at Brown Position Openings Contact DEI in APMA Community DEI Activities DEI Committee Newsletter Support Undergraduate Concentrations Concentration Advisors Honors Directed Reading Research and Internship Opportunities Awards AMDUG Student Groups Undergraduate Student Groups Graduate Our Advisors Prospective Masters Students Prospective PhD Students Current Students Master’s Program in Data Science Ph.D. Program in Computational Molecular Biology Graduate Student Awards Internship Opportunities Student Groups Graduate Handbook Prelim Information People Faculty Visiting Scholars Postdocs Graduate Students Staff Research Research Areas Research Institutes and Centers Research Groups Research Grants Seminars/Events PDE Seminars Probability Seminars Combinatorics Seminars Applied Mathematics Colloquium LCDS Seminars Pattern Theory Seminars SEAM Seminars Scientific Computing Seminars News Search Applied Mathematics Selected DEI Activities in Applied Mathematics Sub Navigation In This Section Community DEI Activities DEI Committee Newsletter Support The Prison Math Program Since 2012, faculty and students from Applied Math and related departments have taught introductory mathematics courses at the Rhode Island state prison. These courses are organized and accredited by the Community College of Rhode Island (CCRI), and Prof. Matt Harrison has facilitated the connection between Applied Math and CCRI's prison teaching program. Contact: Matthew_Harrison@brown.edu Link to Website Brown University Student Chapter of the Association for Women in Mathematics The Associations for Women in Applied Mathematics Chapter at the Division of Applied Mathematics was established in the Fall of 2013 by graduate student Amanda Howard and faculty representative, Prof. Kavita Ramanan. The association's mission is to encourage women to develop their mathematical talent, and to attain their potential in their academic and intellectual pursuits in the mathematical sciences. Founded in 1971, the AWM continues to burgeon, offering an essential forum to the rising number of young women interested in pursuing graduate studies in the mathematical sciences. Contact: Becky_Durst@brown.edu, Tiffany_Ding@brown.edu Link to Website APMA 1910: Race and Gender in the Scientific Community This course examines disparities in representation in the scientific community, issues facing different groups in the sciences, and paths towards a more inclusive scientific environment. It delves into the current statistics on racial and gender demographics in the sciences and explores their background through texts dealing with the history, philosophy, and sociology of science. It also explores the specific problems faced by under-represented and well-represented racial and ethnic minorities, women, and LGBTQ community members. The course is reading intensive and discussion based. Bjorn Sandstede, professor of applied mathematics, is a regular instructor for the course. Contact: Bjorn Sandstede Link to Website Math CoOp The Math CoOp, founded in January 2014, is a volunteer-run organization, comprised of students, post-doctoral fellows and faculty who share a common passion for math outreach. We typically meet on a monthly basis to discuss suitable math outreach topics and develop presentations for students at all levels, ranging from K12 to undergraduates and also adult non-experts. We then give presentations at schools and other venues. The Math CoOp also engages in other outreach activities such as the SEAM seminar and various Mathematics Without Borders lecture activities, including the bilingual math outreach lecture series, Mathematics Sin Fronteras. Contact: Kavita_Ramanan@brown.edu Link to Website SEAM Seminar The Social Equity and Applied Mathematics (SEAM) seminar series and working group is an initiative of the Math CoOp at Brown University whose aim is to discuss mathematical models, and theoretical and computational aspects of problems that are of relevance to social equity in the world. This seminar series aims to create broader awareness of varied societal issues and quantitative approaches used to study them, and bring together a diverse group of interdisciplinary researchers with different backgrounds and levels of experience who are deeply interested in these issues. We hope it also inspires new directions of both applied research as well as fundamental mathematical theory that can shed light on solutions to these problems. Contact: Kavita_Ramanan@brown.edu Link to Website Mathematics Sin Fronteras (MSF) Mathematics Sin Fronteras (MSF) is a Pan-American (virtual) bilingual (English-Spanish) extracurricular weekly math outreach lecture series is spread over a 3-month period. The goal of MSF is to introduce (1st and 2nd year) undergraduate students from diverse backgrounds across South, Central and North America to mathematics and its applications in an engaging and inclusive way that complements the usual university/college math curriculum. The aim is also to promote cross-cultural communication by connecting students across the Americas with a passion for math, and provide them with the opportunity to interact with leading researchers in their fields in a bilingual environment. Contact: Kavita_Ramanan@brown.edu Link to Website Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History Association of Women in Mathematics at Brown Position Openings Contact DEI in APMA Community DEI Activities DEI Committee Newsletter Support Undergraduate Concentrations Concentration Advisors Honors Directed Reading Research and Internship Opportunities Awards AMDUG Student Groups Undergraduate Student Groups Graduate Our Advisors Prospective Masters Students Prospective PhD Students Current Students Master’s Program in Data Science Ph.D. Program in Computational Molecular Biology Graduate Student Awards Internship Opportunities Student Groups Graduate Handbook Prelim Information People Faculty Visiting Scholars Postdocs Graduate Students Staff Research Research Areas Research Institutes and Centers Research Groups Research Grants Seminars/Events PDE Seminars Probability Seminars Combinatorics Seminars Applied Mathematics Colloquium LCDS Seminars Pattern Theory Seminars SEAM Seminars Scientific Computing Seminars News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Selected DEI Activities in Applied Mathematics Open details for Selected DEI Activities in Applied Mathematics Bookmark this Page