This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. columbia_dusk GSAPP Online Application For Admission To create an application, scroll to the bottom of the page and select "Create an account" if you're a first-time user, or "Log in" if you're a returning user. Applicants must submit all materials directly, not through an agent or third-party vendor, with the following exceptions: submissions by the U.S. Department of State’s Fulbright Program and its three partner agencies IIE, LASPAU and AMIDEAST; submissions by the Danish-American Fulbright Commission (DAF); and submissions by Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst (DAAD). In addition, the applicant will be required to attest to the accuracy and authenticity of all information and documents submitted to Columbia. If you have any questions about this requirement, please contact the Office of Admissions at arch_admissions@columbia.edu. Failure to submit complete, accurate, and authentic application documents consistent with these instructions may result in denial or revocation of admission, cancellation of academic credit, suspension, expulsion, or eventual revocation of degree. Applicants may be required to assist admissions staff and faculty involved in admission reviews in the verification of all documents and statements made in documents submitted by students as part of the application review process. A non-refundable application fee of $75 (payable by Visa or MasterCard only) is due at the time of application submission. Please see the Application Process webpage for the specific application requirements of each program. Application Deadlines Degree Programs January 3, 2022: Master of ArchitectureJanuary 15, 2022: M.S. Advanced Architectural Design M.S. Architecture and Urban Design M.S. Computational Design Practices M.S. Critical, Curatorial, and Conceptual Practices M.S. Historic Preservation M.S. Real Estate Development M.S. Urban PlanningApplicants may only submit one application, with the exception of approved dual degree programs. Please see the GSAPP website for the approved dual degree programs. Dual degree candidates must submit a separate application for each program. Non-Degree Programs Rolling Admission: Shape of City: New York/Paris Intro to Architecture Visiting ScholarAugust 15 (Fall term) / December 1 (Spring term): Special Student Ph.D. Programs December 16, 2021: Ph.D. in Urban PlanningJanuary 4, 2022: Ph.D. in Architecture Ph.D. in Historic PreservationPlease note that the Ph.D. in Architecture, Ph.D. in Historic Preservation, and Ph.D. in Urban Planning programs are administered by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS). The online application as well as instructions, deadlines, and procedures are available on the GSAS website. FAFSA Applicants who wish to apply for Student Loans and Work Study should complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) online at http://fafsa.ed.gov/ Please note that although there is no official deadline for the FAFSA, Columbia University Student Financial Planning requires 4-6 weeks to prepare a Financial Aid Package. Applicants should plan accordingly if they wish to receive notice of federal funding by April 1st. Returning users:Log in to continue an application. First-time users:Create an account to start a new application. Columbia University Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation 1172 Amsterdam Avenue New York, New York 10027 (212) 854-3414 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube © 2017 Columbia University / Colophon