This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Skip to main content Harvard College Primary Navigation About Admissions Financial Aid Academics Life at Harvard 2022 In-Person Campus Visit We welcome you to attend a campus visit of Harvard College. A campus visit consists of a one hour information session with an admissions officer and 1-2 current undergraduate students, followed by a one hour campus tour led by a current undergraduate student. Please note that visits are typically posted one month prior to each semester/summer session. RegistrationRegistration for a campus visit is required. We recommend that you arrive 15-30 minutes before the scheduled visit time. You may cancel your registration at any time. We cannot accommodate walk-ins. COVID-19 Precautions A negative COVID test is not required for building entry, however all visitors and their guests must agree neither they nor their family members will attend an event if they have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 14 days, been exposed to someone who has tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 14 days, or experienced symptoms of COVID-19 within 48 hours prior to the event. An email reminder will go out to all registered attendees 48 hours before the event. Group Visits/Tours We cannot accommodate groups of more than ten people. For a group visit/tour, please contact the Harvard Information Center. Important information for your visit Most buildings are closed to the public, due to pandemic restrictions. Public restrooms will be available in the Elizabeth Cary Agassiz House before/after the information session, and at the end of the tour at Smith Campus Center. At this time, it is not possible to store luggage or other personal property during your visit. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause, especially for families who have traveled long distances to join us. Your registration and attendance have no bearing on the admissions process should you decide to apply. Legend: Available Unavailable / Filled Not Scheduled Site Footer Social Links Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Legal Links Privacy Copyright Disclosure Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President & Fellows of Harvard College Harvard College If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you.