Skip to Main Content Brown University Applied Mathematics Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History Association of Women in Mathematics at Brown Position Openings Contact DEI in APMA Community DEI Activities DEI Committee Newsletter Support Undergraduate Concentrations Concentration Advisors Honors Directed Reading Research and Internship Opportunities Awards AMDUG Student Groups Undergraduate Student Groups Graduate Our Advisors Prospective Masters Students Prospective PhD Students Current Students Master’s Program in Data Science Ph.D. Program in Computational Molecular Biology Graduate Student Awards Internship Opportunities Student Groups Graduate Handbook Prelim Information People Faculty Visiting Scholars Postdocs Graduate Students Staff Research Research Areas Research Institutes and Centers Research Groups Research Grants Seminars/Events PDE Seminars Probability Seminars Combinatorics Seminars Applied Mathematics Colloquium LCDS Seminars Pattern Theory Seminars SEAM Seminars Scientific Computing Seminars News Search Applied Mathematics Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Sub Navigation In This Section Community DEI Activities DEI Committee Newsletter Support Welcome to the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee of the Division of Applied Mathematics! Our departmental Diversity and Inclusion Committee meets bi-weekly. Our goals are to develop plans to improve climate and increase diversity and inclusion. We will also work on a revision of the 2016 departmental diversity and inclusion action plan (follow the link to view this plan). There is also a website devoted to the Academic Department DIAPs. Please feel free to reach out to us! In Spring 2022, the Applied Math diversity, equity, and inclusion committee consists of Teressa Chambers, Giorgio Cocomello, Stuart Geman, Candida Hall, Bjorn Sandstede, Moyi Tian, and Rosanna Wertheimer. If you have any concerns, ideas, or suggestions, please reach out to us! Our Applied Math Comment Box allows you to leave comments/suggestions and to report incidents anonymously to the department. Charge The Division of Applied Mathematics is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive community in the department. Our goal is to ensure that the right conditions are in place for each person to achieve their full potential. Inclusion should be reflected in our department’s culture, practices, and relationships so that a diverse community can flourish. The Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Committee of the Division of Applied Mathematics is charged with assisting with the implementation and monitoring of our diversity and inclusion programs. Specifically, the committee will meet regularly to assess progress towards the DDIAP plan and reviewing the climate in the Division; address or alert the relevant departmental officers or OIED to DEI related concerns; carry out tasks assigned to the committee in the DDIAP; recommend best practices and policies regarding DEI to the chair; plan and coordinate departmental DEI events; and communicate best practices, findings, and recommendations to the APMA community. Link to Google document for public minutes Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History Association of Women in Mathematics at Brown Position Openings Contact DEI in APMA Community DEI Activities DEI Committee Newsletter Support Undergraduate Concentrations Concentration Advisors Honors Directed Reading Research and Internship Opportunities Awards AMDUG Student Groups Undergraduate Student Groups Graduate Our Advisors Prospective Masters Students Prospective PhD Students Current Students Master’s Program in Data Science Ph.D. Program in Computational Molecular Biology Graduate Student Awards Internship Opportunities Student Groups Graduate Handbook Prelim Information People Faculty Visiting Scholars Postdocs Graduate Students Staff Research Research Areas Research Institutes and Centers Research Groups Research Grants Seminars/Events PDE Seminars Probability Seminars Combinatorics Seminars Applied Mathematics Colloquium LCDS Seminars Pattern Theory Seminars SEAM Seminars Scientific Computing Seminars News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Open details for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Bookmark this Page