This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information for... Alumni Counselors Parents Visitors Close Home Why Tulane Academics Tuition & Aid Student Life Transfer International Request Info Visit Apply Meet Us For Admits Information For... custom css-js - global Group Tour Reservations Thank you for your interest in Tulane! Group tours are available both virtually and in person for groups of 8 or more. Please review the guidelines below before reserving a group tour time slot. If your preferred dates are not available and you are visiting in person, please contact us to ask about a virtual information session, after which your group may follow our self-guided group tour in person. For any questions regarding group tours, please contact Kaycee Filson at kfilson@tulane.edu. We look forward to working with you and your students! Virtual Group Tours We offer 30- to 45-minute virtual presentations for student groups including community-based organizations, high schools, summer camps, and others. Virtual group tours are offered most weekdays at 10:00 AM and 3:00 PM. Select a date on the calendar below to reserve a time for your group, and we will email the Group Leader a Zoom event link to share with students 48 hours before your reservation date. Your group will speak with an Admission Counselor before being linked to a pre-recorded campus tour given by current students. Legend: Available Unavailable / Filled Not Scheduled In-Person Group Tours In-person group tours include a 15- to 20-minute information session and a 60-minute walking tour. Group tours are not available on weekends or when the university is closed Tours are available on a case-by-case basis during February, March, and April due to ongoing campus events Group tours times are 10:00 AM and 3:00 PM. These times rarely change because we have other tours throughout the day. If you wish to visit outside of that time frame, there is no guarantee that we will be able to accommodate you. Due to limited tour guide availability, a student-led tour cannot be guaranteed but will be provided whenever possible. If no tour guide is available, your group will receive materials in order to explore campus through a self-guided tour. We can only accommodate groups of 8-50 people (including students and chaperones) at this time. Due to high demand, we prioritize groups of high school students. If your students are younger than the 9th grade, please contact Kaycee Filson. Preparing for your in-person group tour Campus tours include a substantial amount of walking. We encourage each guest to dress appropriately (comfortable clothing and shoes) with weather in mind (walking tours will continue despite rain), and each guest is expected to bring any weather gear they deem necessary—umbrellas, jackets, hats, etc. Campus dining options LBC Food Court: building #29 on campus map, 504.865.5288 The Commons: contact Jackie Rouege, jrouege@tulane.edu. Want to meet with another department? Please visit their specific website through tulane.edu. Arriving for your in-person group tour Tulane University is located in Uptown New Orleans, directly across from Audubon Park. For directions to campus, please click here. Please arrive no later than 15 minutes prior to your scheduled tour to allow time to unload students and use the restroom. If you are more than 15 minutes late, we will be unable to accommodate your group, as our student tour guides are scheduling around classes and are not available outside set times. Please note that if your group arrives later than the scheduled time, your tour and/or information session will be shortened or cancelled. The primary chaperone should check in at the front desk of the Office of Undergraduate Admission in 210 Gibson Hall no later than 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. If your group is running late, please call us at 504.865.5731. Tulane is an urban campus in a historic area, so parking is limited, particularly for larger vehicles. We suggest buses load and unload in the area in front of Audubon Park on St. Charles Avenue, directly across the street from the Admission office. As this is a loading zone, vehicles may not be left unattended. Legend: Available Unavailable / Filled Not Scheduled Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University Office of Undergraduate Admission Gibson Hall 210 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504.865.5731 undergrad.admission@tulane.edu Footer - Middle Column (contains chat code) Footer - Right Column Apply Visit Academics Merit Scholarships Major & Minors Deadlines & Forms Tuition & Aid Meet Us News Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Website Feedback Email Privacy Copyright © 2021 Tulane University