This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Skip to main content True Blue Tiger Portal eCoursewareumMailmyMemphisDirectories VisitApplyGiveContact Campus Tours We’re so glad you’re interested in the University of Memphis and can’t wait to have you on our main campus in Memphis, Tennessee! Student-led tours are held Monday through Friday at 9:30 am and 1:30 pm (with the exception of University closings). The tour consists of an information session led by an admissions representative followed by a 60-minute walking tour led by a student tour guide. Tours are conducted rain or shine so please dress appropriately. Reservations are required. Want to attend a Campus Visit Open House? We offer individualized open houses with campus departments on certain days! If you want to meet with a specific department, be sure to choose the day when those open houses are available. Campus visit open house times for this summer are listed below: Mondays College of Engineering at 11:15am Tuesdays College of Business at 11:15am College of Engineering at 11:15am Health Sciences at 12:30pm Wednesdays College of Engineering at 11:15am College of Education at 11:15am Housing at 12:30pm Thursdays College of Engineering at 11:15am ARMY ROTC at 11:15am Fridays College of Engineering at 11:15am Legend: Available Unavailable / Filled Not Scheduled Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College eCourseware Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2022 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/3/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.