Skip to Main Content Brown University Applied Mathematics Search Menu Site Navigation Home About History Association of Women in Mathematics at Brown Position Openings Contact DEI in APMA Community DEI Activities DEI Committee Newsletter Support Undergraduate Concentrations Concentration Advisors Honors Directed Reading Research and Internship Opportunities Awards AMDUG Student Groups Undergraduate Student Groups Graduate Our Advisors Prospective Masters Students Prospective PhD Students Current Students Master’s Program in Data Science Ph.D. Program in Computational Molecular Biology Graduate Student Awards Internship Opportunities Student Groups Graduate Handbook Prelim Information People Faculty Visiting Scholars Postdocs Graduate Students Staff Research Research Areas Research Institutes and Centers Research Groups Research Grants Seminars/Events PDE Seminars Probability Seminars Combinatorics Seminars Applied Mathematics Colloquium LCDS Seminars Pattern Theory Seminars SEAM Seminars Scientific Computing Seminars News Search Applied Mathematics All News 6 Results based on your selections. Today at Brown Professor Yan Guo receives the L. Herbert Ballou University Professorship June 1, 2022 The Division of Applied Mathematics is delighted to announce that Yan Guo has been appointed an L. Herbert Ballou University Professorship. He will assume this title on July 1, 2022. Read Article Open details for Professor Yan Guo receives the L. Herbert Ballou University Professorship Research at Brown Professor Hongjie Dong receives a mid-Career Research Achievement Award May 5, 2022 Professor Hongjie Dong is a recipient of a mid-Career Research Achievement Award. Professor Dong is a leading expert in the field of partial differential equations which help to analyze the laws of physics and engineering. He has developed novel tools to analyze elliptic and parabolic partial differential equations, and applies his expertise to the theories of composite materials, fluid dynamics and kinetic theory. Read Article Open details for Professor Hongjie Dong receives a mid-Career Research Achievement Award American Mathematical Society Big Math in Little Rhody April 20, 2022 The smallest state in the country has two centers of world-class mathematics. The American Mathematical Society (AMS) and the Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics (ICERM) are both located in Providence, RI. The AMS publishes many research journals, and maintains an electronic database called MathSciNet, among many other services. ICERM's mission is to solidify the relationship between mathematics and computation. Read Article Open details for Big Math in Little Rhody Research at Brown Oanh Nguyen receives Salomon Award March 14, 2022 Professor Oanh Nguyen was honored with a Salomon Award for her research work regarding the limited distribution for the number of real roots. The goal of her research is to study fundamental problems concerning the distribution of roots of random polynomials and random functions. This is Professor Nguyen's first year as an Assistant Professor in the Division of Applied Mathematics here at Brown. Read Article Open details for Oanh Nguyen receives Salomon Award News from Brown, Science and Technology Professor Kavita Ramanan uses randomness as a powerful tool March 14, 2022 Kavita Ramanan, Professor of Applied Mathematics, uses randomness as a powerful tool to make predictions about complex systems. These systems range from statistical physics to communication networks which exist in the world around us. The tool of randomness can even help to determine the spread of infectious diseases. Ramanan states that in our world randomness shows itself as an incomplete understanding of complex systems. However, randomness can enable, even those things which might be computationally impossible, useful predictions about things that are not fully understood. Read Article Open details for Professor Kavita Ramanan uses randomness as a powerful tool National Academy of Engineering National Academy of Engineering elects Professor George Karniadakis as a new member February 10, 2022 Election to the National Academy of Engineering is among the highest distinction accorded to an engineer. George Em Karniadakis is a Charles Pitts Robinson and John Palmer Barstow Professor of Applied Mathematics and Engineering here at Brown University. To be so honored, one has to have made outstanding contributions to research and education. Professor Karniadakis was awarded this honor for his computational tools from high-accuracy algorithms to machine learning, and applications to complex flows, stochastic processes, and microfluidics. The individuals who have been elected will be formally inducted during the NAE's annual meeting on October 2, 2022. Read Article Open details for National Academy of Engineering elects Professor George Karniadakis as a new member Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About History Association of Women in Mathematics at Brown Position Openings Contact DEI in APMA Community DEI Activities DEI Committee Newsletter Support Undergraduate Concentrations Concentration Advisors Honors Directed Reading Research and Internship Opportunities Awards AMDUG Student Groups Undergraduate Student Groups Graduate Our Advisors Prospective Masters Students Prospective PhD Students Current Students Master’s Program in Data Science Ph.D. Program in Computational Molecular Biology Graduate Student Awards Internship Opportunities Student Groups Graduate Handbook Prelim Information People Faculty Visiting Scholars Postdocs Graduate Students Staff Research Research Areas Research Institutes and Centers Research Groups Research Grants Seminars/Events PDE Seminars Probability Seminars Combinatorics Seminars Applied Mathematics Colloquium LCDS Seminars Pattern Theory Seminars SEAM Seminars Scientific Computing Seminars News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search All News Open details for All News Bookmark this Page