Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Donate Department of Applied Physics Home People Faculty Primary Secondary Appointments Adjunct Emeriti Research Scientists Postdoc Associates Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Business Administration In Memoriam In Memoriam: Richard K. Chang In Memoriam: Tso-Ping Ma In Memoriam: Mark A. Reed Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Admissions Forms & Guides Research Optical Physics & Devices Physics of Novel Materials Quantum Information & Device Physics News Opportunities Yale Job Opportunities External Job Opportunities Events Upcoming Events SSO Seminars Special SSO Seminar Special Events YQI Events Past Events 2022 Applied Physics Graduate Student Open House Subscribe Links Yale Resources Contact Us Yale Applied Physics - Apparel Diversity Physics of Novel Materials Research is conducted by several Applied Physics faculty, in collaboration with faculty from other SEAS and Yale departments. Optical Physics & Devices A planar realization of a random laser that is pumped with incoherent light from the top and emits coherent light in random directions. Quantum Information & Devices Systems that employ quantum effects to process information or detect electromagnetic radiation at the ultimate physical limits. Welcome Welcome to Applied Physics at Yale The Department of Applied Physics prepares students for academic and industrial careers at the forefront of science and technology. Teaching and research are focused on fundamental issues in condensed matter and optical physics and on the practical application of these concepts and techniques to technology. This balance between fundamental science and application makes our program highly interdisciplinary, having strong collaborations with Physics and Chemistry, as well as Electrical, Mechanical, Chemical, and Biomedical Engineering. Explore the exciting opportunities in the Department of Applied Physics from this short video. Recent News Congratulations to the Yale SEAS Class of 2022! Members of the Yale School of Engineering & Applied Science community celebrated the awarding of 231 undergraduate Engineering degrees Monday. Degrees in Applied Physics were conferred upon 2 members of the Class of 2022; in Biomedical Engineering, 25 degrees; in Chemical Engineering, 16 degrees; in Computer Science, 143 degrees; in Electrical Engineering, 6 degrees; in Environmental Engineering, 15 degrees; and in Mechanical Engineering, 24 degrees. Read full article on the Read more Here at Yale: Sounds from another realm By Andrea Thompson Peed Under an early evening dusk, made darker by rain clouds overhead, shades of red, blue, and rose flowed across the white façade of 17 Hillhouse Avenue as an electronic landscape of sounds pulsed from speakers. Owen Miller Receives 2022 Graduate Mentor Award Congratulations to Owen Miller, Assistant Professor of Applied Physics for receiving the 2022 Graduate Mentor Award from the Yale Graduate School. Eeach year, the Graduate Mentor Award recognizes faculty members who are exceptional in fostering the intellectual, professional, and personal development of their students. It is the University’s principal award for superb teaching, advising, and mentoring of graduate students. The selection committee, comprised of previou Read more “CALIBRATING RADIO TELESCOPES WITH DRONES”, PRESENTATION BY ANNIE POLISH ’21 AND MAILE HARRIS ‘22 Two undergraduate students, Annie Polish ’21 and Maile Harris ’22, were recently invited guests to Prof. Dan Prober’s course to present their joint research work at Yale on “Calibrating radio telescopes with drones.” Both Annie & Maile have worked in the lab of Prof. Laura Newburgh, Department of Physics. They were invited guests to Prof. Dan Prober’s course for first year students, “Science of Modern Technology and Public Policy”. Their research was to characterize the receiving pattern of some of the largest and most complex radio telescopes using drones. Read more ‘Frustrated’ nanomagnets order themselves through disorder" Extremely small arrays of magnets with strange and unusual properties can order themselves by increasing entropy, or the tendency of physical systems to disorder, a behavior that appears to contradict standard thermodynamics—but doesn’t. “Paradoxically, the system orders because it wants to be more disordered,” said Cristiano Nisoli, a physicist at Los Alamos and coauthor of a paper about the research published today in Nature Physics. “Our research demonstrates entropy-driven order in a structured system of magnet Read more Read More Yale Applied Physics Graduate Studies Program If you are interested in one of the following research areas, the Yale Applied Physics Department is the place for you: Materials Physics (Ahn, He, Ismail-Beigi, Ozolins, Schiffer) Optical Physics (Cao, Miller, Mochrie, Rakich, Stone) Quantum Information Physics (Devoret, Prober, Puri, Rakich, Read, Schoelkopf, Stone) Graduate student support and requirements include: Full fellowship support for first year Two semesters of special investigations research during first year Two semesters as teaching fellow after first year Dissertation Area Exam in lieu of Qualifying Exam Click here to apply. For more information, click on the image. Yale Applied Physics Undergraduate Major The Yale Applied Physics major is an intensive physics major offering a unique combination of depth and flexibility: The student chooses an area of science in which they have a special interest. A faculty advisor is selected from Applied Physics, Physics, Engineering, the Medical School, or other departments who will supervise the research. Three elective courses are chosen that are related to the research. The student thus graduates with a solid background in their area of interest, well prepared for graduate school, industry, etc. Click here for more information. Click on the image below for the Applied Physics Undergraduate program brochure. Upcoming Events No events to display. Yale COVID-19 Information Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved