This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. University of Louisville Skip to Main Content About General information about the University of Louisville About UofL About UofL A Brief History Mission Statement Accreditations School Profile The Thinker Statue Public Accountability Consumer Information Jobs Privacy Statement Administration President & Boards Provost Offices Organizational Chart Community Engagement Diversity About the City Living in Louisville Quality of Life Arts, Entertainment & Recreation Campus Maps University of Louisville 2301 S. 3rd St.LouisvilleKY40208 (800) 334-UofL Map This Academics Information about academics at UofL Academics Majors & Programs Courses Offered Academic Catalogs General Ed. Requirements Schools & Departments Honors Program Study Abroad Advising, Undergraduate Delphi Center Provost Enrollment Management Resources Commuter Student Services Disability Resource Center Libraries Gheens Science Hall & Rauch Planetarium Research Academic Support Testing Services Writing Center REACH Find Your Fit Calendars Academic calendars Events calendar Bad weather class schedule Final exam schedule Holidays Athletics Information about all athletic teams at UofL Athletics Sports Schedules Tickets Facilities Maps & Directions Athletics Department Men's Sports Baseball Basketball Cross Country Football Golf Soccer Swimming & Diving Tennis Track & Field Women's Sports Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Golf Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Swimming & Diving Tennis Track & Field Volleyball Traditions Alma Mater Songs Hall of Fame Past Champions All-Americans Visitor's Guide Athletic Fund Research Research-related information at UofL Research Research & Innovation Offices and Staff Core Laboratory Facilities Translational Research Policies & Procedures Research Handbook Contact the Office of Research Programs & Centers CPM - Predictive Medicine Clinical Trials CTSI EVPRI Centers & Institutes Human Subjects Protection Research Integrity Program Bucks for Brains Research!Louisville More Information For Students Industry Engagement Technology Transfer Core Laboratory Facilities Connect Join UofL in conversation online Social Media Social Directory Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Foursquare LinkedIn UofL Blog iTunesU RSS Feeds UofL Today UofL Blog Athletics Web Cams McAlister's Deli Einstein's SAC Level 1 SAC Level 2 Calendars Academic Student events Health Sciences events Faculty & staff Alumni events Athletic schedules Holiday schedule Bad weather class schedule Admission Everything related to joining the UofL family Admission Undergraduate Graduate International Students Transfer Students Online Learning Dentistry Law MBA Medicine Financial Info Tuition & other fees Scholarships & aid Financial Aid Payment options Parking fees Housing & Student Life Residence Halls Housing Application University of Louisville Properties Living Learning Communities Residence Hall Rates Student Life Clubs and organizations Visit Campus Visit for high school students Visit for transfer & adult students Group visit Special visits Visit FAQs Directions Academics Information about academics & cost Academics Schools & departments Majors & programs Honors Program Study Abroad Courses offered Registrar Advising (Undergrad) Reference General Ed. Requirements Handbook Schedule of Classes Academic Catalogs School of Medicine Catalog School of Dentistry Catalog School of Law Catalog Academic calendar Financial Tuition & Other Fees Financial Aid Scholarships Work Study Payment Options Housing Parking Fees Employee Resources Helpful information for UofL employees Places Computing Centers Dining Services Bookstore University Club Delphi Center Post Office Services Parking Police Copies Software Print & Web Design Emergency Alerts Physical Plant services Online Email Blackboard ULink PeopleSoft IT Help Desk Accounts & Passwords Calendars People Finder Human Resources HR-related information for faculty & staff Human Resources HR main page Jobs Payroll Policies Professional development New employees Employee relations Get Healthy Now Benefits Insurance Vacation & sick leave Flexible Spending Retirement program Other benefits Contact Phone: (502) 852-6258 Fax: (502) 852-5665 Academics Academically-centered information for faculty & staff Academic Information Schools & departments Majors & programs Commencement General Education Requirements Administration President Provost Enrollment Management IT Ombuds Staff Senate Faculty Senate Useful documents Redbook Part-time faculty handbook Calendars News Sources of news relevant to faculty & staff News & Information UofLNews Louisville Cardinal newspaper Athletics News Calendars Alumni Association Stay involved with your UofL family Chapters & Councils Alumni Chapters Alumni Councils Upcoming Events SOAR Alumni Central Benefits & services UofL Loyalty Cards Alumni Staff Life & Career Professional Development Career Center Online Learning Close University of Louisville Take Flight Application Thank you so much for your interest in the University of Louisville! The following questions will help us determine what type of student you are and customize application questions for you. Please read all questions carefully. If you have any questions please reach out to us at admitme@louisville.edu. We are here to help. Loading... Are you currently located in the European Union (EU) or a citizen of any of the EU Countries (Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden)?* Are you currently located in the European Union (EU) or a citizen of any of the EU Countries (Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden)?* Yes No *The University of Louisville may be treated as a Data Controller (as defined by the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Article 12) for individuals who are citizens of the EU or are located in the EU. UofL wishes to provide you with the following information: (1) All personal data you provide (or have provided to UofL) are provided in order for UofL to continue its processing of your application for admission, enrollment related activities and later your role as a student at UofL (e.g. determining your eligibility for scholarships, preparing advising reports, making class rosters for professors, etc.). UofL may provide the information to third parties in the regular course of business who are providing services for UofL (e.g. a credit card company or financial institution for payment of deposits, tuitions or other fees or a software/application vendor who may be processing your personal data or performing services for UofL which use your personal data). Both UofL and these third parties will take appropriate steps to protect your personal data. For additional details see UofL’s Privacy Statement at https://louisville.edu/privacy-statement. (2) Your personal data will be processed for 1. UofL purposes associated with your role as an applicant or student, 2. the performance of any contractual obligations of UofL associated with the processing and providing services to you as an applicant or student and 3. meeting UofL’s internal and external reporting requirements. (3) Submittal and processing of your personal data is necessary in order to fulfill/achieve these purposes. (4) A refusal to supply this information could make it impossible for UofL to carry out the necessary activities as well as any obligations required by law. (5) Your personal data may be stored and/or used from now until 5 years after your role as a student at UofL has ended. (6) You can withdraw your consent, if granted below, at any time, but this will not affect the processing of your personal data based on your consent before withdrawal (and such withdrawal could impact our ability to continue processing your data as an applicant or student) (7) You have legal rights and remedies regarding any breach of your personal information. Having read the above notice, I:* *The University of Louisville may be treated as a Data Controller (as defined by the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Article 12) for individuals who are citizens of the EU or are located in the EU. UofL wishes to provide you with the following information: (1) All personal data you provide (or have provided to UofL) are provided in order for UofL to continue its processing of your application for admission, enrollment related activities and later your role as a student at UofL (e.g. determining your eligibility for scholarships, preparing advising reports, making class rosters for professors, etc.). UofL may provide the information to third parties in the regular course of business who are providing services for UofL (e.g. a credit card company or financial institution for payment of deposits, tuitions or other fees or a software/application vendor who may be processing your personal data or performing services for UofL which use your personal data). Both UofL and these third parties will take appropriate steps to protect your personal data. For additional details see UofL’s Privacy Statement at https://louisville.edu/privacy-statement. (2) Your personal data will be processed for 1. UofL purposes associated with your role as an applicant or student, 2. the performance of any contractual obligations of UofL associated with the processing and providing services to you as an applicant or student and 3. meeting UofL’s internal and external reporting requirements. (3) Submittal and processing of your personal data is necessary in order to fulfill/achieve these purposes. (4) A refusal to supply this information could make it impossible for UofL to carry out the necessary activities as well as any obligations required by law. (5) Your personal data may be stored and/or used from now until 5 years after your role as a student at UofL has ended. (6) You can withdraw your consent, if granted below, at any time, but this will not affect the processing of your personal data based on your consent before withdrawal (and such withdrawal could impact our ability to continue processing your data as an applicant or student) (7) You have legal rights and remedies regarding any breach of your personal information. Having read the above notice, I:* I give my consent for the use of my personal data (including any sensitive data as defined in the GDPR) for the purposes outlined in this notice. I do NOT give my consent for the use of my personal data (including any sensitive data as defined in the GDPR) for the purposes outlined in this notice. Account Information Set Pin (hidden) Set Pin (hidden) Yes No Applicant unique email address*: We recommend using your personal email. This email is used to access the Application Gateway and to receive status updates on your application. First Name (Legal Name)* Middle Name Last Name (Legal Name)* Would you like to share a different first name that you go by?* Note: UofL uses preferred name in communications to you via text, email and in print mailed to your address. We also use it when communicating with parents/guardians. Once enrolled, faculty receive class rosters with preferred names. If you are not comfortable having some people know this first name, you do not need to share it at this time. Would you like to share a different first name that you go by?* Note: UofL uses preferred name in communications to you via text, email and in print mailed to your address. We also use it when communicating with parents/guardians. Once enrolled, faculty receive class rosters with preferred names. If you are not comfortable having some people know this first name, you do not need to share it at this time. Yes No Your preferred first name (other than your legal first name). Please list only one preferred first name: Are there any other last names that your official documents, such as test scores or transcripts, might be listed under besides your legal last name given above (e.g. maiden names, birth names prior to adoption, etc.)? Are there any other last names that your official documents, such as test scores or transcripts, might be listed under besides your legal last name given above (e.g. maiden names, birth names prior to adoption, etc.)? Yes No List any other last names by which your records might be under (other than your actual last name) separated by commas?* Birthdate* Birthdate* JanuaryFebruaryMarchAprilMayJuneJulyAugustSeptemberOctoberNovemberDecember12345678910111213141516171819202122232425262728293031202220212020201920182017201620152014201320122011201020092008200720062005200420032002200120001999199819971996199519941993199219911990198919881987198619851984198319821981198019791978197719761975197419731972197119701969196819671966196519641963196219611960195919581957195619551954195319521951195019491948194719461945194419431942194119401939193819371936193519341933193219311930192919281927192619251924192319221921192019191918191719161915191419131912191119101909190819071906190519041903190219011900 Please enter your mobile phone number Please enter your home phone number if different than above Would you like to receive text messages about your application, deadlines and other important admission information?* Would you like to receive text messages about your application, deadlines and other important admission information?* Yes No Your Application Type We need to ask a few questions to determine which type of application you need. Please read the questions and responses carefully. Select the option which best applies to you. We can then personalize your application questions: We need to ask a few questions to determine which type of application you need. Please read the questions and responses carefully. Select the option which best applies to you. We can then personalize your application questions: Dual Credit Student: You want to take college classes while you are still in high school First Time in College after High School Student: You want to start college after graduating high school, even if you have taken college courses while in high school (at UofL or any other college/university) Transfer Student: You are transferring to UofL from another college/university and you plan to earn an undergraduate degree (either your first undergraduate degree, or a second bachelor's degree) Returning Student: You are returning to UofL, you have not attended elsewhere, and you plan to complete an undergraduate degree (either your first undergraduate degree, or a second bachelor's degree) Visiting Student: You are applying to UofL to take courses as a non-degree seeking student (may include some certificates), and you have not yet earned an undergraduate degree. This includes application to our Continuing Studies program Post-baccalaureate Student: You want to take undergraduate courses and you have completed your undergraduate degree. This can be for many reasons, but usually to pick up some courses to qualify or prepare you for a graduate program, or to complete a certificate NOTE: You are applying to take classes as a dual credit student while you are still in high school. If this is NOT what you intend, please change your answer to the previous question. Again, if you meant to apply to be a college freshman, please answer First Time in College to the previous question. NOTE: You are applying to take classes as a dual credit student while you are still in high school. If this is NOT what you intend, please change your answer to the previous question. Again, if you meant to apply to be a college freshman, please answer First Time in College to the previous question. I confirm, I will be in high school while taking college classes. I will be a dual credit student. You are confirming that you will be a dual credit student while taking classes. That means you will still be in high school and taking UofL classes at the same time. If this is NOT the case, and you will graduate before you take classes at UofL (in other words - you want to be a college freshman), then you need to answer the question above as something other than Dual Credit student. Are you applying to an Online Program?* Are you applying to an Online Program?* Yes No You have selected to choose an entirely online course of study. Students who select online programs generally do all of their coursework online, and not all majors are available online. Please review cost comparisons. If you intend to be an on-campus as a student who wants the opportunity to take some online courses, please select 'no' to the question above. Even as an on-campus major you will still be able to take some courses online if they are offered for your program of study. Are you applying to a Certificate Program? (this does NOT include Career and Technical Education programs)* Are you applying to a Certificate Program? (this does NOT include Career and Technical Education programs)* Yes No You indicated that you are seeking an undergraduate degree and that you are seeking a certificate. While you can do both of those things, you would need separate applications. For this application you much choose either a bachelor's degree or a certificate. Additionally, First Time in College students and Transfer or Returning students would be seeking bachelor's degrees. Visitors or Post baccalaureates could be seeking certificates. If you want to complete a certificate, change your answer above to Visiting Student. If you want to earn a bachelor's degree, answer no to the certificate question. Do you have a bachelor's degree already?* Do you have a bachelor's degree already?* Yes No NOTE: You indicated above you are a Visiting Student. A visiting student is someone who has NOT completed a four-year college degree. Please either change your applicant type above to post-baccalaureate, or your answer to having completed a bachelor's degree. NOTE: You indicated above you are a Post-Baccalaureate Student. A post-bac is someone who has completed a four-year college degree. Please either change your student type above, or your answer to having completed a bachelor's degree. Have you ever attended UofL?* Have you ever attended UofL?* No, I've never attended UofL Yes, and I've also attended other college(s) Yes, and I've never attended another college Yes, but only as a visiting (non-degree seeking) student Yes, while I was a high school student Note: If it has been less than two years since your enrollment at UofL, please do not submit this form, but complete the request-to-re-enroll form instead. If it has been two years or more since your enrollment, please continue. What was your classification level when you last attended college?* What was your classification level when you last attended college?* Freshman (0-29 semester hours) Sophomore (30-59 semester hours) Junior (60-89 semester hours) Senior (90+ semester hours) What type of non-degree-seeking student best describes you?* Post-baccalaureate: Someone who has completed an undergraduate degree and is taking undergraduate courses before beginning graduate work or completing a certificate. College Visitor or Senior Citizen Student: Someone who is currently enrolled at another institution and has been given permission to take classes at UofL OR someone over the age of 65 interested in taking a course for personal improvement, OR a new high school graduate interested in taking a summer course BEFORE their freshman year at some college/university other than UofL OR someone who has not completed a four-year college degree who wants to complete a certificate. Continuing Studies student: Continuing Studies is a non-degree status that allows you to take up to 24 credits. Credits may be transferred to an academic program at UofL if you are admitted to a degree program. You must be at least 22 and may only enroll in a maximum of six to eight hours each semester. Occupational-Based Teacher Certification (CTE) Program as part of New Teacher Institute requirements: The CTE Program is occupation-based career and technical education for teacher certification. This is only for work you will do pre- or post- bacclaureate for initial teacher certification allowing you to earn up to 12 college credits as part of the New Teacher Institute program requirements. What type of non-degree-seeking student best describes you?* Post-baccalaureate: Someone who has completed an undergraduate degree and is taking undergraduate courses before beginning graduate work or completing a certificate. College Visitor or Senior Citizen Student: Someone who is currently enrolled at another institution and has been given permission to take classes at UofL OR someone over the age of 65 interested in taking a course for personal improvement, OR a new high school graduate interested in taking a summer course BEFORE their freshman year at some college/university other than UofL OR someone who has not completed a four-year college degree who wants to complete a certificate. Continuing Studies student: Continuing Studies is a non-degree status that allows you to take up to 24 credits. Credits may be transferred to an academic program at UofL if you are admitted to a degree program. You must be at least 22 and may only enroll in a maximum of six to eight hours each semester. Occupational-Based Teacher Certification (CTE) Program as part of New Teacher Institute requirements: The CTE Program is occupation-based career and technical education for teacher certification. This is only for work you will do pre- or post- bacclaureate for initial teacher certification allowing you to earn up to 12 college credits as part of the New Teacher Institute program requirements. Post-baccalaureate College Visitor or Senior Student Continuing Studies CTE Program Previously, you indicated that you were wanting to earn a Certificate. To do that, please choose College Visitor above. If you only want to take a course or two, please change your answer to the question above asking if you are applying to a Certificate program to No. Have you ever taken undergraduate classes at UofL? Note, College Visitors must pay the $25 application fee for each term of application. (Fee waivers do apply.)* Have you ever taken undergraduate classes at UofL? Note, College Visitors must pay the $25 application fee for each term of application. (Fee waivers do apply.)* Yes No Did you receive your undergraduate degree from UofL?* Did you receive your undergraduate degree from UofL?* Yes No Are you an existing Career and Technical Educator currently teaching in Kentucky and seeking to pursue a change in rank? Are you an existing Career and Technical Educator currently teaching in Kentucky and seeking to pursue a change in rank? Yes No Have you been admitted to the New Teacher Institute program through the Kentucky Department of Education Office of Career and Technical Education? Have you been admitted to the New Teacher Institute program through the Kentucky Department of Education Office of Career and Technical Education? Yes No Thank you for your interest in the University of Louisville and the College of Education and Human Development. To be eligible to apply for Career and Technical Education certification you must be a Career and Technical educator currently teaching in Kentucky, and be admitted to or a graduate of the KDE New Teacher Institute program. Please see the link above for application requirements. If you have additional questions regarding the CTE program, please contact Jodi Adams at 502-852-4727 or jodi.adams@louisville.edu. For additional questions about your application, contact Susan Hildebrand at 502-852-3208 or s.hildebrand@louisville.edu.Please do not submit this form without either changing your application type above, or the type of non-degree seeking student that you are. Submitting the form without making these changes will result in your application not being processed properly. Have you received a Provisional Certification from the Kentucky Education Professional Standards Board?* Have you received a Provisional Certification from the Kentucky Education Professional Standards Board?* Yes No Have you filed your FAFSA and sent results to UofL?* Have you filed your FAFSA and sent results to UofL?* Yes No Have you read and do you agree to abide by the terms set forth in the Statement of Student Financial Responsibility?* Have you read and do you agree to abide by the terms set forth in the Statement of Student Financial Responsibility?* Yes No Thank you for your interest in the University of Louisville and the College of Education and Human Development. Students in career and technical education certification must meet several requirements prior to admission into the program. If you have additional questions regarding your application, please contact Jodi Adams at 502-852-4727 or jodi.adams@louisville.edu. CTE missing requirements (hidden) CTE missing requirements (hidden) Yes No CTE Program Applicant (hidden) CTE Program Applicant (hidden) Yes No Submission of this form grants you access to your Application Account, and takes you to an application designed just for you. In minutes of submitting this form, you will receive an email with log in instructions to your account. If you have previously applied to UofL, please be sure you have used the same email, name and birthdate. If you opt in for text messages you will also receive a text with login information. By submitting this form, I understand that my application is not complete. I will log in to the Application Account to access and complete my Take Flight Application to the University of Louisville.* By submitting this form, I understand that my application is not complete. I will log in to the Application Account to access and complete my Take Flight Application to the University of Louisville.* Yes CTE Program Applicant-no (hidden) CTE Program Applicant-no (hidden) Yes No Set Round Transfer-Readmit (hidden) Dual Credit ApplicationEducation ApplicationFreshman ApplicationNon Degree ApplicationTransfer ApplicationUgrd Application20-21 Ugrd ApplicationDual Credit Application 20-21Freshman Application 20-21Grad ApplicationNon Degree Application 20-21Transfer Application 20-212019-20 Ugrd ApplicationOld Ugrd Application Set Round Dual Credit (hidden) Dual Credit ApplicationEducation ApplicationFreshman ApplicationNon Degree ApplicationTransfer ApplicationUgrd Application20-21 Ugrd ApplicationDual Credit Application 20-21Freshman Application 20-21Grad ApplicationNon Degree Application 20-21Transfer Application 20-212019-20 Ugrd ApplicationOld Ugrd Application Set RoundFreshman (hidden) Dual Credit ApplicationEducation ApplicationFreshman ApplicationNon Degree ApplicationTransfer ApplicationUgrd Application20-21 Ugrd ApplicationDual Credit Application 20-21Freshman Application 20-21Grad ApplicationNon Degree Application 20-21Transfer Application 20-212019-20 Ugrd ApplicationOld Ugrd Application Set Round Non-Degree (hidden) Dual Credit ApplicationEducation ApplicationFreshman ApplicationNon Degree ApplicationTransfer ApplicationUgrd Application20-21 Ugrd ApplicationDual Credit Application 20-21Freshman Application 20-21Grad ApplicationNon Degree Application 20-21Transfer Application 20-212019-20 Ugrd ApplicationOld Ugrd Application *required Submit Building MapParking MapGoogle MapVirtual Tour Belknap Campus Address Louisville, KY 40292tel (800) 334-UofL (8635) tel (502) 852-5555 twitterfacebookyoutubeinstagramlinkedinGoogle Plus HSC Campus (Downtown) Louisville, KY 40292 ShelbyHurst Campus Address Louisville, KY 40222 The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award associate, bachelor, master, specialist, doctoral, and first-professional degrees (D.M.D., J.D., M.D.). More information. University of Louisville Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Statement Contact Apply Jobs Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Statement