This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Skip to main content Search form Search Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Global Health Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy and Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Areas Global Health Centers Programs Grants and Awards People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life and Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services Request more information Master of Public Health Certificate Program Core CurriculumSearch WELCOME TO COLUMBIA PUBLIC HEALTH! Begin by reviewing our session types below. To register, select a date using the calendars below. We look forward to meeting you! Feel free to reach out to our team if you have any questions. THE OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS AND FINANCIAL AID WILL BE WORKING REMOTELY. In accordance with the university's COVID19 policy, our team continues to work remotely and remains operational responding to emails and inquires. Columbia Public Health is still following strict gateway testing and density maximums. Therefore, we are unable to offer prospective students a formal opportunity to visit campus. Those interested are welcome to visit our neighborhood to get a sense of the campus. To stay up to date on Columbia Public Health, please click here. PLEASE NOTE ALL EVENTS TAKE PLACE IN EASTERN TIME. 1:1 Admissions Discussion This 20-minute admission discussion offers students the opportunity to engage with an admissions representative one on one. To make best use of our scheduled time together, we strongly recommend students prepare questions ahead of time. Legend: Available Unavailable / Filled Not Scheduled 1:1 Financial Aid Discussion This 20-minute discussion offers students the opportunity to engage with a Financial Aid Officer one on one. Financial Aid discussions will include: Scholarship Opportunities Available Funding Budgeting Legend: Available Unavailable / Filled Not Scheduled CONNECT WITH US Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Global Health Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy and Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Areas Global Health Centers Programs Grants and Awards People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life and Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services Request more information 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy CUIMC © Columbia University Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers ShareThis Copy and Paste