Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Agricultural Sciences » Applied Economics Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Seminars Applied Economics Seminar Series Applied Economics Working Group Sessions AEC Pedagogy Seminar Series Calendar of Events Make a Gift Undergraduate Majors and Minors Agricultural and Food Business Management Major Environmental Economics and Policy Major Agricultural and Food Business Management Minor Environmental Economics and Policy Minor Environmental Law and Policy Minor Transfer Students Ecampus Experiential Learning Internships Course-Based Undergraduate Research International Experiences Quiz Bowl FAQ Careers Weekly Student Info Graduate Graduate Programs Doctorate Degree (PhD) Master's Degree (MS/MA) Accelerated Master's What is the AMP Who Should Apply Curriculum at a Glance Costs and Funding / How to Apply FAQ Minor Requirements Graduate Handbook For Prospective Students Admissions Financial Support Frequently Asked Questions Living in Oregon Contact Us Job Market Candidates Past Placements Student Publications Current Students Research & Extension Recent Research Highlights Outreach and Extension AEELab People Faculty Graduate Faculty Economists in Other OSU Units Professional Faculty & Staff Alumni Employee Resources Departmental Help and Support Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Seminars Applied Economics Seminar Series Applied Economics Working Group Sessions AEC Pedagogy Seminar Series Calendar of Events Make a Gift Undergraduate Majors and Minors Agricultural and Food Business Management Major Environmental Economics and Policy Major Agricultural and Food Business Management Minor Environmental Economics and Policy Minor Environmental Law and Policy Minor Transfer Students Ecampus Experiential Learning Internships Course-Based Undergraduate Research International Experiences Quiz Bowl FAQ Careers Weekly Student Info Graduate Graduate Programs Doctorate Degree (PhD) Master's Degree (MS/MA) Accelerated Master's What is the AMP Who Should Apply Curriculum at a Glance Costs and Funding / How to Apply FAQ Minor Requirements Graduate Handbook For Prospective Students Admissions Financial Support Frequently Asked Questions Living in Oregon Contact Us Job Market Candidates Past Placements Student Publications Current Students Research & Extension Recent Research Highlights Outreach and Extension AEELab People Faculty Graduate Faculty Economists in Other OSU Units Professional Faculty & Staff Alumni Employee Resources Departmental Help and Support Environmental Economics and Policy Major eep.png Most environmental and natural resource challenges are caused by human activity and government policy. Majoring in Environmental Economics and Policy allows you to study environmental sciences through the lens of human behavior and government policy, and to become an expert at identifying solutions to our current problems. You will learn that while policy and human behavior lie at the heart of many challenges, they are also our best hope for creating a better future. With a degree in Environmental Economics and Policy, you will be an expert at identifying the role that humans play in environmental quality, as well as in developing the solutions. Our approach is to combine data with rigorous theory. With this degree, you will have a set of skills in theory, quantitative methods, and communication that are highly sought by employers in government, non-profits, and private industry. An Environmental Economics and Policy degree also provides an excellent foundation on which to apply graduate school. In short, this degree (offered both on campus and online) is a springboard to a variety of rewarding careers! Core Requirements You must take and pass (with a C- or higher) a core group of classes that will provide you with the economics, policy, and law background you need for success. You also get to choose at least 5 electives from a list that will allow you to study with a broad focus or narrow in on your area of interest. You can see a full list of these classes on the Checksheet below. We also offer some guidance on sequences of courses, or playlists, which give you suggestions on sets of courses that might lead you down different future paths. As part of either of our degrees, you must complete an experiential learning offering – either an academic research project or an internship. Playlists The following lists of courses provide suggestions for ways in which you might combine the offerings in EEP. They are NOT required sequences, but rather intended to help you choose courses depending upon your career interests. They won’t change the name of your major on your degree. Click on the links below to see how you might schedule your courses to graduate in 4 years with a focus on quantitative analysis, environmental economics and policy, or policy and law. General (Available on-campus and online!) Quantitative Analysis Environmental Economics & Policy Policy & Law Learn More Contact Tjodie Richardson, our EEP Advisor Checksheet for EEP EEP Year-by-Year Info Sheet Classes and Curriculum Commitment to Diversity Frequently Asked Questions Learning Outcomes Contact Info College of Agricultural Sciences Oregon State University Corvallis, Oregon 97331 For questions or feedback about our college or website, please Contact Us. Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Instagram Contact Us Applied Economics 213 Ballard Extension Hall Corvallis, OR 97331 Send E-mail Phone: 541-737-2942 Facebook LinkedIn Youtube Instagram