This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Yale School of the Environment Admissions Academics Research Outreach Careers Alumni Giving About Welcome to the Yale School of the Environment! "Knowledge and leadership for a sustainable future." We are excited to learn about your interest in the Yale School of the Environment and invite you to participate in a variety of events and connection opportunities we have to offer! We understand the search for a graduate program can be daunting, and so we are here to provide you with the information and answers to your questions that you may seek. Yale’s School of the Environment aspires to lead the world toward a sustainable future with cutting-edge research, teaching, and public engagement on society’s evolving and urgent environmental challenges, and hope, through your participation in our events, you will get started on your academic journey as an environmental leader. We encourage you to browse our full list of events and visit opportunities below. If you have any questions, please contact our office at admissions.yse@yale.edu or 800-825-0330. We look forward to connecting with you soon! *** Throughout the academic year, students have the opportunity to connect with us for information sessions, college fairs and more! While travel has temporarily been suspended due to COVID-19, our office is ready and excited to provide you with additional online opportunities to connect with current students, faculty, and alumni. General Virtual Admissions EventsThese events allow you to learn more about the Yale School of the Environment and get a feel for the campus, connect with current students, faculty, and alumni no matter where you are in the world! Browse our upcoming virtual events below. All virtual events are hosted via Zoom. On-Campus Visit Opportunities Join our team for a two-hour visit to our campus in New Haven, CT. Your visit will begin with an information session and end with a tour of the Yale School of the Environment. Visitors must comply with posted Yale and YSE Covid-19 Policies. YSE in Your Area Browse our virtual summer opportunities below! Schedule an Appointment with AdmissionsInterested in learning more about YSE, or the admission process? You can connect with our assistant directors online by scheduling a one-on-one meeting on the appointment page. Schedule an Appointment with Financial AidInterested in learning more about financial aid and funding opportunities? You can connect with our Associate Director of Financial Aid by scheduling a one-on-one meeting on the appointment page. Virtually Explore the Campus Review our 360° campus tour or follow along as Kelly and Lori guide you through campus in our guided video tour! Explore the campus now. ADMISSIONS Why Yale? Masters Doctoral Financial Aid Admission Events Apply! ACADEMICS RESEARCH OUTREACH CAREERS ALUMNI GIVING ABOUT © 2022 Yale School of the Environment 195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06511