This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Resources for Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors News Events Request Info Apply Give About Welcome from the Dean Mission Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Research Centers & Programs Books Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Career Development Connect with Us Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Career Development Resources for Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Home About Welcome from the Dean Mission Frequently Asked Questions Historical Timeline Staff Directory Academic Calendar Faculty & Research Faculty Research Centers & Programs Books Openings Academics Degrees We Offer MSW Program Curriculum Your MSW Pathway Field Education Online MSW PhD Program Continuing Education Admissions Why Columbia? Your MSW Pathway Online MSW International Students Career Development Applying to CSSW Tuition & Financial Aid Scholarships Admitted Students Student Experience Student Life Student Support Services International Students Career Development Resources for Current Students Admitted Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Field Educators Recruiters Visitors Search __search_form__ Application Information Thank you for your interest in applying to the Columbia School of Social Work. The application for the spring and fall of 2023 admissions will launch in August. In the meantime, please refer to our deadlines below and keep these important dates in mind. Our application deadlines are below: Master's Program: Spring 2023 Final Deadline: October 15, 2022 11:59 PM EST Fall 2023 Priority Deadline: December 1, 2022 11:59 PM EST Fall 2023 Final Deadline: April 1, 2023 11:59 PM EST Doctoral Program: Fall 2023: December 15, 2022 11:59 PM EST We invite you to learn more about the MSW program at the Columbia School of Social Work. On-Campus and Virtual Information Sessions: Meet with our admissions staff and current students at an information session that covers all the details of our MSW program options and provides information regarding our curriculum, faculty, application process, student life, and more. To register for an info session or virtual event, sign up here. Schedule a One-on-One Chat: Schedule an appointment with an admissions representative. To register for an appointment, click here. CSSW Virtual Events: Visit our Off-Campus Events page, as we may be attending a virtual fair targeted to your area. Returning users:Log in to continue an application. First-time users:Create an account to start a new application. About CSSW Columbia School of Social Work has been a leader in social work education and research since 1898. It joins rigorous academic theory with real-world practice to enhance the welfare of citizens and communities in New York City, the nation and around the world. Columbia School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027-5927 T: 212-851-2400 Go to map and directions Questions? Contact us For faculty and staff: Administrative Resources Policy and Privacy Statements Current Students Alumni Academic Calendar