As of September 2021, all Ethnic & Gender (E&G) offices are open to support your student success and needs. Please check individual websites for specific, operational hours and contact info. Masks are required indoors at all times and proof of completion of Daily Wellness Survey is required to enter all E&G offices. In order to keep us all safe, we also ask that you please continue to wash your hands, maintain physical distance, and all other health measures to reduce risk. We look forward to connecting soon. × Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People Search UC Riverside Asian Pacific Student Programs Provides educational, cultural and society support for Asian Pacific students. Search Home Who We Are Who We Are Our Campus Our History Our Partners Programs Our Programs Scholarships and Internships UCR Resources Get Involved Events & Photos Alumni Alumni Giving to APSP Contact Us UCR Home A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People Asian Pacific Student Programs Breadcrumb Asian Pacific Student Programs Previous Next Welcome to Asian Pacific Student Programs We are your guides, your counselors, your peers, your mentors, your confidants and some of your most trusted friends. We care about our community’s rich and diverse Asian American, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander culture as much as you do because, above all else, we are your brothers and sisters, and a vibrant and active part of UCR’s Asian American, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander student population. This is where new friendships start. This is where lost traditions are rekindled. This is where your questions get answered. This is where we break down cultural barriers through respectful, educational dialogue. At APSP, you’re part of our family — this is your home away from home. Here for You, Always Student Affairs is here to support you throughout the campus closure. Connect Events See Events Calendar Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Asian Pacific Student Programs 244 Costo Hall Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-7272 email: apsp@ucr.edu Find Us Follow US: Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Flickr Related Links African Student Programs Asian Pacific Student Programs Chicano Student Programs LGBT Resource Center Native American Student Programs Middle Eastern Student Center Undocumented Student Programs Women's Resource Center Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel