Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Chinese (Traditional) Spanish Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Accessibility The Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University welcomes people of all abilities and is committed to facilitating a safe and engaging experience for all who visit. This page provides information for visitors who may have accessibility concerns. For accessibility-related questions, please contact our Visitor Engagement team at 617.384.5209 or arbweb@arnarb.harvard.edu Plan Your Visit The Arnold Arboretum is free and open to all daily from dawn until dusk. For general information, visit our Plan A Visit Page. Parking Accessible spaces are available at the following gates: Arborway Gate (main gate with access to the Hunnewell Building and Visitor Center), Walter Street Gate, Centre Street Gate. General parking is available along the Arborway, Bussey Street, and Walter Street. Please do not pull onto any part of the sidewalks on Bussey Street, which need to remain clear and accessible to pedestrians and wheelchairs. Driving Permits Driving permits are available for special needs drivers Monday through Friday, 12:30–2:30pm. Visitors must apply for and obtain a permit at least three days in advance of their visit. Accessible Restrooms Wheelchair-accessible restrooms are available at the Hunnewell Building at 125 Arborway, open noon–4pm, Friday through Monday. Wheelchair-accessible portable restrooms are located near the Arborway Gate and at the base of Peters Hill (on the main loop near the Peters Hill Gate). Wheelchairs Manual wheelchairs are be available, free of charge, on a first-come, first-served basis at the Visitor Center at the Hunnewell Building at 125 Arborway, open noon–4pm, Friday through Monday. The only requirement is a photo ID, which is held for the duration of the loan. Please note that during days of high visitation, including special events, wheelchair availability can be limited. Please inquire in the Visitor Center as soon as you arrive to check availability. Roadways and Trails As an outdoor institution, the conditions of our paths and trails can vary due to weather. Also, due to the Arboretum’s natural terrain, portions may be inaccessible. If you are looking for assistance in planning your visit, please contact our Visitor Engagement team at 617.384.5209 or arbweb@arnarb.harvard.edu Service Animals In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), service animals are welcome in the Arnold Arboretum landscape as well as in the Visitor Center located in the Hunnewell Building. For Visitors Who are Blind or Have Low Vision Contact our Visitor Engagement team at 617.384.5209 or arbweb@arnarb.harvard.edu to learn about seasonal tour opportunities for visitors who are blind or have low vision. For Visitors Who are Deaf or Hard of Hearing If you need would like to schedule American Sign Language interpretation for a scheduled tour, program or event, please indicate this when you register. You can also email our Visitor Engagement team at arbweb@arnbarb.harvard.edu at least three weeks prior to the program and we will do our best to schedule an interpreter. Expeditions, the Arnold Arboretum’s Mobile App Through a combination of text, images, and audio, the app helps visitors explore the Arboretum, whether they’re on the grounds or at home. The app meets standard accessibility criteria for vision- or hearing-impaired users. This includes HTML formatting that renders the app fully readable by screen readers, with transcripts for audio segments and alternative text for images. Website Accessibility Statement The Arnold Arboretum is committed to enhancing usability for all website users by upholding Harvard University’s digital accessibility standards. These standards can be accessed by clicking the link below. Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up