Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Plants Sweetbay Magnolia (Magnolia virginiana var. australis) 1275-80*A in flower. Ned Friedman Background The Arnold Arboretum’s living collections are celebrated as some of the most comprehensive and best documented of their kind. Its rich holdings include temperate ligneous plants from around the world. Many of the plants originate from collecting expeditions, others derive from horticultural experimentation, and some were existing vegetation when the Arboretum was founded in 1872. Each of these plants—over 15,000 in all—has a story to tell, and they are preserved as both scientific and horticultural specimens to enrich our understanding of biodiversity through the institution’s research, education, and outreach efforts. Sections Plant Exploration → Plant Conservation → Collection Statistics → Collections Management → Landscape and Collections Care → Greenhouse and Growing → Campaign for the Living Collections → Spontaneous Flora → Arboretum Explorer Interactive Map → Plant Search → Plant Image Search → Herbarium of the Arnold Arboretum → Plant Introductions → Plant Bios See All → 1251-83*B Map it ↗ Ulleungdo Hemlock Scientific Name Tsuga ulleungensis In 2003, a researcher collected a sample from this hemlock. Genetic analysis revealed something unusual. This tree proved to be a new species, previously unknown to science. View plant bio 11440*A Map it ↗ Japanese Stewartia Scientific Name Stewartia pseudocamellia This Japanese stewartia—and its nearby sibling—was collected in Korea in 1917. Its taxonomic status has inspired the curiosity of generations of botanists. View plant bio Pink buds of the Donald Wyman crabapples open to reveal single white flowers. ‘Donald Wyman’ Flowering Crabapple 23254*A Map it ↗ Syringa x chinensis 'Lilac Sunday' 164-96*A ‘Lilac Sunday’ Lilac 164-96*A Map it ↗ Flowers emerge before foliage in early spring. ‘Merrill’ Loebner Magnolia 367-42*B Map it ↗ Habit of ‘Prostrate Beauty’ Korean fir. ‘Prostrate Beauty’ Korean Fir 913-67*B Map it ↗ Syringa 'Purple Haze' by Kyle Port in lilac collection ‘Purple Haze’ Lilac 36-2002*A Map it ↗ Acer rubrum 'Schlesingerii' (red maple) 3256*A. ‘Schlesingeri’ Red Maple 3256*A Map it ↗ Collections See All → Lilac Collection Crabapple Collection Azalea Border Bonsai & Penjing Collection Bradley Rosaceous Collection Bussey Brook Meadow Today's Walks See All → Our self-guided walks are a great way to learn more about our trees and plants from home or as you stroll through the landscape. Forge a deeper connection with the Arnold Arboretum's collections as well as the plants you encounter in your daily life. Explore further with the Expeditions mobile app to hear stories about botany, horticulture, conservation, and Arboretum history through photos, text, and audio segments. Director's Tour Experience the Arnold Arboretum’s world-class living collections from Director Ned Friedman’s perspective. Take this tour online or while visiting the Arboretum in person. 120 mins Medium 2.5 miles Michael Dosmann Keeper's Tour Take a walk with Michael Dosmann, the Keeper of the Arboretum’s living collections. Take this tour online or while visiting the Arboretum in person. 90 mins Medium 1.5 miles Dove tree (Davidia involucrata). Explorers Garden Tour This quarter-mile tour through the Explorers Garden features stories from the Arboretum’s century and a half of collecting plants around the world. If you’re at the Arboretum, click here to take a version of this tour with Expeditions, our mobile web app. 45 mins Easy .25 miles Workmen constructing the South Street Gate area of the Arboretum photographed in 1889. A Walk Through Time, Part 1 Walk with Landscape Architect Rosetta S. Elkin and Arboretum Archivist Lisa E. Pearson. 20 mins An easy walk with several hills, accessible for mobility impaired visitors .25 miles Expeditions Unveiled See more expeditions → A NACPEC Expedition in North America Exploring the botanical diversity of Appalachia with international collaborators Learn More Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up