Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Library and Archives View of the southwest corner of the Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library. James Arnold's round pietre dure table may be seen in the center of the photograph. Its top is inlaid with slices of semiprecious stone. Lisa Pearson, 2022. Background The Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library and Archives is a specialized research collection devoted to the study of temperate woody plants. We collect works on botany, horticulture, floras, landscape studies, garden history, and dendrology. The library stewards more than 40,000 volumes in Jamaica Plain and at the Harvard Book Depository. The Visual Image Collection contains more than 80,000 photographs, including a significant historical image collection. The Archive Collection documents the Arboretum’s history and is a repository for nineteenth, twentieth, and twenty-first century horticultural and botanical collections. Sections Visit the Library → About the Collections → Request Material → Plant Exploration → Archive Collection → Visual Archives → Arboretum Publications → Ask a Question → A rare 1934 autochrome lantern slide view of Rhododendron Dell. Archives of the Arnold Arboretum. A botanical illustration of eastern white pine Pinus strobus from Andre Michaux's North American Sylva. Archives of the Arnold Arboretum. An exhibit of archival materials having to do with the Larz Anderson Bonsai Collection. We regularly mount exhibitions from our archival collections. Archives of the Arnold Arboretum. A permit issued in Yichang, Hubei Province, China in 1908 from the Ernest Henry Wilson Papers. It granted Wilson permission to carry hunting guns and cartridges. Image produced by Harvard Imaging Services. Students seated at the large table in the Reading Room examining archival materials. Classes from Harvard and other local colleges, universities, and high schools, use the Library and Archive resources. Photograph by Sheila Connor, October 23, 2007. Explore Full Gallery Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Related Stories The Arnold Arboretum from the Air History Women of the Arnold Arboretum, Part 1 History Women of the Arnold Arboretum, Part 2 History Early Indigenous Land Use History Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up