Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Educators BPS students inspect bugs they collected while exploring the Arboretum. Background Arboretum educators and volunteers provide nature and introductory plant science instruction to Boston Area school children through instruction in the landscape and in the classroom. In keeping with our educational mission, the Arnold Arboretum offers varied nature programs with a focus on plant science to preschool and elementary children and their teachers. Additionally, school groups may plan self-guided trips and take advantage of numerous education opportunities—including tours and family activities—both in the landscape and in the Hunnewell Visitor Center. Learn more about our programs using the links below. Sections Self-Guided School Trips → Field Study Experiences → Professional Development Opportunities → Education Partnerships → Virtual Learning → Arboretum Young Scientists → Students draw pictures of leaves. Educators making science real for students. Working with students during a winter field trip. Educators noticing flower parts of pussy willow catkins. Pairs of teachers discuss twig observations to discover common features between them. Explore Full Gallery Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Related Stories Experiencing Nature Hands-On, Digitally Education Arboretum shares nature learning with kids for 35 years Education Expanding opportunities for learning outside in Boston Education When the Trees Become the Teacher Education Teachers tackle ecology and climate change Education Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up