Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Guided Tours Jeff Blackwell Docent-led Guided Tours Register below for one of our guided tours with a volunteer. If no times appear on the calendar, that means all tours are fully booked. Self-guided Tours From flowers and fragrance to fruits and textures to the bare bones of winter’s deciduous plants, the Arnold Arboretum is a dynamic landscape throughout the year! Our website offers a number of great self-guided tours that you can download ahead of time or take with your phone when you visit. You can take a tour and explore on your own through our new Expeditions mobile app. Private Tours Adult Groups We are now offering in-person tours of the Arboretum on a limited basis. These tours are free and limited to 15 participants. An Arboretum docent will lead these 90-minute walking tours of the landscape, seasonal highlights, and Arboretum history. Our Visitor Engagement staff will work with you to provide a memorable experience, whether you are a group of avid gardeners seeking to gain horticultural knowledge or simply want a guided stroll through an historic landscape of remarkable beauty. Bus tours and driving permits are currently unavailable. When they are available, groups must supply their own bus, and bus size restrictions apply, including a height restriction of 11 feet. For information about these tours, please contact arbweb@arnarb.harvard.edu. If needed, please call 617.384.5209. Youth Groups Middle and High School: If your middle or high school class is studying a topic related to the Arnold Arboretum’s area of focus (horticulture, environmental studies, ecology, botany, etc.) email us. We are happy to help educators prepare for a self-guided visit, however we do not currently offer standard programs for youth in this age group for non-related classes or after-school groups, summer youth groups, or student clubs. Higher Education Groups As part of its education mission, the Arboretum provides academic tours to college and university groups studying relevant subjects. These tours are currently not being scheduled. They are free of charge and led by Arboretum staff members whenever possible. To schedule an academic tour, course instructors or academic advisers will be advised to fill out a request at least three weeks in advance. Request forms will be available on this page when tours become available. On the request form, you will describe the scope of the course or other specifics that would allow us to place you with the most appropriate staff member(s) or docent. For additional information, please call 617.384.5209 or email. Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up