Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Minimize Maximize Subscribe to the newsletter. Home Sign-up to receive Ned Friedman's Posts from the Collections by email. Subscribe No thank you. Katsuras Awaken! Share Share on Twitter Share on Facebook by William (Ned) Friedman on Apr 18, 2022 Of course, you can come to the Arnold Arboretum this week and be awestruck by the magnolias and flowering cherries currently drawing crowds. But, there are also subtle jewels to be sought out, and one of my favorites of spring is the katsura tree (Cercidiphyllum japonicum), a native of Japan and China. The key is to visit these wonderful trees on a sunny day. Like many plants, as the leaves flush from the bud, they are rich in anthocyanin pigments (a sunscreen of sorts to protect the photosynthetic apparatus from the bright sun) that create an almost blood red coloration. These leaves literally glow in the sun (upper left image, 391-2017*A). If you let your eyes wander to the edge of each immature leaf, you will discover a set of glistening droplets at the ends of the minute leaf teeth (upper left image again; lower right image, 397-2009*C). These jewel-like secretions, whose function is unknown, are only present for a brief time and then are shed. Ned Friedman While visiting katsura trees at the Arnold Arboretum (or elsewhere), keep a lookout for their apetalous unisexual flowers. Individual trees either bear pollen-producing flowers (lower right, 698-81*A, a dangling bouquet of stamens) or seed-producing flowers (upper right, 13008*A) where the only parts to emerge from the bud are the pollen-catching and eye-catching bright red stigmas. Ned Friedman (Noting that my last Post was also focused on red stigmas—of the hazels and filberts—I suspect I am a bit obsessed with early spring wind pollinated woody plants.) If you crave more Arnold Arboretum plant images, follow me on Instagram @nedfriedman. by William (Ned) Friedman on Apr 18, 2022 in Biodiversity, Botany, Director's Posts, Horticulture, Landscape, Living Collections Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up