Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Chinese (Traditional) Spanish Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Plan a Visit Docent Chris McArdle leads an Arboretum theme tour. Jeff Blackwell Visitor Info Welcome to the Arnold Arboretum. Our 281-acre landscape featuring over 15,000 accessioned plants is open daily and free for all to explore. Whether you are coming for a stroll, on the lookout for wildlife, or interested in learning the stories and science behind our plants, we value accessibility as an institution and offer something for everyone. Explore our virtual walks, guided tours, Expeditions mobile app, and digital learning resources. If you're visiting with kids, check out a variety of self-guided family activities. Not sure where to start? Our Visitor Center staff is here to help. Directions & Parking You can get to the Arboretum by subway, bus, or car. Get directions to our main entrance at Arborway Gate, Peters Hill, Weld Hill Building, or Dana Greenhouses. Free parking is available along the Arborway, Bussey Street, and Walter Street. The Arnold Arboretum also offers resources for improved accessibility. Contact Us The Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University 125 Arborway Boston, MA 02130-3500 Phone 617.524.1718 Fax 617.524.1418 Email arbweb@arnarb.harvard.edu Hours & Admissions The Arboretum landscape is free and open every day. Landscape Hours Sunrise-Sunset Visitor Center Hours noon–4pm, Friday–Monday Admission Always Free Visitor Guidelines Read about the Arboretum’s response to COVID-19. Read our visitor tips and guidelines to learn about bringing your dog, hosting events, riding your bike, and more so you can plan your best visit. Explore our interactive map and view a printable PDF map. Interactive Map Printable Map Accession Number The alpha-numeric value assigned to a plant when it is added to the living collection as a way of identifying it. Accession Date The year the plant’s accession number was assigned. Common Name The non-scientific name for the plant. Scientific Name The scientific name describes the species of an organism. The first word is the plant's scientific genus and the second is the specific epithet. This two-word binomial is sometimes followed by other taxonomic descriptors, including subspecies (denoted by "ssp."), variety (denoted by "var."), form (denoted by "f." or "forma"), and cultivar (denoted by single quotation marks). Plant Family The family to which the plant belongs. Propagation Material The first part (material code) describes the material used to create the plant. The most common codes are "SD" (seed), "EX" (existing plant), "PT" (plant), "CT" (cutting), "SC" (scion), "SG" (seedling), and "GR" (graft). The second part describes the lineage the plant is derived from. The last part describes the year of propagation. Collection Data The first part indicates provenance (place or source of origin) using a letter code ("W" = wild, "G" = garden, "Z" = indirect wild, "U" = uncertain). The second part lists the plant source. For wild-collected material, the collector, collection number, and country are given. Location The location of the plant on the landscape. Hover to Learn More 524-48*AA Cupressaceae Metasequoia glyptostroboides SD - LINEAGE 524-48 - 1948 - 1948 W - WILD ORIGIN - CHINA - CHENG, W.C. NATL. CTRL. UNIV., NANKING, CHINA Dawn Redwood Visiting with Kids Explore more family activities → wonder spots, tree of the month: seven son flower, storywalks, ← Previous → Next Wonder Spots Wonder Spots give Arboretum families an opportunity to explore the landscape through weekly investigations about the natural world. Learn about plants and animals in locations throughout the Arboretum, getting to know our grounds while discovering and observing living things in new ways. Investigate Wonder Spots Tree of the Month: Seven Son Flower The seven son flower is a year-round delight. The name “seven son flower” is a translation of the Chinese name and refers to the number of flowers in each cluster. Considered rare in the wild, this plant was not grown in the United States until 1980. The Arboretum's specimens are among the oldest. Learn More About this Plant StoryWalks StoryWalks are a wonderful way for families to read and talk about nature in the Arboretum landscape. Walk from page to page, learning about season, plans, and animals from a children's book. Learn More About StoryWalks Walks See All → Introductory Tour This half-mile Introductory Tour features stories about the Arboretum’s history, mission, and research endeavors. If you’re at the Arboretum, click here to take a version of this tour with Expeditions, our mobile web app. 40 mins Easy 0.5 miles Director's Tour Experience the Arnold Arboretum’s world-class living collections from Director Ned Friedman’s perspective. Take this tour online or while visiting the Arboretum in person. 120 mins Medium 2.5 miles Dove tree (Davidia involucrata). Explorers Garden Tour This quarter-mile tour through the Explorers Garden features stories from the Arboretum’s century and a half of collecting plants around the world. If you’re at the Arboretum, click here to take a version of this tour with Expeditions, our mobile web app. 45 mins Easy .25 miles Michael Dosmann Keeper's Tour Take a walk with Michael Dosmann, the Keeper of the Arboretum’s living collections. Take this tour online or while visiting the Arboretum in person. 90 mins Medium 1.5 miles Collections See All → Bonsai & Penjing Collection Bradley Rosaceous Collection Conifer Collection Explorers Garden Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up