Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Lilac Collection plants In mid-May, lilac hues delight visitors in the thousands. Kyle Port Background Fun Facts 1 2 3 4 5 6 Perhaps the best known lilac species is common lilac (Syringa vulgaris), represented by the hundreds of cultivars within this species. Common lilacs bear large, fragrant flower panicles composed of many small individual florets that have either a single or double form. Cultivars are classified by flower color. In the late 1800s the Lemoine nursery in France introduced many new cultivars to the world—the term “French Hybrids” is often still used in nurseries in reference to all common lilac cultivars. The lilac species Syringa oblata subsp. dilatata is notable in two seasons. It is one of the earliest blooming lilacs in the spring (before common lilacs), bearing large clusters of pretty pale pinkish lavender florets. It shines again in autumn when its foliage develops bronze to purplish tints—one of few lilacs that show fall color. The cultivar ‘Cheyenne’ has especially nice fall foliage. Most lilacs have simple, unlobed leaves with a rounded, oval, or obovate shape, but within the lilac collection you may notice a couple of exceptions. Afghan lilac (Syringa protolaciniata) and its cultivar ‘Kabul’ have simple leaves that are laciniate (deeply lobed), though the degree of laciniation can vary from leaf to leaf. Even more unique is Syringa pinnatifolia, the only lilac species with compound leaves. Dwarf Korean lilac (Syringa meyeri ‘Palibin’) is one of the smallest lilacs in the collection, growing only about 3 to 4 feet tall and wide. It is densely twiggy, fine textured, and has a neatly rounded habit. In mid to late spring dwarf Korean lilac is covered with a profusion of short flower panicles; the small florets are light lavender pink. Most lilacs grow as multi-stemmed shrubs, but several species grow as small trees with one or a few main trunks. Japanese tree lilac (Syringa reticulata) is a popular tree-form lilac, and a venerable 1876 specimen (accession 1111*A) of this species is the oldest lilac at the Arboretum. Japanese tree lilac blooms several weeks later than common lilacs and bears large terminal panicles of very small, creamy white flowers. About There are 399 lilac plants representing 177 taxa (kinds) in the Arboretum’s collection. These include 139 cultivars that have been selected for certain horticultural merits such as flower size and color. The remaining kinds represent various botanical taxa, the parents of many of today’s hybrids. Together they provide a season of color and scent that extends over five weeks each spring. The Arnold Arboretum has celebrated lilacs and the arrival of spring with an annual celebration, Lilac Sunday, since 1908. Resources: Find directions and accessibility information for this collection Read about lilac history, care, cultivars, and fragrance Read about the history of Lilac Sunday [pdf] Visit the International Lilac Society website Litteleaf Lilac (Syringa pubescens ssp. microphylla). Japanese Tree Lilac (Syringa reticulata). Syringa vulgaris 'Arch Mckean'. Syringa vulgaris 'Bridal Memories'. Syringa vulgaris 'Miss Ellen Willmott'. Syringa vulgaris 'Krasavitsa Moskvy'. Syringa vulgaris 'Mme Lemoine'. Syringa vulgaris 'President Lincoln'. Syringa vulgaris 'President Poincare'. Lilac collection in spring. Explore Full Gallery Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Featured Plants 164-96*A Map it ↗ ‘Lilac Sunday’ Lilac Scientific Name Syringa × chinensis ‘Lilac Sunday’ The Arnold Arboretum introduced a lilac called ‘Lilac Sunday’ in 1997. This garden favorite can produce clusters of flowers that are more than two feet long. View plant bio 36-2002*A Map it ↗ ‘Purple Haze’ Lilac Scientific Name Syringa ‘Purple Haze’ An alumna of Arnold Arboretum propagator Jack Alexander’s lilac breeding program, this sterile hybrid was introduced in 2005. Its abundant, pale purple flowers kiss the sky early in the lilac blooming season. View plant bio Plants in this Collection Plant ID Accession Date Recieved As Origin Source Featured Walk Explorers Garden Tour This quarter-mile tour through the Explorers Garden features stories from the Arboretum’s century and a half of collecting plants around the world. If you’re at the Arboretum, click here to take a version of this tour with Expeditions, our mobile web app. Take this walk Related Stories The Lilacs of the Arnold Arboretum: A Season of Bloom Events One out of eight plants at the Arboretum threatened with extinction Biodiversity Walkways to biodiversity Landscape August 30 tour extravaganza at the Arboretum Events Through the Seasons with Sassafras Plant Profiles Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up