Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer StoryWalks What if you knew that there was a great way to share nature and literacy with your children while getting in a wonderful walk? That’s the whole idea behind StoryWalks. At the Arnold Arboretum, we offer opportunities to enjoy the landscape, learn about nature, read together, and do a little hiking, which all contribute to family bonding. Each month we set out a seasonal story about nature by using children’s picture books with beautiful illustrations and kid-friendly language. The StoryWalks migrate weekly through locations just inside several of the most traveled gates in the Arboretum. This month, check out Flowers Are Calling by Rita Grey, illustrated by Kenard Pak at the following locations: 5/26–6/1: intersection of Peters Hill Road and Poplar Road 6/2–6/8: intersection of Valley Road and Hemlock Hill Road 6/9–6/15: intersection of Bussey Hill Road and Valley Road 6/16–6/22: intersection of Peters Hill Road and Poplar Road Our books include: Winter Dance by Marion Dane Bauer, illustrated by Richard Jones The Longest Night by Marion Dane Bauer, illustrated by Ted Lewin Over and Under the Snow by Kate Messner, illustrated by Christopher Silas Neal Raindrops Roll by April Pulley Sayre Wild Birds by Joanne Ryder, illustrated by Susan Estelle Kwas Flowers Are Calling by Rita Grey, illustrated by Kenard Pak Some Bugs by Angela DiTerlizzi, illustrated by Brendan Wenzel On Duck Pond by Jane Yolen, illustrated by Bob Marstall My Awesome Summer by Paul Meisel My Forest is Green by Darren LeBouef, illustrated by Ashley Barron Dot and Jabber and the Great Acorn Mystery by Ellen Stoll Walsh Because of an Acorn by Lola M. Schafer, illustrated by Frann Preston-Gannon Hiking Day by Anne Rockwell, illustrated by Lizzy Rockwell Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up