Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Katsura Cercidiphyllum japonicum Family Cercidiphyllaceae Genus Cercidiphyllum Accession Number The alpha-numeric value assigned to a plant when it is added to the living collection as a way of identifying it. Accession Date The year the plant’s accession number was assigned. Common Name The non-scientific name for the plant. Scientific Name The scientific name describes the species of an organism. The first word is the plant's scientific genus and the second is the specific epithet. This two-word binomial is sometimes followed by other taxonomic descriptors, including subspecies (denoted by "ssp."), variety (denoted by "var."), form (denoted by "f." or "forma"), and cultivar (denoted by single quotation marks). Plant Family The family to which the plant belongs. Propagation Material The first part (material code) describes the material used to create the plant. The most common codes are "SD" (seed), "EX" (existing plant), "PT" (plant), "CT" (cutting), "SC" (scion), "SG" (seedling), and "GR" (graft). The second part describes the lineage the plant is derived from. The last part describes the year of propagation. Collection Data The first part indicates provenance (place or source of origin) using a letter code ("W" = wild, "G" = garden, "Z" = indirect wild, "U" = uncertain). The second part lists the plant source. For wild-collected material, the collector, collection number, and country are given. Location The location of the plant on the landscape. Hover to Learn More 882*A Cercidiphyllaceae Cercidiphyllum japonicum SD - PROF. W.S. CLARK - 1878 W - Japan - CLARK, W.S. W.S. Clark Katsura This katsura arrived at the Arnold Arboretum in 1878. The story of how it came here is the opening of long series of exchanges between the Arboretum and researchers in Japan. The Arnold Arboretum was established in 1872, four years after the Meiji Restoration in Japan. These concurrent events had a profound impact on the collections at the Arboretum. Before the Meiji Restoration, the Japanese government maintained limited interactions with foreign countries. Only Chinese and Dutch ships had been permitted to visit Japan for more than two hundred years, and access was restricted to a single port—Nagasaki. Following the Meiji Restoration, trade between Japan and Western countries expanded rapidly, as did collaborations between Japanese and Western scientists. In 1876, the Japanese government asked an American scientist named William S. Clark to visit and assist with establishing the Sapporo Agricultural College (now Hokkaido University). Clark was the president of the Massachusetts Agricultural College (now the University of Massachusetts, Amherst), and he ultimately spent eight months in Sapporo, consulting with the faculty. While he was there, Clark also collected seeds of local plants. When he returned to Massachusetts, he sent an allotment of those seeds to the Arnold Arboretum, including seed for this katsura. The katsura (Cercidiphyllum japonicum) is one of two species in both its genus Genus: A genus (plural genera) is a taxonomic rank used in the biological classification of living and fossil organisms, as well as viruses, in biology. In the hierarchy of biological classification, genus comes above species and below family. and its family (Cercidiphyllaceae). The scientific name for the genus (Cercidiphyllum) refers to the leaf shape, which resembles the well-known but unrelated redbud (Cercis). This species of katsura is native to northern Japan and China. The second species (C. magnificum) is native to only the central Japanese island of Honshu. The Arboretum’s first director, Charles Sprague Sargent, visited Japan in 1892. He spent a concerted amount of time on Hokkaido. There, he observed that katsuras were an abundant and defining feature of the low, moist woodlands. He included a photograph of a katsura as the frontispiece of a book about his travels. The tree had what Sargent described as a “large but by no means exceptionally large trunk.” It measured almost seven feet in diameter. On that same trip—the first international collecting expedition by an Arboretum staff member—Sargent visited the Sapporo Agricultural College. An accomplished researcher named Kingo Miyabe was the botany professor at the school. Miyabe had studied at Harvard from 1886 to 1889, and although he was unable to travel with Sargent (owing to an illness), he recommended a guide and provided invaluable advice. Miyabe would later collaborate with other Arboretum collectors during their trips to Japan. The Arboretum has also worked with later students and staff from Hokkaido University. (Most recently, in 2018 and 2019, Arboretum collectors visited a Hokkaido University research forest on the central island of Honshu.) In this sense, the katsura from Clark represents the opening of a long and lasting relationship between the Arboretum and researchers in Japan. Click here to read a transcript of the audio segment below. Keeper of the Living Collections Michael Dosmann visited China in 2017. Hear his story about restaging an iconic 1910 photograph of a venerable katsura by Ernest Henry Wilson. Origin: Japan Viewing this plant in-person? Look for these defining characteristics: 1 2 3 4 1 Heart-shaped leaves. Eliane Escher 2 Copious seed pods on female trees. Kyle Port 3 Small red flowers on female trees. William (Ned) Friedman 4 Opposite or nearly opposite buds. Suzanne Mrozak About Our Collection Fun Facts 1 2 3 When katsura leaves turn yellow in the fall, they produce an aroma reminiscent of burnt sugar. In Germany, the tree is called “kuchenbaum,” meaning “cake tree.” For a long time, botanists struggled to determine the relationship between the katsura and other plant species. It is now known, based on genetic evidence, that the witch-hazel family (Hamamelidaceae) is among the closest relatives. The genus name (Cercidiphyllum) indicates that the leaves resemble those of the redbud. Cercis is the genus of redbud, –phyllum means leaf. Stats Living Specimens Specimens Dead or Removed First Addition Most Recent Addition Tallest Specimen 178-87*C Map it ↗ — Dangling flowers on male trees. William (Ned) Friedman 368-2016*B Map it ↗ — Spring leaves. William (Ned) Friedman 1150-67*A Map it ↗ — Persistent fruit. William (Ned) Friedman 698-81-A Map it ↗ — Yellow fall color. William (Ned) Friedman Explore Full Gallery Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Living Specimens Plant ID Accession Date Recieved As Origin Source View all on map Related Stories Leaves have teeth too Director's Posts Living Collections Campaign progress update Living Collections Eternal Forests: The Veneration of Old Trees in Japan Travel Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up