Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Researchers Researchers Amelia Keyser-Gibson and Anju Manandhar mentor DaRin Butz Interns in the laboratory. Background Research is at the heart of the Arnold Arboretum’s mission. Every day our scientists explore broad and important questions in plant biology. Our rich resources — from our world-renowned living collections, to state-of-the-art laboratories, to our vast library and archives — are available to scholars from around the world. Learn more about how we can support your research. Sections Research Facilities → Research News → Research Talks → Our Scientists → Programs & Opportunities → Living Collections Research → Library & Archives → Herbarium of the Arnold Arboretum → Data Resources → The water lily, Nymphaea thermarum. Rebecca Povilus (2013) Lexi Johnson from the University of Rhode Island releases 37 Hypena moths inside a mesh enclosure. Light microscope image of a tuber root by Molly Edwards. Cary Pirone Research Pollination Experiment 2011. Viburnum. Tim Savas (2015) Stigmatic tissue in Magnolia virginiana. Image taken with a dissecting microscope. Juan Losada (2012) Lyonia ligustrina. Tim Savas (2015) Cephalotaxus koreana pollination drops. Image taken with a dissecting microscope. Cary Pirone (2011) Prunus incisa flower Jorge Lora (2013) Corylus cornuta. Tim Savas (2015) Leaf cross-section revealing internal cells. Image taken with a scanning electron microscope. Rebecca Povilus (2012) Water potential study Prunus incisa early stage ovule. Image taken with a upright microscope. Jorge Lora (2013) Aquilegia x caerulea 'origami' flower. Rebecca Povilus (2013) Reproductive structures of Chara, a green algae and common inhabitant of New England ponds. Image taken with a confocal laser scanning microscope. Rebecca Povilus (2013) Humulus lupus stigmatic tissue. Image taken with a scanning electron microscope. Faye Rosin (2012) Experimental setup to measure water potential in the trunk of the tree. Guangyou Hao (2013) Cryptomeria japonica shoot apical meristem. Image taken with a confocal laser scanning microscope. Stephanie Conway (2012) Humulus lupus trichome. Image taken with a scanning electron microscope. Faye Rosin Prunus incisa early stage ovule. Image taken with a confocal scanning laser microscope. Jorge Lora (2013) Explore Full Gallery Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Related Stories How plants adapt to climate change Climate Change The Forest Beneath the Soil Research Uncommon Gardens Research Going where the diversity is Harvard Gazette Tempo of the trees in a warming world Climate Change Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up