Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer About Us The summit of Bussey Hill in spring. Jon Hetman The Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University is a living museum A 281-acre preserve in the heart of Boston, the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University stewards one of the world’s most comprehensive and best documented collections of temperate woody plants, with particular focus on the floras of eastern North America and eastern Asia. The living collections, herbarium, and library and archives support research both in our own laboratories at Weld Hill and by scholars around the world. Free and open every day, this jewel in the Emerald Necklace park system was designed by Frederick Law Olmsted and engages the public through educational opportunities and programs for all ages. Sections Our Mission → Our History → Our Connection to Harvard University → The Emerald Necklace → Sustainability → People → Jobs and Opportunities → Volunteer → Annual Report → Press & Media → Contact Us → The Arboretum's National Maple Collection on Meadow Road. Jon Hetman Students visit the Arboretum as part of the Field Study Experiences. Jon Hetman Director Ned Friedman speaks with members and staff at the dedication of the Weld Hill Solar Array. Jeff Blackwell Boston skyline view from the summit of Peters Hill in winter. Jon Hetman Explore Full Gallery Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Related Stories During the Pandemic, a New Appreciation for Botanical Gardens Blooms Washington Post Travel A living treasure in Boston Harvard Magazine Living Collections Campaign progress update Living Collections Explore the Arboretum with Expeditions Community Sharing our collections through Google Arts and Culture Library and Archives Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up