Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Azalea Border plants Background Fun Facts 1 2 3 4 Korean rhododendron (Rhododendron mucronulatum) is an early-blooming species and is usually the first rhododendron in Azalea Border to bloom each spring. It bears bright lavender-pink flowers that open before the foliage emerges. The Ghent azalea hybrids (Rhododendron × gandavense) bloom in May, displaying a patchwork of flower color among its cultivars and unnamed hybrids. This hybrid group has multiple Rhododendron species in its parentage and originated from plant breeders in Belgium in the early nineteenth century. Coast azalea (Rhododendron atlanticum) has especially fragrant white to light pink flowers and bluish green foliage. Coast azalea is native in the mid-Atlantic and southeastern coastal states where it grows as a twiggy, low-growing shrub in forest understories. Autumn along Azalea Border is also a treat once the katsura trees (Cercidiphyllum spp.) begin to senesce and their leaves change color to yellow and light orange—at this stage the leaves have a pleasant fragrance often compared to the aroma of baking bread and caramelized sugar. About Initially designed by noted landscape architect Beatrix Farrand [pdf] and installed in 1946, this collection of Rhododendron and other members of the heath family (Ericaceae) featured masses of shrubs grown mainly for their ornamental merit. Over time, however, some plants thrived while others perished due to a high water table, prompting a curatorial review and renovation in 2007. The collection continues to feature striking ornamentals, but also offers a destination for accessions of wild provenance—particularly plants that prefer “wet feet” like Rhododendron viscosum and R. atlanticum, the swamp and coastal azaleas, respectively. Each bed within Azalea Border tends to have a prominent backbone species or genus (e.g., Rhododendron arborescens, Enkianthus), with ancillary species and cultivars mixed in. The midsized serviceberries (Amelanchier spp.) are understory species grown in many of the beds; they serve as a thread tying the beds together, particularly when they are all in bloom. The overstory comprises mostly maples, including the Arboretum’s tallest deciduous tree, a silver maple (Acer saccharinum) standing at a height of 104 feet. Notable specimens of katsura (Cercidiphyllum japonicum) and cork trees (Phellodendron amurense) can also be found here. Resources: Find directions and accessibility information for this collection Visit the Azalea Society of America website Visit the Massachusetts Chapter of the American Rhododendron Society website Learn more about Beatrix Ferrand Korean rhododendron (Rhododendron mucronulatum) is an early bloomer in the Azalea Border. Coast azalea (R. atlanticum) Silver maple (Acer saccharinum) accessioned in 1881. Hybrid azalea, a cross of torch azalea (Rhododendron kaempferi) and Korean azalea (R. yedoense var. poukhanense) R. kaempferi x R. yedoense var. poukhanense (Hybird azalea) Flower buds of pinxterbloom azalea (R. periclymenoides) Korean Yodogawa azalea (R. yedoense var. poukhanense) Flowers of highbush blueberry (Vaccinium corymbosum) Sandmyrtle (Kalmia buxifolia) Lavalle cork tree (Phellodendron amurense var. lavallei) accessioned in 1905. Flame azalea (Rhododendron calendulaceum) Knap Hill hybrid azalea (R. 'Brazil') Hybrid azalea (R. × gladwyenensis) Ghent hybrid azalea (R. × gandavense) R. ‘Lady Roseberry’, a Knap Hill hybrid azalea Swamp azalea (R. viscosum) Form of swamp azalea (R. viscosum f. rhodanthum) Maleberry (Lyonia ligustrina var. ligustrina) Dusty Zenobia (Zenobia pulverulenta) Amelanchier laevis (Allegheny shadblow) Fall foliage of enkianthus (Enkianthus spp.) Fall foliage of katsura tree (Cercidiphyllum japonicum) Explore Full Gallery Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Featured Plants 882*A Map it ↗ Katsura Scientific Name Cercidiphyllum japonicum The Arnold Arboretum’s oldest katsura arrived as seed in 1878. The story of how it came here is the opening of long series of exchanges between the Arboretum and researchers in Japan. View plant bio Plants in this Collection Plant ID Accession Date Recieved As Origin Source Featured Walk Explorers Garden Tour This quarter-mile tour through the Explorers Garden features stories from the Arboretum’s century and a half of collecting plants around the world. If you’re at the Arboretum, click here to take a version of this tour with Expeditions, our mobile web app. Take this walk Related Stories A Very Old Pair of Highbush Blueberries Director's Posts A Quarter-Century Perspective on the Center for Plant Conservation Collections at the Arnold Arboretum Conservation Towards Broader Adaptability of North American Deciduous Azaleas Horticulture Rediscovering Rhododendron Dell, Part 1 Curation Rediscovering Rhododendron Dell, Part 2 Curation Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up