Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Visit the Library The Horticultural Library and Archives are currently closed, as are all the buildings at the Arnold Arboretum. You may visit the library online and engage with library staff via email. Lisa Pearson, ca. 2010. At Your Service We are pleased to assist you with navigating our collections. Please e-mail us at hortlib@arnarb.harvard.edu The founder of the Arboretum Library Charles Sprague Sargent and the first librarian Charles Edward Faxon. Unknown photographer, 1882. Arnold Arboretum Archives. Covid Notice The physical location of the library in the Hunnewell Building is currently closed to the public in response to COVID. Researchers are welcome by appointment. Please email us at hortlib@arnarb.harvard.edu to schedule a time. Standard Hours We are open to the public by appointment Tuesday through Friday, 10:00am–4:00pm. Changes in hours of operation are posted here [scroll down to Arnold Arboretum]. Please email to reserve a time. Because of our limited staffing, we cannot accept drop in visitors. No coats or bags are allowed in the library; check them in the lockers on the first floor. Please refer to our Use of the Library and Archives guidelines. Our Philosophy As a small collection in the Harvard Library system, the Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library and Archives’ success is the result of the quality, dedication, and special expertise of our staff. Teamwork, cooperation, courtesy, and respect coupled with the desire to share information with all who seek it are our guiding principles. A corner of the library in a 1903 photograph by Thomas Marr. Archives of the Arnold Arboretum. Permissions, Licensing, Imaging Services We regulate the use of materials in our collections. Our access, reproduction, and publication policies were established by the Library with the advice of Harvard’s Office of the General Counsel. Our policies balance the needs of patrons, the rights of the copyright holder, and our rights and responsibilities towards our collections. Our licensing agreement, permissions documents, and fee schedules: Licensing agreement for duplication of images Permission to examine archival materials Permission to publish manuscript material Schedule of fees for imaging reproduction Schedule of fees for photocopying and imaging services Member of the Council on Botanical and Horticultural Libraries. An international organization whose purpose is to initiate and improve communications among persons and institutions concerned with the development, maintenance and use of libraries of botanical and horticultural literature. Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up