Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Arnold Arboretum Privacy Statement The following discloses our information gathering and dissemination practices for this website (https://arboretum.harvard.edu). Information gathering Our web server software generates logfiles of the IP addresses of computers that access this website and of what files they access. These web server logs are retained on a temporary basis and then deleted completely from our systems. Use of information We use your IP address and files you access to help diagnose problems with our server and to administer our website by identifying (1) which parts of our site are most heavily used, and (2) which portion of our audience comes from within the Harvard network. We also use this information to tailor site content to user needs, and to generate aggregate statistical reports. At no time do we disclose site usage by individual IP addresses. We do not link IP addresses to anything personally identifiable. This means that user sessions may be analyzed, but the users will remain anonymous. We also do not use cookies. Security This site has security measures in place to protect the loss, misuse and alteration of the information under our control. Users Located in the European Economic Areas If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), click here for additional information about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units, and controlled entities, including the Arnold Arboretum, may collect, use, and share information about you. Contacting Us If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices of this site, or your dealings with this site, you can contact arbweb@arnarb.harvard.edu This website may contain links to other websites. We are not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such websites. Changes to this policy An announcement of any changes to this policy will be posted prominently here for three months before any changes go into effect. Effective Date The effective date of this policy was 5/25/2018. Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up