Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer The Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University is a museum of trees teaching the world about plants. Find out more! Dove Tree 5159*A Flame Azalea 109-2007*S European Beech 14588*A Cultivar of the Common Lilac 752-93*A Judd Cherry 61-79*A Mountain Witch Alder 694-34*A Nikko Fir 22767*A Mountain Silverbell 21577*A Eastern Redbud 633-83*C Pinkshell Azalea 657-70*A Minimize Maximize Celebrate 150 Home Explore 150 years of the Arnold Arboretum—and our vision for the future. Celebrate 150 No thank you. Announcements ← Previous → Next Discover a great place to work. Apply to become a part of our community as an employee. View current employment opportunities We now offer several pages in Spanish and simplified Chinese Ahora ofrecemos varias páginas en español y chino simplificado 目前我们的官方网站内容已经完成了西班牙文和简体中文的版本 Vea nuestra página 'Visita' en español 简体中文版本请查看我们的“计划访问”页面 We are seeking a Growth Facilities Manager to oversee our growth facilities for research and teaching. Apply for Growth Facilities Manager Featured Event See all events → Jun 12 The Bomb-itty of Errors With four actors, a live DJ, and one of Shakespeare’s funniest comedies, The Bomb-itty of Errors by Jordan Allen-Dutton, Jason Catalano, Gregory J. Qaiyum, Jeffrey Qaiyum, and Erik Weiner is a hip-hop-opera that moves the crowd! Directed by Christopher V. Edwards and performed by Actors' Shakespeare Project against the historic brick backdrop of the Hunnewell Building, The Bomb-itty of Errors comes to the Arboretum during our 150th anniversary year. 5:00 pm Learn More Explore with Us! Check out more activites and resources for learning → spring guided tours, art show | seeds for tomorrow: woody plants of the arnold arboretum, massq ball 2022: origin, storywalks, arnold selects, expeditions : the arboretum’s new mobile app, growing a museum specimen, ← Previous → Next Spring Guided Tours Join us for a walk through the Arboretum! Tour seasonal plant highlights and learn about Arboretum history from a trained docent. Learn More and Register Art Show | Seeds for Tomorrow: Woody Plants of the Arnold Arboretum In our latest exhibition, Laura Fantini uses colored pencil to render seeds in exquisite, hyper-realistic drawings. This series is called “Hope,” and therein lies the power of seeds. They are emblematic of both birth and growth—small, complicated, and extraordinary, like the wonderful drawings in this exhibition. View the online exhibition MassQ Ball 2022: Origin Convene in our collections to celebrate what makes us both unique and unified. A MassQ is a ritual application of paint to the face in order to reveal one's inner state of being. MassQing derives from the ancient tradition of body decoration practiced by nearly every indigenous culture on earth. Join us for this intergenerational, cross-cultural exhibition of the arts and interact with the landscape in new, creative ways. Learn More StoryWalks StoryWalks are a wonderful way for families to read and talk about nature in the Arboretum landscape. Each month we set out a seasonal story about nature by using children’s picture books with beautiful illustrations and kid-friendly language. The StoryWalks migrate weekly through locations just inside several of the most traveled gates in the Arboretum. StoryWalks Arnold Selects Explore the past, present, and future of plant introduction at the Arboretum Arnold Selects Expeditions : the Arboretum’s new mobile app Explore stories about botany, horticulture, conservation, and Arboretum history through photos, text, and audio segments. Expeditions Mobile App Growing a Museum Specimen Learn about the life of an Arboretum plant on Google Arts & Culture. Explore the online exhibit Stories Read more stories → Feature Art Explore Your Origins at MassQ Ball 2022 Springtime Antics at the Arnold Arboretum Harvard Magazine Lilac Sunday, Director's Series Celebrate 150 Years of the Arnold Arboretum Events Katsuras Awaken! Director's Posts Of Seeds and the Future Art Springtime Antics at the Arnold Arboretum Harvard Magazine Lilac Sunday, Director’s Series Celebrate 150 Years of the Arnold Arboretum Events Katsuras Awaken! Director's Posts Of Seeds and the Future Art Today's Virtual Walks See all virtual walks → Introductory Tour This half-mile Introductory Tour features stories about the Arboretum’s history, mission, and research endeavors. If you’re at the Arboretum, click here to take a version of this tour with Expeditions, our mobile web app. 40 mins Easy 0.5 miles Dove tree (Davidia involucrata). Explorers Garden Tour This quarter-mile tour through the Explorers Garden features stories from the Arboretum’s century and a half of collecting plants around the world. If you’re at the Arboretum, click here to take a version of this tour with Expeditions, our mobile web app. 45 mins Easy .25 miles Workmen constructing the South Street Gate area of the Arboretum photographed in 1889. A Walk Through Time, Part 1 Walk with Landscape Architect Rosetta S. Elkin and Arboretum Archivist Lisa E. Pearson. 20 mins An easy walk with several hills, accessible for mobility impaired visitors .25 miles Japanese black pines <(Pinus thunbergii) on an island in the bay of Shiogama, Japan. Photograph by John Jack, August 1905. A Walk Through Time, Part 2 Walk with Landscape Architect Rosetta S. Elkin and Arboretum Archivist Lisa E. Pearson. 30 mins An easy walk with a hill, accessible for mobility impaired visitors. .25 miles Plants & Collections See more Plants & Collections → 164-96*A Map it ↗ ‘Lilac Sunday’ Lilac Scientific Name Syringa × chinensis ‘Lilac Sunday’ The Arnold Arboretum introduced a lilac called ‘Lilac Sunday’ in 1997. This garden favorite can produce clusters of flowers that are more than two feet long. View plant bio 882*A Map it ↗ Katsura Scientific Name Cercidiphyllum japonicum The Arnold Arboretum’s oldest katsura arrived as seed in 1878. The story of how it came here is the opening of long series of exchanges between the Arboretum and researchers in Japan. View plant bio Crabapple Collection Lilac Collection Explorers Garden Azalea Border Community We are educators, researchers, horticulturists, recordkeepers, arborists, growers, librarians, volunteers, and everyone in between. ← Previous → Next Community Spotlight Ana Maria Caballero, Outdoor Educator I am inspired by the absolute passion that every staff member and our volunteers possess to make this place as beautiful and as accessible to the public as possible. There are multiple entry points to conservation, education, and research—our mission—but the Arnold Arboretum as a place and its people are the conduits that make our mission come alive. Community Spotlight Antonio Capuchina-Serrato, Post-doctoral Fellow I view myself as an explorer of questions that remain unanswered or poorly understood, striving to help understand the natural world. The Arnold Arboretum showcases the beauty of nature and offers world-class research facilities to explore the source of the biodiversity on display. It’s much more than a beautiful place to walk—it’s a place for everyone and a valuable natural resource in the city. Community Spotlight Laura Mele, Lead Horticulturist The Arboretum holds 16,000 plants but there is also cutting edge research, children’s outdoor education training, art exhibits and installations, interns learning about horticulture, plant collecting trips, international exchanges, and much more. In short, the Arboretum is more than meets the eye: the more you look, the more you see. Community Spotlight Kathryn Richardson, Curatorial Assistant I love the work I do, benefiting the scientific community and the public in so many ways with the plants and data we share. The Arboretum is always striving to improve the way we share our knowledge to make the world a better place. From the very beginning our founders understood the value of documentation. Each plant we grow has incredible value, and every piece of data we attach increases that value. In essence, the Arboretum is living laboratory of plants with many stories yet to be told and be inspired by. Community Spotlight A.J. Tataronis, Arborist The Arboretum makes connections between people and trees, which is so important in an urban environment. I have the privilege of climbing and working directly with these trees. I love being part of this community and helping to maintain this beautiful collection. Community Spotlight Tiffany Enzenbacher, Head of Plant Production What inspires me about the Arboretum is that each plant in the landscape has a story to tell: where it came from or where the species is native, the individual who harvested the seed in the field to grow it, how it was propagated—information that makes the plant unique. All of these narratives weave together to tell the 150-year account of the Arboretum. Community Spotlight Larissa Glasser, Assistant Librarian Any walk or bike ride through the landscape is physically and spiritually restorative, all year round. I love teaching horticultural interns and students about our archives, Harvard’s shared online resources, and the importance of diversity and equal opportunities in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics). Community Spotlight Chris McArdle, Volunteer Tour Guide Every tour brings a surprise, even after 36 years! It might be the sun catching the “Ruby Glow” witch hazel in February or the smell of toasted marshmallows from trodden katsura leaves in the fall. A squirrel running up a visitor’s trouser leg was perhaps the biggest surprise of them all. Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up