Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Give and Join Head Arborist John DelRosso discusses the oak collection at an event for the Sargent-Olmsted Society. Kathleen Dooher The Arnold Arboretum relies on the strength of a dedicated community of supporters that respects the beauty and wonder of the natural world. You can make a difference! More than 95% of annual operating funds for the Arnold Arboretum come directly from members, donors, and philanthropic endowments. Contribute to our mission by becoming a member, making a one-time gift, initiating a commemorative bench dedication, or considering a planned gift to the Arboretum as a part of your estate planning. Make a difference Become a Member → One-time Gift → Bench Dedication → Planned Giving → Related Stories New Interdisciplinary Class Asks: “What Do Plants Know?” BU Today Arnold Arboretum Launches Mobile Visitor Center Visitor Engagement Evergreens Are Deciduous Too! Director's Posts Celebrate 150 Years with Us Events Teachers as Citizen Climate Scientists Education Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up