Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Volunteer Opportunities Volunteers help children explore the natural world. Photographs by Jon Hetman, Nancy Sableski, Kevin Schofield, and Julie Warsowe. Volunteers are essential to the Arboretum’s educational mission of fostering knowledge and appreciation of life science and the natural world. Please consider participating as an Arboretum volunteer—enjoy the rewards of connecting people with the world of plants. Volunteer Field Study Guide with children on Hemlock Hill. Field Study Guides Make a difference as a volunteer guide in our Field Study Experiences. Lead small groups of children from Boston area schools through hands on, active learning programs. Guide recruitment is ongoing; we are always interviewing for new guides. To learn more, submit a volunteer application, or contact Manager of Children’s Education Nancy Sableski at 617.384.5239 or by email. Arboretum Interpreters Engage with visitors young and old, help people find their way, share your fascination for plants, and communicate how the Arboretum is a living museum. Interpreters are trained to use a small display in the landscape and to interact with visitors in casual, one-on-one or small group interactions. To be contacted to learn more about the program, please fill out and submit the volunteer application, or contact Sheryl White, Coordinator of Visitor Engagement and Exhibitions, at 617.384.5251. Arboretum Docents Share your love of plants. Become an arboretum docent and lead landscape tours for groups of adults. Tours include a combination of Arboretum information, current plant highlights, natural history, and botany. To be contacted to learn more about the program, please fill out and submit the volunteer application, or contact Sheryl White, Coordinator of Visitor Engagement and Exhibitions, at 617.384.5251. Photographs by Jon Hetman, Nancy Sableski, Sheryl White, and Regina Mission. Past Programs Tree Spotters Citizen Science Program Active from 2015 through 2020, the Tree Spotters Citizen Science program partnered with the National Phenology Network (NPN) to train citizen scientists to collect phenology data from 15 native tree species at the Arnold Arboretum. The program began as an initiative of the Temporal Ecology Laboratory (formerly located at Harvard University), and later became an official Arnold Arboretum program in 2018. During the program’s six-year span, hundreds of volunteers submitted over 330,000 phenological observations to the NPN’s database. These data can be accessed on the Data Resources page, or using the NPN’s Phenology Observation Portal or Phenology Visualization Tool. While the official program concluded in December 2020, Tree Spotters continues as a volunteer-run citizen science group at the Arboretum. Please contact dschissler@fas.harvard.edu for more information. Many thanks to Tree Spotters participants for their hard work and dedication to the program over the years! Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up