Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer A Birthday Present for the Dana Greenhouses Featured Story Silva Katsuras Awaken! ned logo Current Arnoldia Issue: Volume 79 Issue 1 arnoldia logo Arboretum Trees for Boston School Yards Community Saving the World’s Threatened Trees Rare and Endangered Explore Your Origins at MassQ Ball 2022 Bay State Banner Happy Birthday Frederick Law Olmsted! Legacies Issue: 78-2 See All → Closing the Book on Sargent’s Weeping Hemlock History Pandemic Digitization Botany Redefining “Remote Fieldwork” Education Each Year in the Forest: Autumn Botany How Trees Were Urbanized Book Review A Writer’s World: Fagus sylvatica ‘Pendula’ Plant Profiles Springtime Antics at the Arnold Arboretum Harvard Magazine Lilac Sunday, Director’s Series Celebrate 150 Years of the Arnold Arboretum Events Harvard’s Arnold Arboretum Celebrates its 150th Anniversary Harvard Crimson Women of the Arnold Arboretum, Part 2 Observations from Our Director See All → As a neighbor of the Arboretum, I witness changes daily. Subscribe to my newsletter to see what I encounter each week. Subscribe Katsuras Awaken! Director's Posts Katsuras Awaken! Director's Posts Hazels and Filberts in Full Bloom at the Arnold Director's Posts The Essence of Marcescence Director's Posts Hickories in Full Fall Regalia Director's Posts Evergreens Are Deciduous Too! Director's Posts Of Seeds and the Future Art Women of the Arnold Arboretum, Part 1 History The Arnold Arboretum from the Air History Gardens for All Environmental Justice Popular Contributors See All → Ana Maria Caballero Outdoor Educator Jonathan Damery Arnoldia Contributor Peter Del Tredici Senior Research Scientist Emeritus Michael S. Dosmann Keeper of the Living Collections William (Ned) Friedman Director of the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University Jake J. Grossman Former Putnam Fellow Jon Hetman Associate Director of External Relations and Communications Brendan Keegan Arboretum Horticulturist Jared Rubinstein Former Associate Project Manager, Horticulture Lisa Pearson, Head of Library and Archives Lisa Pearson Head of the Library and Archives Kyle Port Manager of Plant Records W. John Kress Visiting Scholar of the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University Popular Categories Topics Botany → Education → History → Plant Exploration → Plant Profiles → Genera Acer → Metasequoia → Pinus → Quercus → Rhododendron → All Stories Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up