Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Crabapple Collection plants Sargent Crabapple (Malus sargentii) 286-89*B. William (Ned) Friedman Background Fun Facts 1 2 3 4 5 6 Crabapples bloom in white and shades of red ranging from pale pink to deep purplish rose. Often the flower buds are a darker shade than the open flowers, adding attractive contrast on blooming branches. Many Malus species bear pink buds that open to white flowers. Crabapple flowers are beautiful, but individual trees are typically in bloom for only a week or two. Crabapple fruit, on the other hand, can persist for months, providing a much longer show of color than the flowers do. Many crabapples display showy fruit from September through at least November, and cultivars with highly persistent fruit may carry on the show through much of the winter. Most Malus species are native to Eurasia, but there are a few that are native to North America. An example in the Arboretum’s collection is prairie crabapple (M. ioensis). This species bears large (1 to 1.5 inch diameter) fruit that provide food for wildlife when they fall but make the tree less desirable for most landscape uses. Sargent crabapple (Malus sargentii) was named in honor of the Arboretum’s founding director, Charles S. Sargent, who first brought seeds of this species to the United States from Japan. This naturally small-growing species reaches a height of only 6 to 8 feet but has a horizontal spread of 8 to 15 feet. It has white flowers and small (1/4 to 1/3 inch diameter) red fruit that persists into winter. Malus ‘Mary Potter’ is another crabapple with a Sargent connection. This cultivar was hybridized and selected by Arboretum researcher Karl Sax in 1947 and was named in honor of Charles Sprague Sargent’s daughter. It grows about 10 to 15 feet tall and 15 to 20 feet wide. Pink buds open to white flowers, which are followed by ½ inch diameter red fruit. Most ornamental crabapple cultivars are small trees, typically maturing at 15 to 25 feet tall. A notable exception on Peters Hill is a specimen of Malus x robusta ‘Arnold-Canada’ (172-52-B). At just over 40 feet tall, it towers over neighboring crabapples. In addition to its large size, this rare cultivar is noted for its showy yellow and red fruit and for developing good yellow fall foliage color. About For more than a century, the Arboretum has played a pivotal role in the study, introduction, and promotion of the genus Malus, which includes the apples and crabapples. Today, 154 taxa (kinds) comprise our collections. These include 55 species, many of which were collected from their native ranges, primarily in Asia. The collection also holds 91 cultivars, which have been selected for certain horticultural merits such as flower size and color, fruit persistence, and disease resistance. Resources: Find directions and accessibility information for this collection Read about the legacy of crabapples at the Arnold Arboretum. Read more about the Crabapple Collection in Arnoldia [pdf] Flower of Malus x zumi (variant). Siberian crabapple (Malus baccata) in full bloom. Aerial shot of the Crabapple Collection. Autumn fruit of Malus 'Donald Wyman'. Malus spontanea in bloom. Flowers of common crabapple (Malus pumila) Malus orientalis Fruit of prarie crabapple (Malus ioensis) Malus 'Henry Kohankie' with Autumn leaf color Yunnan crabapple (Malus yunnanensis). Fruit of Malus sp. Multiple stems of Malus sylvestris x lancifolia Malus 'Purple Prince' in bloom Malus sp. in bloom Cutleaf crabapple (Malus toringoides) Blooms of Flowers of Malus 'Dorothea' Fruit of Sargent crabapple (Malus sargentii) Explore Full Gallery Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Plants in this Collection Plant ID Accession Date Recieved As Origin Source Featured Walk Explorers Garden Tour This quarter-mile tour through the Explorers Garden features stories from the Arboretum’s century and a half of collecting plants around the world. If you’re at the Arboretum, click here to take a version of this tour with Expeditions, our mobile web app. Take this walk Related Stories Improving paths on Peters Hill Landscape In our collection: Amelanchier Living Collections Spring reboot for autumn’s harbinger Curation A Medlar by Any Other Name Plant Exploration Malus at the Arnold Arboretum: An Ongoing Legacy Horticulture Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up