Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Explorers Garden plants Background Fun Facts 1 2 3 4 5 The Explorers Garden is home to two of the largest Franklin trees (Franklinia alatamaha) in the world. This species is now extinct in the wild. The original North American introduction of paperbark maple (Acer griseum) from China can be found growing among this collection. The first wild-collected hardy cedars of Lebanon (Cedrus libani) were wild-collected from the Taurus Mountains in 1900. One of the first introductions can be found among the Explorers Garden. Keep your eyes open for a century-old specimen of Chinese fringe tree (Chionanthus retusus), which bears a profusion of snowy white flowers from late May through mid June. See if you can find seven-son flower (Heptacodium miconioides) known for its peeling bark, white flowers and bright red whorls of sepals. About The Explorers Garden rests in a microclimate just below the summit of Bussey Hill. This nearly three acre (one hectare) site provides ideal growing conditions for many species that have been challenging to grow in less protected areas of the Arboretum. Currently, the garden showcases 330 taxa (kinds), 130 genera, and 56 families. As such, it has proven to be a perfect testing ground for plants collected in the expeditions of E. H. Wilson in the early 1900s to the NACPEC [pdf] (North America-China Plant Exploration Consortium) expeditions of our own time. While many of the plants showcased here derive from Asia, the Explorers Garden also displays rare and/or marginally hardy American native plants such as Franklin tree (Franklinia alatamaha) and Florida yew (Taxus floridana). Resources: Find directions and accessibility information for this collection Check out the Arboretum’s new mobile app, Expeditions, for an interactive tour of the Explorers Garden Read more about the the “microclimates” of the Explorers Garden in Arnoldia [pdf] Read more about our history of plant exploration and see a list of expeditions Seven-son flower (Heptacodium miconioides) Inflorescence of dovetree (Davidia involucrata) Flowers and foliage of Franklin tree (Franklinia alatamaha) Tea Viburnum (Viburnum setigerum) Paeonia 'Hephestos' (god of fire) Chinese Path (looking East) Mottled bark of Stewartia sinensis Flowers of fringetree (Chionanthus retusus) Chinese Path (looking West) Winter jasmine Jasminum nudiflorum) in flower Cedar of Lebanon (Cedrus libani) in winter Explore Full Gallery Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Featured Plants 1549-80*B Map it ↗ Seven Son Flower Scientific Name Heptacodium miconioides A botanist at the Arnold Arboretum officially named and described the seven son flower in 1916. But the species would not be grown in the United States until 1980. This plant was among the first. View plant bio 2428-3*A Map it ↗ Franklin Tree Scientific Name Franklinia alatamaha A member of the tea family (Theaceae), Franklin tree sports a showy white flower and striking fall foliage. John Bartram, an early American botanist, recorded his encounter with the elusive plant while exploring southeastern Georgia with his son William in 1765. William later collected seed and propagated the plant, which became extinct in the wild shortly thereafter. View plant bio Plants in this Collection Plant ID Accession Date Recieved As Origin Source Featured Walk Explorers Garden Stroll this microclimate on Bussey Hill and discover plants emblematic of our rich tradition of exploration and research. Take this walk Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up