Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Explore with Us! Mesmerized, Photograph by Bruce Wilson The visitor center may be closed, but the learning continues! We invite you to explore with us from home or at the Arboretum by checking out the activities and resources below. Expeditions Mobile App A new app called Expeditions offers visitors with a smartphone a deeper experience with the Arboretum’s notable plants and history of plant collecting. Wonder Spot | What’s the Buzz All About!? Visit the Leventritt Shrub and Vine Garden this month with your family to see pollinators at work! Our newest Wonder Spot helps you investigate which flowers attract the most pollinators. #WonderSpots #GetOutside #OutdoorLearning Look here for a fully translated Spanish version. Art Show | Seeds for Tomorrow: Woody Plants of the Arnold Arboretum Laura Fantini uses colored pencil to render seeds in exquisite, hyper-realistic drawings. This series is called “Hope,” and therein lies the power of seeds. They are emblematic of both birth and growth—small, complicated, and extraordinary, like the wonderful drawings in this exhibition. Watch With Us! Learn about plants and wildlife from Arboretum specialists on our YouTube channel. The Arboretum on Google Arts and Culture The Arboretum has partnered with the Google Arts & Culture, an immersive online learning platform, to bring the stories of our plants to life through specially curated online exhibits and image galleries. Self-guided Tours Explore the Arboretum at your own pace and gain a richer understanding of this special landscape. Choose from one of many self-guided tours to print in advance or view on your mobile device. Virtual Learning for Families Thirty minutes of nature learning can inspire a lifetime of nature noticing for children and their families. Close ← Previous → Next Next ← Next → / Map it ↗ — Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up