Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Arnold Selects Background Arnold Selects, the Arboretum’s newly created Plant Introduction program, has launched on the eve of our sesquicentennial. This program blends the art and science of horticulture to bring exceptional plants from our living collections to gardeners around the world. Throughout the Arboretum’s 150 years of exploration, introduction, and stewardship, staff have developed and retained stories about the origins and quirks of individual plants. Our model is to provide this unique material to nursery partners for propagation, along with cultural information and backstories, so that a new audience can feel a personal connection to what is growing in their gardens. Arnold Select Introductions Commencing in 2021 and continuing annually, we will offer our partners extraordinary, reliable, and valued up-and-coming selections, as well as already registered, historical Arboretum varieties that are not widely available in commercial nurseries. Arnold Selects will transform gardens by forging a link to our rich tales of global expeditions, legendary plantspeople, and horticulture research with our outstanding varieties available through the trade in the present day. Leaves of Acer rubrum ‘Schlesingeri’ in fall color. Kyle Port Foliage and form of Abies koreana ‘Prostrate Beauty’. Tiffany Enzenbacher Featured Introductions 3256*A Map it ↗ ‘Schlesingeri’ Red Maple Scientific Name Acer rubrum ‘Schlesingeri’ ‘Schlesingeri’ showcases the earliest fall color of all red maples. It was also one of the first cultivars that the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University introduced in the late 19th century. View plant bio 913-67*B Map it ↗ ‘Prostrate Beauty’ Korean Fir Scientific Name Abies koreana ‘Prostrate Beauty’ ‘Prostrate Beauty’ Korean fir is an extremely dwarf form of the species. This cultivar is cutting grown from a low horizontal branch off of a Korean fir. View plant bio Arnold Selects Partner Nurseries Broken Arrow, Hamden, CT Brotzman's Nursery, Madison, OH Cricket Hill Nursery, Thomaston, CT Heritage Seedlings & Liners, Salem, OR Pleasant Run Nursery, Allentown, NJ Weston Nurseries, Hopkinton and Chelmsford, MA Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up