Jump to main content Facebook User menu Log in Princeton Mellon Initiative in Architecture, Urbanism & the Humanities Search form Search Main menu HOME ABOUT NEWS Featured AFFILIATED COURSES EVENTS Archive Upcoming Calendar FORUM MEDIA PEOPLE Principal Investigators Current Fellows (2021-22) Steering Committee Affiliated Faculty Administration Past Fellows CONTACT Fall 2022 Courses on Urbanism Registration now open Read more... Princeton Mellon Initiative featured on University homepage Princeton’s Mellon Fellows are bringing fresh perspectives to research and teaching in architecture, urbanism and the humanities Jamie Saxon, Office of Communications April 6, 2022, 4 p.m. Read more... HighWaterLine: New Jersey Discussions on April 13, April 20, and May 4 Read more... The Architecture of Confinement Conference | Time, Site, Care, and the Individual Princeton University | April 14, 2022 Read more... Mellon Forum recordings on Media Central Fall 2020, Spring 2021, Fall 2021, and Spring 2022 Session Recordings Read more... ‘First on Film’: Student-curated exhibit reflects on ‘the long journey’ of racial integration and inclusion at Princeton PMI co-PI Alison Isenberg and documentary filmmaker Purcell Carson lead exhibit at First College Read more... As cities around the world become increasingly prominent as centers of financial markets, cultural innovation, and international migration it is more urgent than ever that our educational institutions enable teaching and research on urban topics. Urbanization is not only a global phenomenon of physical and cultural restructuring; it has itself become a spatial effect of the distributed networks of communication, resources, finance and migration that characterize contemporary life. The emergence of this global urban culture has had complicated social, aesthetic, economic, physical, and political effects, many of which are still little studied or understood. The study of the city is fundamentally interdisciplinary. Cities are complex entities that cannot be reduced to a few variables. Moreover, as cities have grown and changed, urbanism is no longer exclusively associated with dense city centers. An increasing awareness of the environmental effects of urban growth means that the city needs to be understood within a larger ecological context. All of this makes the city a fruitful research topic and a rich teaching vehicle across a wide range of fields. The Princeton-Mellon Initiative seeks to advance our understanding of these questions, while also probing unforeseen possibilities. With the support of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, in 2014 the University launched the Princeton-Mellon Initiative in Architecture, Urbanism & the Humanities, an interdisciplinary program that combines the efforts of a diverse group of faculty, programs, and schools to develop a more dynamic and nuanced understanding of urban issues today. Featured News Happy Holidays Wishing you a happy and healthy holiday. Stay tuned for announcements on 2022 event programming. Spring 2022 Courses with the Princeton-Mellon Initiative Urban-Focused Spring 2022 Courses Click on the course name for the direct link to the Registrar's website. The Profession’s Extensions: Architecture Beyond Architects in the Modern Middle East / May 13-14, 2022 The Fung Global Fellows Program, PIIRS and the ... Grad Students and Fellows / October 8 Hosted by the Princeton Mellon Fellows RETURN: The Fall Mellon Forum on the Urban Environment Series continues November 10 and 17 at 12pm ET. Attend In Person, Zoom, or watch on PU Channel 7 LIVE View All News | More RSS feeds Events No upcoming events found. View All Events Secondary menu The Princeton-Mellon Initiative is made possible by The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Princeton, New Jersey 08544 USA Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University