Please visit arc.ucr.edu/spring2022 for information on how to access remote services through the ARC. × Skip to main content Undergraduate Education UCR Home ARC Related Links Undergraduate Education University Writing Program Student Engagement Summer Sessions Search UC Riverside Academic Resource Center Achieve Learn Succeed Search About Mission/Values/Goals Contact Us Excel in Your Courses Tutoring Supplemental Instruction (SI) R'Success Workshop Series Assistance/Coaching/Encouragement (ACE) Writing Support Program Special Cohort Programs/Services Intermediate Algebra Workshop (ARC 035) HESA Mathematics Advisory Exam Early Assist Transfer Success Program Placement Exams MAE Overview MAE Overview Video Acceptable Forms of ID Placement Adjustment Process Math Classes at UCR Workshops/Seminars R'Success Workshop Series Intermediate Algebra Workshop (ARC 035) Request a Workshop UCR Home ARC Related Links Undergraduate Education University Writing Program Student Engagement Summer Sessions Previous Next Welcome to the Academic Resource Center My name is Rena Burton, and I am the Director of the Academic Resource Center. The ARC offers a wide variety of programs and services to support students in being successful here at UC Riverside. I invite you to take advantage of our academic support programs like tutoring, Supplemental Instruction, writing support and Early Assist, to get ahead in your classes. If you’re interested in personal growth and development, our Assistance, Coaching, and Encouragement (ACE) peer mentoring program and R’Success Workshops will help you develop skills that will allow you to be successful at UCR and beyond. If you want information about preparing for graduate school, the ARC also has resources to support you in that. There is something for every undergraduate student, at every stage of the journey, at the Academic Resource Center. Our team of professional and student staff work to empower students to grow intellectually and personally, as you all pursue the goals you have set for yourself. Please come visit us on the 1st floor of Skye Hall and see how we can best support you in your academic and personal pursuits here at UCR! ARC Office Hours Monday - Friday: 8am - 5pm Closed Saturday - Sunday, and Campus Holidays. Stop by and ask for a tour of the ARC today! Referrals To refer students to the Assistance, Counseling and Encouragement program, complete the Referral Form To request a tutor, complete the Request for Tutoring form Our Programs Tutoring More Information Supplemental Instruction (SI) More Information R'Success Workshop Series More Information Assistance, Coaching, and Encouragement (ACE) More Information Undergraduate Writing Center More Information Intermediate Algebra Workshop (ARC35) More Information Highlander Early Start More Information Mathematics Advisory Exam More Information Early Assist More Information Transfer Success Program More Information Reading Support More Information Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Academic Resource Center Room 156, First Floor 380 Skye Hall tel: (951) 827-3721 fax: (951) 827-4543 email: arc@ucr.edu Related Links Capital Internships Community Engaged Learning First-Generation Initiatives Health Professions Advising Center (HPAC) Keep Learning Follow US: Visit ARC Facebook page Visit ARC on Twitter Follow ARC on Instagram Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel