Skip to main content Collections Finding Aids Subject Guides Online Exhibits Penn History Penn People Penn People A-Z Penn Notables Digitized Resources Documents & Publications Digital Image Collection PennArchives YouTube Conducting Research Visiting the Archives Guidelines for Using Materials Services and Fees Genealogical Research Classroom Resources Archives Info Special Procedures for Spring 2022 Virtual Tours Other Archives at Penn Archives Staff FAQ Contact the Archives University Records Center Procedures Resources Records Center Staff FAQ Contact the Records Center Home » Online Exhibits » Penn People » Penn Notables Online Exhibits Penn Notables Benjamin Franklin, portrait painting, c. 1780 Get more image details Ida Elizabeth (Bowser) Asbury, c. 1935 Get more image details Michail M. Dorizas, c. 1915 Get more image details Related Links Penn History Exhibits Penn People A-Z Read about the distinguished men and women of the University of Pennsylvania and their contributions to the University and the outside world. Sadie Tanner Mossell Alexander, c. 1950 Get more image details Notable African Americans at Penn Biographies and personal papers Alvin Christian Kraenzlein running the hurdles, c. 1900 Get more image details Distinguished Penn Athletes Selected Penn athletes who have competed at the Olympic and professional level Cecil Clay, c. 1900 Get more image details Awards and Honors Lists of awards to University of Pennsylvania faculty and students James Wilson, 1899 Get more image details Signers of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution Signers with ties to the University of Pennsylvania William Pepper, Jr., c. 1890 Get more image details Penn Alumni Presidents Presidents of Penn Alumni, 1895-present Thomas Sovereign Gates, c. 1930 Get more image details University Leaders Past presidents, provosts, and chairmen of the Board of Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania First women to matriculate at the University of Pennsylvania, working in the chemistry laboratory, 1878 Get more image details Women at Penn Distinguished early graduates, faculty, and benefactors of the University University Archives | University of Pennsylvania | 3401 Market Street, Suite 210 | Philadelphia, PA 19104 © 2022 University Archives and Records Center Protocols | Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Facebook Twitter YouTube X Full hours and public access to the University Archives have resumed as of January 24, 2022. Appointments are required. Please consult our Special Procedures for Spring 2022 for details.