Skip to main content Left arrow Barnard.edu Open Search Close Our Department Back Contact Us Department Mission Departmental and Student Publications Departmental Events Departmental News Departmental Dialogue Series: Building Solidarities Curriculum & Courses Back Recommended Courses for First Year Students Academic Year 2022-2023 Courses Approved Courses for the Majors & Minor Requirements for the Majors & Minors Architecture Department Course Descriptions Courses at The Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation (GSAPP) Independent Study in Architecture Faculty Back Faculty Profiles Faculty Advising Appointments for Students Students Back Resources for Current Students Employment Opportunities Student Groups Prizes Frequently Asked Questions Recent Student Work Prospective Students Left arrow Barnard.edu Search for: Search All of Barnard.edu Architecture Architecture at Barnard and Columbia The Architecture major establishes an intellectual context for students to interpret the relation of form, space, program, materials and media to human life and thought. Through the Architecture curriculum, students participate in the ongoing shaping of knowledge about the built environment and learn to see architecture as one among many forms of cultural production. Architecture at Barnard and Columbia The Architecture major establishes an intellectual context for students to interpret the relation of form, space, program, materials and media to human life and thought. Through the Architecture curriculum, students participate in the ongoing shaping of knowledge about the built environment and learn to see architecture as one among many forms of cultural production. Architecture at Barnard and Columbia The Architecture major establishes an intellectual context for students to interpret the relation of form, space, program, materials and media to human life and thought. Through the Architecture curriculum, students participate in the ongoing shaping of knowledge about the built environment and learn to see architecture as one among many forms of cultural production. Learn More Architecture at Barnard and Columbia The Architecture major establishes an intellectual context for students to interpret the relation of form, space, program, materials and media to human life and thought. Through the Architecture curriculum, students participate in the ongoing shaping of knowledge about the built environment and learn to see architecture as one among many forms of cultural production. Fall 2022 Course Applications Applications for our fall courses are now available and will be accepted on a rolling basis through the end of the summer. We will conduct four rounds of reviewing applications and admitting students to our courses during the following periods: The week of April 25–29, 2022 The week of June 27–July 1, 2022 The week of August 22–26, 2022 The week of August 29–September 2, 2022 For a complete list of undergraduate courses that have been approved to fulfill various architecture major and minor requirements, please review our Fall 2022 Program Planning List. Fall 2022 Course Applications Fall 2022 Program Planning List Events May 3 Independent Study Presentations May 3, 2022 | 12:45pm - 2:00pm 502 Diana May 5 The B+C|A End of Year Show May 5, 2022 | 6:00pm - 8:00pm The Louise McCagg Gallery, The Diana Center Apr 27 B+C|A Final Reviews April 27, 2022 - May 3, 2022 Barnard College Upcoming Architecture Events Contact Us Prospective students who are applying to Barnard College, Columbia College, or The School of General Studies and have questions about our program are encouraged to review our Information for Prospective students page. Current students who have questions about our course offerings or major and minor requirements are encouraged to review our Resources for Current Students and Frequently Asked Questions pages. Current students are also encouraged to book appointments with our architecture faculty advisors. Prospective Students: FAQ Current Students: Meet with a Faculty Advisor The Space Where it All Starts "The metal double doors click open. I step into 116B Lewisohn Hall, down the main aisle, where rows of desks are housed in an entirely white room: white-painted exposed brick walls, white plaster ceilings, and white linoleum floors. Inside, students and a professor critique one student’s architectural model. Huddled together, they squint, furrow their brows, and tilt their heads to the left and to the right. The way they all lean into the discussion draws me in and makes me want to join. “The desk,” Professor Karen Fairbanks, chair of Barnard and Columbia’s Architecture Department, explains to me in a later interview, “is the beginning of our relationship with our students.” Having taught at Columbia and Barnard for over 21 years, Fairbanks has watched and worked with hundreds of students who, hunched over their desk spaces, toil over models and develop their minds as architects." Read the Full Article Here Barnard and Columbia Architecture’s New Year Show turns campus inside out "Technical drawings, sketches, collages, and 3D models currently line the fourth and fifth floors of Barnard’s Diana Center and Louise McCagg Gallery as Barnard and Columbia Architecture transformed the space into a dynamic hotspot of architectural design for its annual New Year Show. Exhibitions of campus turned inside out, indoor-outdoor pigeon habitats, and wearable architecture are only a small sample of the vast repertoire of student work on display." Read the Full Article Here Faculty News Professor Anooradha Siddiqi Named to Society of Architectural Historians Board February 8, 2021 Professor Ignacio G. Galán Publishes New Research on the Political Significance of Architectural Design in Film During Italy’s Fascist Era July 14, 2021 Professor Nick R. Smith Reviews Two Books on Singapore’s Urban Development July 27, 2021 Read More Dancing with Design Read About B+C | A The Art of Creation Explore senior thesis projects in the arts from the Departments of Theatre, Dance, and Architecture. May 14, 2021 5 Questions With … Architecture Student Shannon Hui ’22 A Reimagining Brooklyn Bridge Competition winner, the architecture and psychology major shares her vision for a New York City landmark. July 30, 2020 Barnard Presents Senior Art Theses: Chairs highlight what makes the College’s various art departments shine We spoke to the director and chairs of each department, who shared what makes the end-of-year shows and performances by students in art, music, and theatre special. May 28, 2019 Follow Us On Instagram Powered by Curator.io Site Footer Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University