Skip to main content Collections Finding Aids Subject Guides Online Exhibits Penn History Penn People Penn People A-Z Penn Notables Digitized Resources Documents & Publications Digital Image Collection PennArchives YouTube Conducting Research Visiting the Archives Guidelines for Using Materials Services and Fees Genealogical Research Classroom Resources Archives Info Special Procedures for Spring 2022 Virtual Tours Other Archives at Penn Archives Staff FAQ Contact the Archives University Records Center Procedures Resources Records Center Staff FAQ Contact the Records Center Home » Archives Info Archives Info The University Archives is the place to learn about Penn history and to do research on primary source materials relating to the University. Founded in 1945 as the University’s official permanent repository for historically significant documents and other materials that reflect the University’s origins as well as the development and the activities and achievements of its officers, staff, faculty, students, alumni, and benefactors. University Archives holdings deal with history of the University of Pennsylvania and of prominent persons associated with the University and also with the history of institutions of higher learning in the United States, American intellectual life, and the Philadelphia community in which the University lives. The University Archives strives to ensure the timeless preservation of these historically significant materials and to make these materials available to researchers. The University Archives is open to the University community and the scholarly public. Frequently Asked Questions Quickly find answers to frequently asked questions. Virtual Tours View video and photo tours of the Archives to get an idea of what our collections contain. Other Archives at Penn If we do not have what you are looking for, other archives at the University of Pennsylvania may be able to help you. Archives Staff Find contact information for individual staff members at the University Archives. Contact the Archives Contact us for appointments, reference requests, reproductions, permissions, and other general questions. University Archives | University of Pennsylvania | 3401 Market Street, Suite 210 | Philadelphia, PA 19104 © 2022 University Archives and Records Center Protocols | Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Facebook Twitter YouTube X Full hours and public access to the University Archives have resumed as of January 24, 2022. Appointments are required. Please consult our Special Procedures for Spring 2022 for details.