Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Special Collections Research Center Pan Am Flight 103/Lockerbie Air Disaster Archives Pan Am Flight 103/Lockerbie Air Disaster Archives Special Collections Research Center Special Collections Research Center Pages Navigation Special Collections Research Center Collections Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections Preservation and Conservation Services Education Programming Page featured image content Dedication of the Place of Remembrance, 22 April 1990. Place of Remembrance Collection. Page main body content Founded in 1990, the Pan Am Flight 103/Lockerbie Air Disaster Archives is part of the Syracuse University Archives in the Special Collections Research Center at Syracuse University Libraries. The mission of the Pan Am Flight 103/Lockerbie Air Disaster Archives is to collect, preserve, and make available for research materials that document the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland on December 21, 1988 and its aftermath, as well as provide a place to personalize and honor the 270 victims of the bombing. The Pan Am Flight 103/Lockerbie Air Disaster Archives comprises: Records pertaining to the disaster and its aftermath, including media coverage and government documents. Materials documenting the lives of the victims including correspondence, photographs, writings and journals, and personal belongings. Documentation of the experiences of surviving friends, families, and witnesses as related to the disaster. Records of Pan Am 103/Lockerbie victims' and families' groups and organizations. Litigation, legislation, and investigative records. Materials in the Pan Am Flight 103/Lockerbie Air Disaster Archives are available for research to all members of the Syracuse University community and the public. However, some collection materials are restricted by donor request or in accordance with federal law. The Pan Am Flight 103/Lockerbie Air Disaster Archives collects materials pertaining to the disaster from the following groups: Victims’ loved ones Syracuse University programs and departments Emergency services personnel and members of the investigative team Members of the Lockerbie community Journalists, authors, and documentarians Other individuals and organizations impacted by or associated with the disaster For inquiries about donating materials to the collections, please contact the Pan Am Flight 103/Lockerbie Air Disaster Archives. On Eagles Wings Please contact pa103archives@syr.edu if you require accessibility accommodations to access this PDF. History of Pan Am Flight 103/Lockerbie Air Disaster Archives Pan Am Flight 103/Lockerbie Air Disaster Archives Exhibitions Pan Am Flight 103/Lockerbie Air Disaster Archives Collections Right aside items Contact Us: Pan Am Flight 103/Lockerbie Air Disaster Archives Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave Bird Library, Room 600 Syracuse University Syracuse, NY 13244-2010 pa103archives@syr.edu 315.443.0632 DONATE Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.