Skip to main content Division of Academic and Student Affairs Army ROTC Wolfpack Battalion Menu Close About Scholarships History Faculty & Staff Join Army ROTC High School Students Current College Students Enlisted Opportunities The Cadet Experience Academics Training Internships Clubs and Teams Parents About About Scholarships History Faculty & Staff Join Army ROTC Join Army ROTC High School Students Current College Students Enlisted Opportunities The Cadet Experience The Cadet Experience Academics Training Internships Clubs and Teams Parents Parents Join the Army ROTC Wolfpack and… - Be transformed into a leader of tomorrow. - Earn a top degree with scholarship assistance. - Live unmatched adventure and gain valuable experience. Join Us at NC State What is Army ROTC? The Army Reserve Officer Training Corps is one of the best leadership courses in the country. It prepares college students to become leaders in the U.S. Army, U.S. Army Reserve and the Army National Guard. Learn More Explore the opportunities Academics Take classes with ROTC and earn a minor in Military Science. Read more Scholarships Earn a scholarship that pays full tuition & fees OR room and board. Read more Training Take part in military training that fits into your academic schedule. Read more Cadet Internships Learn from some of the best leaders in the U.S. Military. Read more Clubs and Teams Being a cadet is about teamwork and building lasting relationships. Read more Simultaneous Membership Join the National Guard or U.S. Army Reserve before you commission. Read more Become part of the most respected and recognized Army ROTC Program in the region. Since its establishment in 1894, NC State’s Army ROTC has graduated over 2,500 Army Officers. Take the First Step Army ROTC Home William Neal Reynolds Coliseum 2411 Dunn Ave., Rm 151C Campus Box 7309 Raleigh, NC 27607-7309 army-rotc@ncsu.edu 919.513.0863 Become a Cadet Be Transformed into a Leader of Tomorrow Go Army – NCSU U.S. Army U.S. Army Reserve Army National Guard Staff Login Website Feedback Website Accessibility Connect With Us Facebook Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.