Jump to content Apply Visit Give Navigation Combating Racism At the UO, as across the country, we have had to face a renewed reckoning around issues of race and inequality. We know the work of creating a more inclusive and antiracist community is a continuous journey. Each month, these pages will highlight some of the work being done and the resources available here on campus. We hope these efforts act not as a token, but as a turnkey to help open doors for those to come. Ron Chew, members of the UO President’s Diversity Advisory Community Council, and guests Diversity council launches series to bring leaders to campus Community organizer Ron Chew addresses leaders and spurs change through art, storytelling By tova Stabin, UO Division of Equity and Inclusion Community organizer and consultant Ron Chew came to campus for two days earlier this month, and for those involved, it marked a major event beyond the scheduled activities. Timed for Asian Desi Pacific Islander Heritage Month, it fulfilled a new initiative of the President’s Diversity Advisory Community Council—the launch of an annual workshop and community engagement series to bring outstanding leaders to campus and expand awareness of the critical strength of diversity. The President’s Diversity Advisory Community Council (PDACC) was created in 2014 by then-UO President Michael Gottfredson and continues today under the auspices of President Michael Schill. Council members assist the university in pursuing its goal of including diversity, equity, and inclusion in its efforts to build its academic and research profile, ensure student access and success, and offer a rich, high-caliber educational experience. Membership in the council includes community members who represent a wide range of interests and links to diverse communities, both from the Eugene area and across the state of Oregon. Over the years, council members have assisted and advised with UO projects and initiatives; served on various committees; assisted with fundraising; provided input and consultation on hiring, resource mobilization and communication issues; and have met with a variety of stakeholders, including student leaders, the Dreamer’s Working Group, UO Strategies Groups, and UO Police. The President’s Diversity Advisory Community Council focuses on: Access and Retention: Assisting the university’s efforts to recruit and retain traditionally underrepresented students, staff, and faculty, including racial and ethnic minorities; women in science, technology, and math careers; people with disabilities; and members of the LGBTQ communities. Educational Partnerships: Assisting the university in developing and maintaining strong relationships as well as partnerships with underrepresented communities, community colleges, K-12 institutions, and business, civic, cultural, social and religious organizations. Innovations in Applied Research and Development: Helping the university develop additional opportunities for innovative research, teaching, and engagement. Communication: Serving as a confidential sounding board for ideas and ambassadors for the university, and assisting with developing new relationships, new opportunities for collaboration and resource mobilization that are mutually beneficial. Allison Davis-WhiteEyes is the current PDACC chair. She is Fielding Graduate University’s vice president for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. Formerly, she was director of community diversity relations for Oregon State University and assistant director of admissions at the UO. Davis-White Eyes believes that “PDACC is about the power of possibilities and how we, as a committed collective of community members and practitioners, wrestle with questions of equity and actively engage the University of Oregon toward taking action.” Over the past year, Davis-White Eyes said the council has addressed campus policing issues, anti-Asian hate, advocated for and supported faculty and student success, and worked to energize networks from around the state and beyond in support of diverse communities. PDACC members were also instrumental in planning and facilitating this year’s campus-wide Courageous Conversations, Davis-White Eyes said. Courageous Conversations is a dialogue series intended to create authentic and civil spaces for discussion around current events centered on social and racial justice. These conversations complement PDACC’s work to reinforce community, build trust, and promote alignment as a foundation for positive campus climate change. During these last years PDACC has witnessed how COVID-19 has particularly affected students from vulnerable and historically underserved populations, reinforcing the critical need for higher education to include diversity, equity, and inclusion issues now and in the future. That awareness, in part, motivated the council to offer an annual workshop and community engagement series—to assist and empower the president, senior leadership, and the campus with a “strength to strength” approach to embolden its commitment and vision for diversity, equity, and inclusion. PDACC hosted Ron Chew May 11-12, timed with UO’s Asian Desi Pacific Islander Heritage Month events. The council worked in partnership with the Division of Equity and Inclusion, the Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art, the UO Multicultural Center and the Asian Desi Pacific Islander Strategies Group. Chew is a renowned consultant and community organizer with expertise in journalism, videography and community-based approaches to museums. He is the head of Chew Communications, served as executive director of the Wing Luke Asian Museum, and was editor of the International Examiner, the oldest and largest nonprofit, pan-Asian Pacific American publication in the Northwest. His memoir, My Unforgotten Seattle, captures the “soul of Seattle” grounded in his Asian American experience. During Chew’s two-day visit, he guided a tour of the JSMA exhibit Remember This: Hung Liu at Trillium; led a workshop for PDACC members; was guest at a reception and book signing of his memoir at the Multicultural Center; and gave a public keynote address (a recording of his keynote address will be made available on the DEI website). “History is built on a fragile foundation of memory, records, and stories . . . Often, especially in communities of color, you don’t always have a sense of where your place is. . . I thought, let’s figure out how we can be of service exploring issues that are responding to a community need. When you do that, something new emerges. It’s magical.” Ron Chew PDACC member Ricky Poon, the assistant dean for Chinese Ministries at the INSTE Global Bible College, was instrumental in bringing Chew to campus. “The invitation of Ron Chew to the University of Oregon presents a unique opportunity for PDACC members to learn from someone whose life and experience reflect the very purpose of PDACC,” Poon said. “More importantly, Ron’s humility, compassion, and collaborative spirit will demonstrate what is possible when we understand and appreciate each other’s un-forgotten histories.” Poon (at left in photo, with Ron Chew), spoke too of the importance of the diverse community that makes up PDACC. “Our lives are defined by our relationships. What we do flows out of who we are,” he said. “The University of Oregon President’s Diversity Community Advisory Council is composed of an amazingly diverse group of community leaders. That is a strength of the group.” As the university community moves ahead, PDACC will continue its important role in diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts. “We are a work in progress,” Davis-WhiteEyes said. “Diversity, equity, and inclusion is a journey; how we move on the journey determines our shared future.” PDACC members Allison Davis-White Eyes Chair, Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, Fielding Graduate University Michael Alexander Retired; former President and CEO of the Urban League of Portland; VP Global Diversity and Inclusion, Portland State University Leslie Garcia Assistant Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, School of Medicine, Oregon Health & Science University Andy Gitelson Executive Director, Oregon Hillel Linda Hamilton, BS ’01 (political science) Founder, Oregon Black Education Foundation and former President, Blacks in Government Kahseuss Jackson, BS ‘03 (business administration), MBA ’09 (general business) Principal Advisor, Celilo Business Solutions Bryan Mercier, BS ’97 (business administration), NW Regional Director, Department of Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs Chris Minnich, BA ’05 (journalism: magazine) CEO, NWEA, a not-for-profit, research and educational services provider serving K-12 students Miles Pendleton President, Eugene/Springfield NAACP Mark Pilkenton, BS ’79 (journalism) Business Consultant; former Nike Director, Global Brand Culture Ricky Poon Assistant Dean for Chinese Ministries, INSTE Global Bible College Carlos Sequeira, C ’06 (initial administrator) DED ’09 (educational leadership) Assistant Superintendent, Lane Education Service District Michelle Singer, BS ’95 (general science), Healthy Native Youth Health Board Project Manager, NW Portland Area Indian Tribal Epidemiology Center Susan Sygall, MS ’82 (leisure studies and services) CEO and Cofounder, Mobility International USA (MIUSA) Joseph Wahl, BA ’80 (Asian studies) Founder and CEO, Wahl and Associates, LLC Ericka Warren, BA ’92 (Asian studies) MBA ’19 (general business), Business Operations Manager, Flowers Family Corporation and President, UO Black Alumni Network Events Remember This: Hung Liu at Trillium May30 Remember This: Hung Liu at TrilliumMay 30 9:00 a.m. Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art (JSMA) Anakú Iwachá: Yakama Legends and Stories May31 Anakú Iwachá: Yakama Legends and StoriesMay 31 2:00 p.m. Many Nations Longhouse Unceded Kinship: Land, Place & People Jun1 Unceded Kinship: Land, Place & PeopleJun 1 Knight Library Get Connected Jun2 Get ConnectedJun 2 12:00 p.m. Erb Memorial Union (EMU) Le Club Cinéma Film Screening Jun2 Le Club Cinéma Film ScreeningJun 2 5:30 p.m. McKenzie Hall Free First Friday at the Museum Jun3 Free First Friday at the MuseumJun 3 10:00 a.m. Museum of Natural and Cultural History Lavender Graduation Jun5 Lavender Graduation Jun 5 12:00 p.m. Erb Memorial Union (EMU) 2022 Black Graduation Ceremony Jun10 2022 Black Graduation CeremonyJun 10 6:00 p.m. Global Scholars Hall Nontraditional Graduation Jun11 Nontraditional Graduation Jun 11 3:00 p.m. Redwood Auditorium Native American Graduation 2022 Jun12 Native American Graduation 2022Jun 12 12:00 p.m. Many Nations Longhouse Queer & Neurodivergent Identity Subgroup Meeting Jun12 Queer & Neurodivergent Identity Subgroup MeetingJun 12 5:00 p.m. LGBTQA3 Office (EMU 022) Sexual Asssault Support Services LGBTQIA+ Group Jun14 Sexual Asssault Support Services LGBTQIA+ Group Jun 14 5:00 p.m. Sexual Assault Support Services (SASS) All Events » News Professor's fellowship will fund film series on LatinX workers Research looks at racism in health care and how to end it Totem Pole Journey will make a stop on the UO campus Take Back the Night returns to campus as an in-person event Traditional artists receive 15 grants through NEA program Activist shares Native and Black experiences for Common Reading All News » Resources Visit these resources—a small sampling of the many on campus—for ways to listen, learn, and act in the fight for social justice Combating Racism Archive Division of Equity and Inclusion Lyllye Reynolds Parker Black Cultural Center Accessible Education Center Multicultural Center Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence Many Nations Longhouse LGBTQIA Student Resources UO Dreamer Resources Bias Education and Response Team Implicit Bias Workshops and Information Center on Diversity and Community Student Equity and Inclusion Demographics Faculty Equity and Inclusion Report Staff Equity and Inclusion Report UO Alumni Culture and Affinity Groups CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar RESOURCES Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb Find People A–Z Index UO Libraries AROUND the O Submit Your Story Idea Subscribe to Email Newsletter About Around the O UO Experts Faculty and Staff Resources Student Resources Around the O 1239 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 Contact Us around@uoregon.edu Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination. Site Navigation Academics & Research Campus News Student Life Workplace Oregon Quarterly Oregon Stories Portland Experts Take Action Apply Visit Give Quick Links For Journalists Student One Stop