Jump to content Apply Visit Give Navigation For Journalists Student One Stop Search form Search Main menu Academics & Research Campus News Student Life Workplace Oregon Quarterly Oregon Stories Portland Experts Chuck Kimmel elected into the National Academy of Sciences May 17, 2022 - 10:48am Twitter Facebook UO biologist Charles (Chuck) Kimmel, a pioneer in using zebrafish to study developmental mechanisms, has been elected into the National Academy of Sciences. A professor emeritus and member of the UO’s Institute of Neuroscience, Kimmel’s work has encompassed cell lineage specification, gastrulation, hindbrain segmentation, and craniofacial patterning and evolution. Kimmel helped advance the use of zebrafish as a model organism, beginning with his first fish paper on the Mauthner neuron in 1981. Kimmel invented cell lineage tracing methods for zebrafish which have become widely adopted. He has been recognized by his peers as one of the leading developmental biologists working with any organism, having been elected President of the Society for Developmental Biology in 1993 and awarded the Conkin Medal for lifetime achievement in Developmental Biology in 2000. Research Briefs COVID-19 Updates and Information Research Briefs October grants include six from the U.S. Department of Education All Research Briefs There are currently no events happening. About Around the O Around the O is the UO’s go-to place for information about the university, its people and the difference they make in Oregon and around the world. We bring stories of the university’s groundbreaking research and world-class faculty and students to the broadest possible audience, while also serving as the hub for news, announcements and information of interest to the campus community. Submit Your Story Idea CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar RESOURCES Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb Find People A–Z Index UO Libraries AROUND the O Submit Your Story Idea Subscribe to Email Newsletter About Around the O UO Experts Faculty and Staff Resources Student Resources Around the O 1239 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 Contact Us around@uoregon.edu Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination. Site Navigation Academics & Research Campus News Student Life Workplace Oregon Quarterly Oregon Stories Portland Experts Take Action Apply Visit Give Quick Links For Journalists Student One Stop