Jump to content Apply Visit Give Navigation Sharing Stories by Kyle Santos Storyteller; Cultural Advocate; Peer Advising Coordinator, Office of Academic Advising In the month of May, we celebrate Asian, Desi, Pacific Islander Heritage Month, and on the islands of Hawai'i, we say Hau'oli Lā Mei (Happy May Day). As a mixed-plate Pacific Islander who moved to Oregon for my undergraduate journey and now as a professional academic advisor, I found community by getting connected and grounded by things and the people that were around me. Yes, it was challenging finding them at first. But I followed where the food was. From there, I met many individuals who came from all walks of life. People that poured into me, made memories with, and shared plenty of stories. Ultimately, each individual encouraged and challenged me to discover pieces of myself that made me whole. That made me feel that I am MORE than ENOUGH to represent my family, those who came before me, and our beautiful diverse ADPI community. With this power, I am able to empower others to own and share their stories through the lens of their identities and voices. At the Pacific Islander Student Alliance (PISA) conference, I was reminded that where we are raised matters. Where we once belonged matters. Where we reside matters. And where we are going matters. Our ADPI culture and practices provide narratives that remind the UO community and the world of the importance of family, food, love, culture, and community building. A new challenge is in front of us. There’s so much happening in our world. From adjusting our lives for a better “normal” to hearing and experiencing the continued levels of oppression and injustices that fall upon historically excluded populations. What can WE do to help share a little bit of Aloha (love/compassion) with one another while validating individuals’ feelings, thoughts, and experiences through these challenging and ever-changing times? Let us encourage one another to hold space and share our stories so that we can build an even stronger community. It takes all of us—it takes a village. Many Countries, Many Languages, Many Experiences: Diversity abounds in the Asian Desi Pacific Island Community By Tuong Vu, Professor and Head, Department of Political Science As a Vietnamese refugee, I came to Oregon in 2008 when offered a job at the University of Oregon. Prior to coming to Oregon, I have lived in Minnesota, New Jersey, Massachusetts, and California. Compared to those states, Oregon has fewer Asian Desi Pacific Island Americans (and Vietnamese Americans in particular). The statistics say we are the fastest growing group in the state. In this respect, Oregon mirrors the nation, so perhaps one day our community will be as large as in other states. Another encouraging development is the increasing diversity of our community. Asian Desi Pacific Island Americans are perhaps the most diverse minority group in the US. Even though it may be hard for non-Asians to distinguish among us, we came from more than a dozen different countries, speak just as many different languages, and include followers of all the major world religions. Actually, many of us did not think of ourselves as “Asians” until we arrived in America. We also came to America under very different circumstances and chose Oregon for different reasons. Unlike Chinese and Japanese immigrants who were drawn to the state in the 1880s to work on farms, fish canneries, lumber mills, and railroad yards, Southeast Asian refugees in the 1970s and 1980s fleeing war and communism did not have much of a choice. If coming to Oregon, they tended to concentrate in Portland and its suburbs where public transportation was well-developed and jobs in the service sector were available. Eugene has not attracted as many Asians as other Oregonian towns although the university has seen rapidly rising numbers of foreign students from Asian countries, especially China, India, and Vietnam. I teach several courses on Asian politics, which I hope has benefited Oregonian students. I’m proud to have established the US-Vietnam Research Center in 2019 based at the University of Oregon. At the center, we sponsor research and currently publishing three books that seek to change American understanding of Vietnamese and Vietnamese American history. Asian and Pacific American Student Association A Passion for Creativity and Design by Bella Dentler, SOJC, Advertising, Class of 2023 As a first-generation Filipino student, I was always pushed by my family to complete a degree in higher education because I had the means and opportunity. When I chose my major, advertising, it was a shock to my family because it was not in the medical field. I knew though that I needed to follow my passion for creativity and design. The University of Oregon has provided me with the community and resources to further my career. At the School of Journalism and Communication, I am a director of Taking Up Space (TUS), a BIPOC advertising club focused on creating passion projects and networking with like-minded people. This club was created to bridge the knowledge gap of industry standards and biases, particularly if you are the first in your family to pursue a creative career. TUS also works to create industry ready work and bring real representation to the white saturated industry. Along with my academics, I hold a position at the Division of Equity and Inclusion as a design, marketing, and social media student staff member. While getting to focus on my passion for creating, I also get to learn more about the diversity on our campus. I always have the 411 on the latest events because I probably made the social posts for them. This job has given me so much insight into the real diversity on campus by getting to bring more attention to these courageous efforts! I know that coming to the University of Oregon has been the best decision because of how much support I find here. It is seen through my Diversity Excellence Scholarship all the way to my professors at the School of Journalism and Communication. I am so grateful for my community. Alumni Madi Nguyen-Acosta Major: ’21 Public Relations School of Journalism and Communication Madi Nguyen-Acosta ’21, School of Journalism and Communication, is a recipient of the Multicultural Advertising Internship Program (MAIP) fellowship and the diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) specialist for Sony Music Entertainment. Her role specializes in event planning and providing DEI strategic guidance to the business. Nguyen-Acosta’s first insight into the world of DEI was through her position as the programming and events student-lead at the UO Multicultural Center. She dove deeper into the roots of DEI and learned how it manifests in the corporate world through her honors thesis. Learn more in the story: Alumni Profile: How 2021 grad Madilyne Nguyen-Acosta’s passion for culture fueled her work as a DEI specialist. 10.7% Undergraduate students who identify as Asian/Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander (winter 2022) 12 ADPI student groups 350+ Korean paintings, calligraphy, ceramics, metalwork, textiles, furniture, prints, and photographs at Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art COVID-19 Impact on the South Asian immigrant community by Anna Nguyen, Economics, Political Science, Class of 2022 Aakanksha Lahoti, who is a UO doctoral student in counseling psychology, was recently interviewed by Anna Nguyen. Lahoti is conducting research on the socioemotional impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the South Asian Indian population in North America to better understand how they experience pandemic-related distress. The study will also investigate the impact of COVID-19 travel bans and transnational bereavement in this population. Learn More About Aakanksha Lahoti's Research ADPI Heritage Month 2022: What We Can Learn from the Theory of Racial Triangulation by Vice President for Equity and Inclusion, Yvette Alex-Assensoh Two years ago, ”Stop Asian Hate” emerged as a rallying cry and social media hashtag in response to the spike in anti-Asian hate crimes in the United States. Not only have the hate crimes continued since, but national discussions questioning what people are actually doing to stop the hate crimes, besides talking about them, have become an annual tradition ironically commemorating the creation of the hashtag. People in ADPI communities throughout the country are understandably concerned for their safety and frustrated by the lack of substantive action. Clearly, the work must go deeper... Read the Full ADPI Story Longevity: The Archaeology of a Chinese Business in Eugene's Market District UO’s Museum of Natural and Cultural History’s recent excavations archaeologists Jon Krier, Marlene Jampolsky, and Chris Ruiz will discuss how an early twentieth century Chinese restaurant and gift store in downtown Eugene successfully operated amidst racist laws and a predominantly Euro-American community. Event Detalis The 47th Annual Lu’au UO Hui ‘O Hawai’i Lūu’au 2022-Ke Alaua May 21, 2022 McArthur Court UO Hui ‘O Hawai’i will present their 47th Annual Lū’au-“Ke Alaula” (The Light of Daybreak). A lū’au is a celebration that embraces the Hawaiian culture and the company of one another that Hui ‘O Hawai’i invites you to experience. All are welcome to this event that includes live music, authentic Hawaiian food, and a program featuring traditional Hawaiian dances. This is the first in-person Lū’au in two years and the student organization hopes that this Lū’au will be a symbol of the light that is to come in the future. Find Out More About the Lū’au Uso: Asian, Desi and Pacific Islander (ADPI) Cultural Connections Uso is a word derived from the Samoan language and literally translates to mean brother or sister (used by the same gender only) but more universally translates to mean a relative, associate, colleague, or other close relationship. This relationship in Pacific Island cultures is one that is fostered and strengthened by the ‘ohana or family unit. We invite everyone in the UO community into our home (space) and ‘ohana (family) to connect with each other, support each other and be culturally enriched! Uso not only creates a space for ADPI culture to thrive but aims to provide students with holistic wraparound services such as academic advising, career services, and even mental health services from ADPI perspectives, customs, history and traditions. – Aunty Kris Learn more about ADPI Cultural Connections Remember This: Hung Liu at Trillium, is on view through August 2022 in the JSMA’s Barker and Soreng galleries. Mother, Daughter and River, 2016 Mixed media, 23 x 41 inches All the Ancestors, 2011 Mixed-media triptych, 60 x 100 inches In this exhibition, renowned contemporary Chinese American artist Hung Liu explored subjects ranging from portraits to landscapes to still life images and reflects upon history, memory, tradition, migration, and social justice. Characterized by layers of luminous color, drips, and Zen ensō-like circles that mark the passage of time, Liu focused with insight and compassion on “the forgotten” – elevating and imparting dignity and individuality on the poor, the afflicted, and the displaced, women and children, prostitutes and prisoners. Raised at a time when most photographs were destroyed for political reasons, Liu came to view such images as precious keepsakes, and uses historic photos as inspiration, combining (largely anonymous) figures with evocative backgrounds punctuated with traditional Chinese motifs. Virtual Tour Gallery Guide The Asian, Desi, and Pacific Islander Strategies Group The ADPI Strategies Group exists as a space for faculty, staff, and students to nurture community relationships through conversations about shared cultural experiences. Through monthly meetings, the group engages in and advocates for issues related to the diaspora of ADPI communities at the University of Oregon. Prior to the pandemic, members of this group also held luncheons at neighborhood restaurants to strengthen community ties while supporting local ADPI-owned businesses in Eugene. Asian, Desi, and Pacific Islander Strategies Group Ahiru Daiko Asian and Pacific American Student Union Chinese Students and Scholars Association Hong Kong Student Association Hui ‘O Hawai’i International Student Association Japanese Student Organization Kalapu Pasifika Korean Student Association South Asian Cultural Alliance (formerly SIS) Taiwanese Student Association Vietnamese Student Association Events Remember This: Hung Liu at Trillium May30 Remember This: Hung Liu at TrilliumMay 30 9:00 a.m. Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art (JSMA) All Events » Academics: Asian Studies Asian Studies Resource Guide – UO Libraries Center for Asian and Pacific Studies Courses in Asian History e-Asia Digital Library East Asian Languages and Literatures East Asian Studies Southeast Asian Archaeology Lab Southeast Asian Studies UO Library Asian Collection Community Resources: Asian American Council of Oregon Asian Pacific American Labor Alliance, Oregon Chapter Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon (APANO) Chinese American Benevolent Association (CABA) Council of Filipino American Associations (CFAA) DisOrient Asian American Film Festival of Oregon Eugene Chinese Immersion School Eugene-Kathmandu Sister City Association Eugene Taiko Golden Kỳ Lân Youth Lion Dance of Lane County Hãlau Hula o Nã Pua o Hawai‘i Nei Japanese American Association of Oregon The Korean American Coalition (KAC) Northwest China Council Oregon Asian Celebration Philippine American Association (PAA) of Eugene/Springfield and Vicinity Taiwanese Association of Eugene (TAE) Waka Daiko Eugene-Springfield Yujin Gakuen Japanese Immersion School Related Stories UO celebrates Asian Pacific American Heritage Month in May Asian Desi Pacific Island American Heritage Month 2021 All Stories » CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar RESOURCES Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb Find People A–Z Index UO Libraries AROUND the O Submit Your Story Idea Subscribe to Email Newsletter About Around the O UO Experts Faculty and Staff Resources Student Resources Around the O 1239 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 Contact Us around@uoregon.edu Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination. Site Navigation Academics & Research Campus News Student Life Workplace Oregon Quarterly Oregon Stories Portland Experts Take Action Apply Visit Give Quick Links For Journalists Student One Stop