Skip to main content Florida State University | College of Fine Arts PROGRAMS Department of Art Department of Art Education Department of Art History Department of Interior Architecture and Design School of Dance School of Theatre Museum of Fine Arts Facility for Arts Research FSU/Asolo Conservatory for Actor Training Maggie Allesee National Center for Choreography EVENTS NEWS TICKETS APPLY GIVE This is your Donation message. Log In Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Programs Events News Tickets Toggle navigation About Undergraduate Programs Graduate Program About the College of Fine Arts Resources Facilities Concentrations Foundations Ceramics Digital Media Painting and Drawing Photography Printmaking Sculpture in the Expanded Field People Faculty Adjunct Instructors College Support Art Office Staff Advisors Technicians and Lab Managers In Memory News News Subscribe to Bi-Weekly Art Newsletter Events FAR Exhibitions Visiting Artists Working Method Contemporary Gallery (CAB) Phyllis Straus Gallery (CAB) Community Engagement Opportunities Calls for Entries Employment Opportunities Internship Experiences Scholarships & Awards Internship Opportunities Connect Contact Information Make a Gift Submit News Visitor Information About Undergraduate Programs Graduate Program About the College of Fine Arts Resources Facilities Concentrations Foundations Ceramics Digital Media Painting and Drawing Photography Printmaking Sculpture in the Expanded Field People Faculty Adjunct Instructors College Support Art Office Staff Advisors Technicians and Lab Managers In Memory News News Subscribe to Bi-Weekly Art Newsletter Events FAR Exhibitions Visiting Artists Working Method Contemporary Gallery (CAB) Phyllis Straus Gallery (CAB) Community Engagement Opportunities Calls for Entries Employment Opportunities Internship Experiences Scholarships & Awards Internship Opportunities Connect Contact Information Make a Gift Submit News Visitor Information X × Art News May 30, 2022 Venvi Art Gallery presents upcoming solo show by Art Al … Venvi Art Gallery, located at 2901 E. Park Ave, Tallahassee, FL. presents an upcoming solo show by Art Alum Bella Falbo, from June 3 thru July 28. There will be an opening reception on June 3, from 5pm – 8pm. READ MORE » May 27, 2022 Art Alumni among finalists for Pathways 2022: The Carlo … We are so proud to announce that Pathways 2022: The Carlos Malamud Prize Exhibition at UCF Art Gallery is featuring three FSU Art Alumni this year. Among the finalists are MFA ’21 April Webb, MFA ’20 Channing Gray and BFA ’13 Eric Odina. The exhibition runs from May 19 thru September 2, 2022. The UCF Art Gallery is located at 12400 Aquarius Agora Dr., Visual Arts Building (VAB) 140, Orlando, FL 32816-1342. READ MORE » May 18, 2022 Art Fighting Alzheimer’s: Associate Professor Keith R … Associate Professor of Digital Arts Keith Roberson has teamed up with faculty and staff members from the College of Communication and Information, College of Medicine and FSU Facilities to develop a project known as DeepCare, intended to improve the quality of life for those at risk for Alzheimer’s Disease READ MORE » Art Alum Brittany M. Watkins named South Carolina Fello … South Arts has named nine visual artists as 2022 State Fellows, part of the Southern Prize and State Fellowships program. Each fellowship – one per state in the South Arts region of AL, FL, GA, KY, LA, MS, NC, SC, and TN – comes with a cash award of $5,000 and inclusion in an exhibition at the Bo Bartlett Center in Columbus, Georgia, from September 2 – December 10, 2022, before touring to additional locations across the region. READ MORE » April 22, 2022 Professor Garcia-Roig has show at The Painting Center, … Lilian Garcia Roig’s nature-themed works in “Homage to Viñales”, negotiate the complex propositions of sense of place and belonging which so influence the construction of her personal identity. As a Cuban-born American who immigrated to Texas as a child, the Cuban landscape was both alien and deeply personal to Garcia-Roig. READ MORE » April 19, 2022 Art Alum Zoe Charlton among acclaimed artists in exhibi … The Mississippi Museum of Art presents the exhibition “A Movement in Every Direction: Legacies of the Great Migration” which explores the impact the Great Migration had on American families, communities, and society at large, as well as its continuing influence on social and cultural life in the United States today. READ MORE » More News » Creativity and Innovation The Department of Art at FSU is a research driven community of students and faculty dedicated to the dynamic interrelationship of ideas, processes and practices. Programs » News » We are pleased to announce 3 New Departmental Scholarships! Contact us to learn more. Bachelor of Arts Studio Art Bachelor of Fine Arts Studio Art Master of Fine Arts Studio Art Specialized Programs Bachelor of Arts Studio Art Bachelor of Fine Arts Studio Art Master of Fine Arts Studio Art Specialized Programs Exhibitions Faculty and Staff Visiting Artists FAR Campaign Schedule a Tour Visitor Information Subscribe Contact Come See What We're All About Schedule a Tour Visitor Information Subscribe Contact News and Events Venvi Art Gallery presents upcoming solo show by Art Al … May 30, 2022 Art Alumni among finalists for Pathways 2022: The Carlo … May 27, 2022 Art Fighting Alzheimer’s: Associate Professor Keith R … May 18, 2022 Art Alum Brittany M. Watkins named South Carolina Fello … Professor Garcia-Roig has show at The Painting Center, … April 22, 2022 More News » Art Fighting Alzheimer’s: Associate Professor Keith R … May 18, 2022 Associate Professor of Digital Arts Keith Roberson has teamed up with faculty and staff members from the College of Communication and Information, College of Medicine and FSU Facilities to develop a project known as DeepCare, intended to improve the quality of life for those... Read More More Events » Toggle navigation About Undergraduate Programs Graduate Program About the College of Fine Arts Resources Facilities Concentrations Foundations Ceramics Digital Media Painting and Drawing Photography Printmaking Sculpture in the Expanded Field People Faculty Adjunct Instructors College Support Art Office Staff Advisors Technicians and Lab Managers In Memory News News Subscribe to Bi-Weekly Art Newsletter Events FAR Exhibitions Visiting Artists Working Method Contemporary Gallery (CAB) Phyllis Straus Gallery (CAB) Community Engagement Opportunities Calls for Entries Employment Opportunities Internship Experiences Scholarships & Awards Internship Opportunities Connect Contact Information Make a Gift Submit News Visitor Information Art Social Media Report web issues Newsletter The Department of Art distributes a weekly newsletter filled with exciting updates. Be sure to subscribe now to stay up to date. English Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Dutch English French German Italian Portuguese Russian Spanish © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 FSU Social Media: This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT Name First Last Email Department or Program of Interest Request Information on All Programs Department of Interest* Department of ArtDepartment of Art EducationDepartment of Art HistoryDepartment of Interior Architecture and DesignSchool of DanceSchool of TheatreUnsure / All Programs Start an Application Request Information No Thanks - I just want to learn more Additional Comments Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ CLOSE Name First Last Email Department or Program of Interest Request Information on All Programs Department of Interest* Department of ArtDepartment of Art EducationDepartment of Art HistoryDepartment of Interior Architecture and DesignSchool of DanceSchool of TheatreUnsure / All Programs Start an Application Request Information No Thanks - I just want to learn more Additional Comments Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ CLOSE X X