Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Department of Visual Art myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Academics Select to follow link Studio and Academic Areas Select to follow link Foundations Ceramics Expanded Media Metalsmithing/Jewelry Painting/Drawing Printmaking Sculpture Textiles/Fibers Visual Art Education Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Degrees Academic Advising Study Abroad Scholarships & Funding Opportunities Admission Select to follow link Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions People Select to follow link Faculty and Staff Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Visiting Artists Select to follow link Visiting Artists Artists-in-Residence Alumni Resources Select to follow link Edgar Heap of Birds Family Gallery ICRC The Common Shop and VAST Lab Opportunities Contact Jobs Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Department of Visual Art Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Preparing and Inspiring Artist Scholars for Careers in Visual Art Small School. Big University. In the Department of Visual Art, you get the best of both worlds. You will work side by side with world-class, practicing artists. Small classes provide time for directed and individual instruction and space for developing big ideas. You can explore all seven studio areas to create an education as individual as you are. At a Glance World-class Instruction The Department of Visual Art provides students with the technical skill and cultural awareness essential to the careers of professional artists, scholars, teachers or administrators. Seminars on specialized topics, a strong visiting artist schedule, trips to major cities, and study abroad possibilities all enrich students studying Visual Art at the University of Kansas. Academics Engaged Faculty and Staff The faculty and staff of the Department of Visual Art is comprised of internationally recognized artists and scholars with interests that span a broad range of media and disciplines. Dedicated to educating the next generation of artists, award-winning teachers prioritize mentorship, offering students individual attention and small class sizes. Faculty and Staff Excellent Facilities Visual Art students have access to outstanding facilities and close mentoring from the Visual Art faculty. Coursework includes practice, discussion and critiques with faculty, advisors, and visiting artists. Cross discipline investigations are strongly encouraged and many courses are team-taught. Exhibition and installation spaces are readily available throughout the community of Lawrence and Kansas City. Resources and Facilities Undergraduate Studies The Visual Art undergraduate degrees allow students to design an academic experience tailored to their interests and goals. By choosing and combining courses from across a variety of studio areas, students direct their own educational path. Undergraduate Program Graduate Studies The MFA program is interdisciplinary in it's approach, and our grads go on to do amazing things in the studio and in the classroom. Work with all faculty in the program among seven studio areas and use the resources, archives, scholars and facilities available at our comprehensive research university. Graduate Program Studio and Academic Areas Foundations Ceramics Expanded Media Metalsmithing/Jewelry Painting/Drawing Printmaking Sculpture Textiles/Fibers Visual Art Education Strong Artist Community Faculty and staff in the program exhibit their work all over the world, and are present in important collections around the world. Students are also supported by a strong Artist-in-Residence, Visiting Artist, and Visiting Critic program. These contacts go on to become peers and resources long after graduation. Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Artists-in-Residence Artists-in-Residence Visiting Artists Visiting Artists Subscribe to our newsletter Stay up-to-date with Visual Art Our weekly newsletter is filled with artist profiles, opportunities for students and alumni, and the latest news from the Department of Visual Art. Subscribe Upcoming Events See all events Chalmers Hall 1467 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 29 visualart@ku.edu 785-864-4042 facebook instagram twitter linkedin Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Resources Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.