Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Main College College News About the Art Department Facilities Chair and Admins Contact the Department Tours Programs Undergraduate Programs Art History Ceramics + Glass + Sculpture Graphic Design + Multimedia Painting + Drawing Photography Printmaking Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Program Graduate Requirements MFA Application Portal MFA Application Documents Graduate School Homepage Graduate Admissions Arts +Sciences Home University of Miami Homepage People Faculty Teaching Assistants Gallery Art Department Galleries Lowe Museum Online Gallery Exhibitions New Works: UMFA 2021 Bachelor of Fine Arts Exhibition Dec 2021 2021 Faculty Exhibition 2020 Faculty Exhibition 2021 Incoming Graduate Student Exhibition Archives Artist Lectures Make a Gift to University/Art Department Art Department Fund About the Art Department Programs People Gallery Exhibitions Make a Gift to University/Art Department Search About the Art Department Facilities Chair and Admins Contact the Department Tours Programs Undergraduate Programs Art History Ceramics + Glass + Sculpture Graphic Design + Multimedia Painting + Drawing Photography Printmaking Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Program Graduate Requirements MFA Application Portal MFA Application Documents Graduate School Homepage Graduate Admissions Arts +Sciences Home University of Miami Homepage People Faculty Teaching Assistants Gallery Art Department Galleries Lowe Museum Online Gallery Exhibitions New Works: UMFA 2021 Bachelor of Fine Arts Exhibition Dec 2021 2021 Faculty Exhibition 2020 Faculty Exhibition 2021 Incoming Graduate Student Exhibition Archives Artist Lectures Make a Gift to University/Art Department Art Department Fund More Sites Main College College News Gallery About Us Programs People Gallery Exhibitions Make a Gift Home Gallery AAA University of Miami Art Galleries Wynwood Art District: UM Gallery The University of Miami off-campus gallery is located inside the Wynwood Building, in the historic Wynwood Art District. UM originally moved to Wynwood in 2007, and our urban gallery showcases the work of UM art and art history students, faculty members, alumni, and featured artists. The University of Miami Gallery frequently hosts openings, artist talks, and lectures, so please check our calendar for updates. The University of Miami Gallery is located at 2750 NW 3rd Avenue, Suite 4, near downtown Miami. A full schedule of events and exhibitions can be viewed HERE. Gallery hours are Wednesday through Friday, 10 am to 4 pm. *Hours are subject to change; please call 305-284-3161 to confirm times. Appointments and private tours are available upon request. For more information about the gallery or exhibitions, contact Milly Cardoso, Gallery Director, at m.cardoso1@miami.edu. To submit an exhibition proposal, please contact the Department of Art and Art History by telephone at 305-284-3161, or email m.cardoso1@miami.edu. We look forward to your visit! Coral Gables Campus: Rainbow Gallery Our smaller, on-campus Rainbow Gallery is located inside the Rainbow Building at 1540 Levante Avenue, University of Miami. The Rainbow Gallery is used by faculty and students as a creative work place, as a space for M.F.A. critiques and reviews, and also hosts our annual B.F.A. student exhibition. To request the use of this space, please contact Milly Cardoso at m.cardoso1@miami.edu. Exhibition and Event Schedule Please see the exhibitions and news pages for more detailed information about scheduled exhibitions and events. Additional information is also available on the following pages: College of Arts and Sciences Calendar University of Miami Calendar University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Art & Art History 1540 Levante Avenue Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2542 305-284-2542 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices