Skip to main content Florida State University | College of Fine Arts PROGRAMS Department of Art Department of Art Education Department of Art History Department of Interior Architecture and Design School of Dance School of Theatre Museum of Fine Arts Facility for Arts Research FSU/Asolo Conservatory for Actor Training Maggie Allesee National Center for Choreography EVENTS NEWS TICKETS APPLY GIVE This is your Donation message. Log In Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Programs Events News Tickets Toggle navigation Prospective Students Admissions Assistantships & Funding Programs Camps Art Education Art Therapy Arts Administration Museum Education and Visitor-Centered Curation (EC) Affiliated Student Organizations People Faculty & Staff Profiles Alumni Visiting Scholars College Faculty / Staff Students Student Spotlight News / Events Press Releases Submit News News Events Awards & Achievements Journal of Art for Life (JAfL) Department Newsletter College Newsletter Giving How to Give Recent Gifts Development Staff Allies4Art Resources Colors and Typography Bylaws Room Calendar Financial Support Connect Site Map Connect Department Travel Request Form Visitor Information Prospective Students Admissions Assistantships & Funding Programs Camps Art Education Art Therapy Arts Administration Museum Education and Visitor-Centered Curation (EC) Affiliated Student Organizations People Faculty & Staff Profiles Alumni Visiting Scholars College Faculty / Staff Students Student Spotlight News / Events Press Releases Submit News News Events Awards & Achievements Journal of Art for Life (JAfL) Department Newsletter College Newsletter Giving How to Give Recent Gifts Development Staff Allies4Art Resources Colors and Typography Bylaws Room Calendar Financial Support Connect Site Map Connect Department Travel Request Form Visitor Information X × Art Education News May 18, 2022 FSU prof and therapist David Gussak explores connection … Article courtesy of the Tallahassee Democrat | Written by Marina Brown Dr. David Gussak, Professor of Art Therapy, has written “The Frenzied Dance of Art and Violence.” Florida State University READ MORE » October 26, 2021 FSU Provost Sally McRorie to return to the faculty Story Courtesy of FSU News, by Amy Farnum-Patronis Florida State University Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs Sally McRorie Florida State University Provost and Executive Vice President for READ MORE » October 14, 2021 FSU, Florida Department of Corrections expand Art Thera … “Mindful Watercolor” – This image represents an success-driven process, encouraging clients to begin painting without a plan or intention, but rather remain present with their creation as they watch the READ MORE » August 10, 2021 Dr. Antonio Cuyler presents webinar hosted by the Arts … On Aug. 12 at 2 p.m., Dr. Antonio Cuyler, Director of the MA Program and Associate Professor of Arts Administration, will lead a Zoom webinar “Access, Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (ADEI) in Cultural Organizations” hosted by the Arts Council of Hillsborough County. READ MORE » July 26, 2021 College Leadership Council premieres 2021 SIX Magazine The College Leadership Council (CLC) was founded in 2010 to promote collaboration and communication between students across the College of Fine Arts. Made up of graduate and undergraduate representatives from READ MORE » July 21, 2021 Director of Art Therapy sends out call for proposals fo … Dr. Barbara Parker-Bell, Associate Professor and Director of the Art Therapy, within the Department of Art Education at Florida State University, has announced the recent launch of “The Learning from READ MORE » More News » Art for Life We empower people to empower people through the arts. Offering graduate degrees in Arts Administration, Art Education, Art Therapy, Museum Education and Visitor-Centered Curation (EC). Programs » Contact Us » News » Apply Now » Arts Admin Teaches the theory and practice of socially responsible arts administration. Art Education Aides students in developing theory, practice and research in art education Art Therapy Fosters culturally sensitive graduates who promote personal and community wellness. EC Informed by an adapted feminist systems approach we prepare students to be Edu-Curators. Arts Administration Art Education Art Therapy EC Faculty and Staff » Student Spotlight » Contact » Art For Life With over a 70 year history, the Department of Art Education believes in the intrinsic value of art as a catalyst for social change. Not only can art promote the development of the individual but serves to enrich and enliven the world around us. As a comprehensive education and research program, we only offer graduate level degrees. We find this provides a rigorous and individualized learning experience as students work towards one of our 9 specialized degree options. At Florida State University, we empower people to empower people through art. Learn More » STUDENT RETENTION RATES 2018-2020: 89.90% Come See What We're All About Schedule a Tour Degree Options The Arts at FSU Apply Today What's Happening on Campus FSU prof and therapist David Gussak explores connection … May 18, 2022 FSU Provost Sally McRorie to return to the faculty October 26, 2021 FSU, Florida Department of Corrections expand Art Thera … October 14, 2021 Dr. Antonio Cuyler presents webinar hosted by the Arts … August 10, 2021 College Leadership Council premieres 2021 SIX Magazine July 26, 2021 More News » FSU prof and therapist David Gussak explores connection … May 18, 2022 Article courtesy of the Tallahassee Democrat | Written by Marina Brown Dr. David Gussak, Professor of Art Therapy, has written “The Frenzied Dance of Art and Violence.” Florida State University Read More More Events » Toggle navigation Prospective Students Admissions Assistantships & Funding Programs Camps Art Education Art Therapy Arts Administration Museum Education and Visitor-Centered Curation (EC) Affiliated Student Organizations People Faculty & Staff Profiles Alumni Visiting Scholars College Faculty / Staff Students Student Spotlight News / Events Press Releases Submit News News Events Awards & Achievements Journal of Art for Life (JAfL) Department Newsletter College Newsletter Giving How to Give Recent Gifts Development Staff Allies4Art Resources Colors and Typography Bylaws Room Calendar Financial Support Connect Site Map Connect Department Travel Request Form Visitor Information CFA Social Media Report web issues Newsletter The College of Fine Arts proudly produces the monthly e-newsletter, "News Around the College", which showcases each department's events and opportunities. English Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Dutch English French German Italian Portuguese Russian Spanish © 2022 Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 FSU Social Media: This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT Name First Last Email Department or Program of Interest Request Information on All Programs Department of Interest* Department of ArtDepartment of Art EducationDepartment of Art HistoryDepartment of Interior Architecture and DesignSchool of DanceSchool of TheatreUnsure / All Programs Start an Application Request Information No Thanks - I just want to learn more Additional Comments CAPTCHA Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ CLOSE Name First Last Email Department or Program of Interest Request Information on All Programs Department of Interest* Department of ArtDepartment of Art EducationDepartment of Art HistoryDepartment of Interior Architecture and DesignSchool of DanceSchool of TheatreUnsure / All Programs Start an Application Request Information No Thanks - I just want to learn more Additional Comments CAPTCHA Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ X