Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Art History Department of Art History Contact Us Facebook Art.History@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Back to Top Nav Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Elizabeth A. Kassler-Taub Academic Appointments Assistant Professor of Art History Professor Kassler-Taub is a specialist in early modern art, architecture, and urbanism, with a focus on sixteenth- and seventeenth-century Italy. Her teaching and research interests include: the transcultural exchange of artistic and architectural knowledge in the Mediterranean; Spanish colonialism and urban intervention in southern Italy and the Americas; and the theory and historiography of early modern globalism. Kassler-Taub’s current book project, Elastic Empire: Architecture, Urbanism, and Identity in Early Modern Palermo, explores the architectural and urban development of early modern Palermo during the first centuries of Spanish viceregal rule. She is also at work on a co-edited volume of scholarly essays and curatorial reflections with Inderbir Singh Riar (Azrieli School of Architecture & Urbanism, Carleton University) on architectural monumentality from a global and transhistorical perspective, titled Monumentality: Histories and Ideologies. In 2023, Kassler-Taub will be a Member of the School of Historical Studies at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, NJ. In 2021, she was a Visiting Scholar in the Sawyer Seminar "Transmission, Containment, Transformation: A Comparative Approach to Architecture and Contagion in Early Modern Cities" at Penn State, sponsored by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. Her work was also recently supported by a Jane L. Keddy Memorial Fellowship from the John Carter Brown Library at Brown University (2021), a RSA-Samuel H. Kress Research Fellowship in Renaissance Art History from the Renaissance Society of America (2021), and a Postdoctoral Fellowship at the Getty Research Institute (2018-19). + View more Contact Elizabeth.A.Kassler-Taub@Dartmouth.edu 207 Carpenter Hall HB 6033 Department(s) Art History, Medieval and Renaissance Studies Education A.B. Princeton University M.A. Harvard University Ph. D. Harvard University Areas of Expertise early modern art and architecture / urban planning / global art history / colonialism and empire / transcultural exchange Selected Publications “Unlearning Palermo’s Architectural History,” in “Roundtable: Constructing Race and Architecture (1400-1800),” Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians 80, n. 3 (September 2021): 270-73. “Inconvenient Globalism: Method Making at the Margins of Art History,” Modern Philology 119, n. 1 (August 2021), Multiplicities: Recasting the Early Modern Global, pp. 33-60. “Building with Water: The Rise of the Island-City in the Early Modern Mediterranean,” Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians 78, n. 2 (2019), pp. 145-66. “Writing the body: Andrea del Verrocchio’s Measured Drawing of a Horse,” Word & Image 37, n. 2 (2019), pp. 97-111. Courses Art History 2: Introduction to the History of Art II Art History 27.01: The Ideal City Art History 27.02: Living Stone: Sculpture in Early Modern Italy Art History 27.03: Building Boom: Architecture and Urbanism in Early Modern Italy Art History 28.01: The Global Renaissance Art History 28.08: Italian Art from Renaissance to Baroque: Crisis and Invention Art History 28.09: Art on the Move: Renaissance Italy and the Islamic World ARTH 81.03: Advanced Seminar: The Viral Image: Early Modern Prints Art History 89.05: Senior Seminar in Art Historical Theory and Method + View more Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Art History Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback