Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Art History Department of Art History Contact Us Facebook Art.History@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Back to Top Nav Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Careers in Art History Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Fellowships and Opportunities Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Share Graduate Study Graduate Study What is Graduate School? Graduate study is an apprenticeship in a specialized field of study. In Art History, it transforms students into professionals, prepared to teach at the college level or to pursue a career in the museum. Pursuing a graduate degree in Art History requires a personal commitment to research and writing. Practically, graduate school as it will be discussed here concerns two types of degrees: a Master's degree and a Ph.D. The former takes, usually, two years; the latter typically from five to eight. The Master's degree • Why pursue a Master's degree? A Master's degree will help you get a better job in any field. It will also help you prepare for entry into a Ph.D. program, especially if you are planning to study an area in which you have limited experience. It can also help you to decide if you want to continue studying Art History. • What studying for a Master's entails. A Master's typically takes two years to complete. Your first year consists of course-work, while your second is devoted to research and to the writing of a Master's Thesis. • How to decide where to study? In general, in trying to decide where to pursue a Master's degree, you will want to place emphasis on the institution (rather than specific professors). You can ask many of the same questions outlined below under "Evaluating Programs." We suggest speaking with faculty to determine some potential good fits for you. The Ph.D. • Why pursue a Ph.D.? A Ph.D. is required if you would like to teach at the college level, if you would like to work as a curator, or become the director of a museum. • What studying for a Ph.D. entails. A Ph.D. traditionally takes about five to ten years to complete. During the first two years you follow the course of an M.A. (course-work, thesis/qualifying paper). In this time, you develop a specialization, and improve your language skills (many good programs require you to take proficiency tests in three or four languages--written translations; for European/US art = including French and German). If you drop out after having completed course-work and a "qualifying paper," you are often accorded a Master's degree. After two years, at some institutions you must then pass your "general examinations," or "comprehensive examinations (comps)," which test your general knowledge in broad areas, and specific knowledge in your area of specialization. In your fourth year, you can begin researching for your dissertation. Often, this involves applying for fellowships to pursue study abroad. While researching, and then writing your dissertation, at many institutions you can earn your keep by serving as a Teaching Assistant, leading undergraduate discussion groups. At some institutions you must "defend" your dissertation, by discussing your results with professors who have read your work. While a graduate student, you start to give papers at scholarly conferences and you also try to submit essays for publication, all of which is necessary for the next hurdle, finding a job. Do you want to attend graduate school? Graduate school is not the same as college. The work is more intense. Your work is more a part of your identity. This is both satisfying and difficult. Before committing to pursuing graduate study, ask yourself some questions: Do I really love the field? Am I really interested in teaching or working in a museum? Do I possess the right skills to be successful in graduate school and beyond? Am I prepared to postpone making money for five or more years? Am I applying to graduate school for the right reasons? Do I need to take a year off before applying? • What about a year off? There is nothing wrong with taking a year or two off before applying to graduate school; only 20-30% of graduating seniors enroll in graduate programs immediately after college. It is, naturally, advantageous if you use your "time off" to pursue something related to Art History (working in a gallery, or museum, for example). Similarly, if you can spend time in a country you hope to study in graduate school, this can be enormously helpful. Learning languages of any sort will aid your future in the field. Finally, graduate study is a long haul, for some a year off is a necessary break before returning to books and examinations. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Art History Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback