Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Art History Department of Art History Contact Us Facebook Art.History@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Back to Top Nav Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Careers in Art History Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities Graduate Study Tell Us Your Story Share Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Below is a partial list of additional internships. Students should reach out directly to these institutions for more information. Argentina Fundación PROA is an art center in Buenos Aires that celebrates 20th and 21st-century art. Armenia National Gallery of Armenia is a large museum located in Yerevan, with collections of Armenian, Russian and European art. Australia National Gallery of Australia is a large museum located in Parks, Canberra, with a strong collection of Australian art. Tasmanian Museum and Art Gallery is a large museum located in Hobart, Tasmania, with a strong collection of decorative art. Bermuda The Bermuda National Gallery contains African and Bermudan art. Canada Art Gallery of Ontario is a large museum in Toronto with a strong collection of African, Oceanic and Canadian art. Montreal Museum of Fine Arts houses an excellent collection of decorative and Canadian art, specifically from Quebec. National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa, Ontario, is a large museum with strong collections of indigenous and Canadian art. Chile Museo Chileno de Arte PreColombino in Santiago is a medium-sized museum with strong collections of Amazonian and Caribbean art. China Rockbund Art Museum, located in Shanghai, is a contemporary art museum. Croatia Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art Rijeka is a medium-sized museum with a strong collection of sculpture by Croatian artists. Czech Republic Museum of European Art, located in Liberec, is a medium-sized museum with a strong collection of 18th- and 19th-century Dutch paintings and 20th-century Czech art. Egypt The Egyptian Museum, located in Cairo, contains the greatest collection of Pharaonic antiquities. Fiji The Fiji Museum in Suva is devoted to archeological artifacts of Fiji. Finland The Finnish National Gallery in Helsinki consists of three museums: Sinebrychoff Art Museum (14th- to 19th-century international art), Ateneum Art Museum (international art and Finnish art from the 19th and 20th centuries) and the Museum of Contemporary Art Kiasma (contemporary art). France Lille Métropole Museum of Modern, Contemporary and Outsider Art (LaM) offers internships. Applicants must be fluent in French. Matisse Museum is devoted to Matisse and located in Nice, where the artist lived and worked from 1918 – 1954. To intern at the museum, applicants must be fluent in French and permitted to work in France. Musée Condé, a museum in Chantilly, has an excellent collection of Italian and French old master paintings. The museum is located within the Chateau de Chantilly. Sponsored by the McCulloch Center, this internship requires advanced French language skills. Musée Toulouse-Lautrec is located in Albi. Interns must be fluent in French and permitted to work in France Palais Beaux-Arts Lille is a large museum with a strong collection of European art from the 17th to 19th centuries. Applicants must be fluent in French and permitted to work in France. Germany KW Institute for Contemporary Art is located in Berlin and does not have a permanent collection. The Institute pioneered the Berlin Biennale. Peres Projects is a contemporary art gallery in Berlin. Staatliche Museen zu Berlin is a coalition of the following Berlin museums: Altes Museum, Alte Nationalgalerie, Ethnologisches Museum, Bode-Museum, Gemäldiegalerie, Kunstgewerbemuseum, Friederichswerdersche Kirche, Pergamonmuseum, Schloss Köpenick, Neues Museum, Neue Nationalgalerie, Sammlung Scharf-Gerstenberg, Museum für Fotografie, Museum für Asiatische Kunst, Museum Europäischer Kulturen, Museum Berggruen, Kupferstichkabinett and Hamburger Bahnhof – Museum für Gegenwart – Berlin. Greece Acropolis Museum is a large museum located in Athens encompassing the slopes of the Acropolis and the Temple of Athena Nike. Hong Kong Asia Art Archive researches contemporary Asian art. Internships are available in the editorial, communications, development, programs, research and library/collection departments. The summer internship session runs from June to August and requires a commitment of at least two months. Hong Kong Museum of Art is a large museum housing excellent collections of Chinese antiquities and art from Hong Kong. Iceland Reykjavik Art Museum is a large museum with a strong collection of sculpture. The three distinct buildings regularly exhibit works by three of the most famous Icelandic artists; Erró, Kjarval and Ásmundur Sveinsson, as well as other contemporary artists. Reykjavik Museum of Photography is part of a group of museums in the city. India National Museum of India is a large museum in New Delhi containing strong collections of Buddhist art and Indian textiles. Iran Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art is a medium-sized museum that exhibits contemporary art. Ireland National Gallery of Ireland is a museum in Dublin that houses European and Irish art. Internships are targeted for recent graduates, though rising seniors and students abroad in Ireland are recommended to apply. Internships are available in the education, conservation, curatorial and archives departments. Israel Haifa Museum of Art has an eclectic collection but is known for its exhibition of contemporary Israeli artists. Israel Museum is the national museum of Israel, located in Jerusalem. It houses Israeli and European art, as well as the Shrine of the Book. Rubin Museum, located in Tel Aviv, is dedicated to Reuven Rubin. Tel Aviv Museum of Art is a large museum with strong collections of Israeli, modern and contemporary art. Italy American Institute of Roman Culture conducts excavations around Rome. Peggy Guggenheim Collection is located in Venice. Internships are available for one to three months. The program is designed to integrate students into the city and gain greater knowledge of modern art as well as insight into museum operations. A highly competitive and prestigious program, only rising juniors and seniors should apply. Please note that advanced knowledge of Italian is essential. Civitella Ranieri Foundation based in a fifteenth-century castle in Umbria, it hosts artists, writers and musicians from around the world. Castello di Potentino a fully functioning vineyard and farm with archaeological excavations often underfoot. International Society for Archaeology, Art, and Architecture of Rome Japan Kyoto National Museum is a medium-sized museum with an excellent collection of pre-modern art by Japanese artists. National Museum of Western Art in Tokyo is a large museum that exhibits Western art. Jordan Darat al Funun Home for the Arts is an art center in Amman that showcases contemporary Arab art. Jordan National Gallery of Fine Arts is a large museum in Amman with a strong collection of modern art. Liechtenstein Kunstmuseum Liechtenstein, located in Vaduz, is a large museum containing modern and contemporary art. Kunstmuseum Liechtenstein is known for holding the estate of Andre Thomkins. Malaysia Asiarta Foundation is a nonprofit that documents Southeast Asian art, particularly works from Vietnam. Internships last three to 15 months and are available in the conservation, publishing, development, research, translation and design departments. Mexico Museo Amparo is a medium-sized museum located in the capital of Puebla. It has a strong collection of pre-Columbian art. Netherlands EYE – National Museum for Filmin the Netherlands is a museum in Amsterdam devoted to film preservation and exhibition. Museum Boijmans in Rotterdam has a strong collection of Dutch art, ranging from medieval to contemporary. New Zealand The Auckland Art Gallery exhibits work created by Pacific Island artists. Pataka Art and Museum, located in Porirua City, exhibits contemporary art. Te Manawa in Palmerston North is a large museum for science, history and art. The main focus of the art collection is art created by New Zealand artists after 1960. Waitakere Contemporary Gallery in West Auckland exhibits regional art. Norway NasjonalMuseet, The National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design in Oslo holds an excellent collection of works by Edvard Munch, architectural drawings of Norway and installation art. Peru Museo Larco is a large museum in Lima that exhibits works from ancient Peru. Philippines Ayala Museum in Manila has a strong collection of ceramics and archaeological artifacts. Metropolitan Museum of Manila is a large museum that houses Philippine art from the pre-colonial to the contemporary. Portugal Museu Calouste Gulbenkian in Lisbon is a large museum known for its collection of Armenian art and works by Rene Lalique. Russia The Moscow Kremlin Museum is known for its collection of Russian artwork and textiles. Moscow Museum of Modern Art exhibits modern and contemporary art. Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts in Moscow is a large museum with an excellent collection of European art. The State Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg is a large museum known for its collections of numismatics, Asian art and Russian art. Serbia Belgrade City Museum has a strong collection of coins and medals. Singapore National Heritage Board is an organization that places students who are Singapore citizens into one of the many art and culture museums in the city. South Korea National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art in Seoul is known for its collections of Korean painting and calligraphy. Sungkok Art Museum in Seoul offers a curatorial internship for a period of six months. Applicants must be current students studying art history. Spain Guggenheim Museum Bilbao is a relatively recent addition to the venerable Guggenheim network and features an iconic building by Frank Gehry. Taiwan Chi Mei Museum, located in Tainan City, contains a strong collection of weaponry and Western art. Turkey Istanbul Modern is a large museum of contemporary art that exhibits Turkish artists. Sakip Sabanci Museum in Istanbul is a medium-sized museum with an excellent collection of calligraphic art and early Turkish painting. United Kingdom Bowes Museum houses a strong collection of decorative and European art in Barnard Castle, Teesdale. Dulwich Picture Gallery offers a wide array of internships in a museum 15 minutes south of London. National Galleries of Scotland offers a centralized site for internships across Scottish art museums. The Tate is a British institution with a collection of international contemporary and modern art. The following museums make up the Tate: Tate Britain, Tate Liverpool, Tate Modern and Tate St. Ives. Applicants must be able to work in the U.K. and have completed one year of undergraduate coursework. The Victoria and Albert Museum, also known as the V&A, is an art and design museum located in London. Internships are available in a variety of departments and last one to six months. Applicants must be able to work in the U.K. and be at least 18 years of age. Vindolanda Excavations at Hadrian's Wall in Northumberland allows for firsthand excavation experience at a national heritage site. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Art History Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback