Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Art History Department of Art History Contact Us Facebook Art.History@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Back to Top Nav Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Allen Hockley Academic Appointments Associate Professor of Art History Allen Hockley’s research engages two fields of study: early Japanese photography and woodblock prints and illustrated books from the Tokugawa through early Showa periods. He teaches a broad array of courses on Japanese and Asian art including: Sacred Art and Architecture of Japan, The Japanese Painting Tradition, Japanese Architecture, Japanese Prints, Contemporary Art of Asia, Sacred Architecture of Asia, and Chinese Art. He offers advanced seminars on Colonial-era Photography in Africa, the Middle East and Asia. Contact Allen.Hockley@Dartmouth.EDU 646-3429 HB 6033 Education B.A. University of Victoria M.A. University of British Columbia Ph.D. University of Toronto Areas of Expertise Japanese print culture 1600-1970 /Nineteenth-Century Photography in Asia /Contemporary Art of Asia Selected Publications The Women of Shin Hanga: The Judith and Joseph Barker Collection of Japanese Prints, Hanover, NH: Hood Museum of Art, Dartmouth College, 2013 The Treaty of Portsmouth and Its Legacies, (co-edited with Steve Ericson) Lebanon, NH: University Press of New England, 2008 Public Spectacles and Personal Pleasures: Four Centuries of Japanese Prints From a Cincinnati Collection, Cincinnati: Cincinnati Museum of Art, 2006. The Prints of Isoda Koryûsai: Floating World Culture and Its Consumers in Eighteenth- Century Japan, Seattle: University of Washington Press, 2003. Inside the Floating World: Japanese Prints from the Lenoir C. Wright Collection, Greensboro, N.C.: Weatherspoon Art Gallery, 2002. + View more Essays "What Do People See in The Tale of Genji.” in Murasaki Shikibu. The Tale of Genji: A New Translation Contexts and Criticisms. Translated and Edited by Dennis C. Washburn. Norton Critical Editions. New York: W.W. Norton & Company, 2021: 1251-1267. “John Cooper Robinson and Japanese Commercial Photography” in Digital Meijis: Revisualizing Modern Japanese History at 150, edited by Tristan R. Grunow and Naoko Kato (Vancouver, B.C.: University of British Columbia Libraries, 2018): 95-104. [online version available at: https://meijiat150.arts.ubc.ca/] Sept. 2018 "Other Tea Cults" The Review of Japanese Culture and Society, (December 2012): 94-115. “John Thomson’s China: Illustrations of China and Its People (1873-74)” (2010) “Suzuki Harunobu: The Cult and Culture of Color,” Designed for Pleasure: The World of Edo Japan in Prints and Paintings, 1680-1860, (Asia Society, New York, 2008): 80-97. “Past Meets Present: Wenda Gu’s Forest of Stone Steles: Retranslation and Rewriting Tang Dynasty Poetry,” Wenda Gu at Dartmouth: The Art of Installation, Hanover, NH: Hood Museum of Art & University of New England Press, 2008): 120-133. “Globetrotter’s Japan: Places: Foreigners on the Tourist Circuit in Meiji Japan” (2008) “Globetrotter’s Japan: People: Foreigners on the Tourist Circuit in Meiji Japan” (2007) “Felice Beato’s Japan: Places: An Album by the Pioneer Foreign Photographer in Yokohama” (2006) “New Age Warriors: Redeploying the Heroic Ethos in the Late Meiji Period,” Chikanobu: Modernity and Nostalgia in Japanese Prints, Amsterdam: Hotei Publishing, 2006: 109-115. “Expectation and Authenticity in Meiji Tourist Photography,” Challenging Past and Present: The Metamorphosis of Nineteenth-Century Japanese Art, edited by Ellen P. Conant, Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 2006: 114-132. “The Zenning of Munakata Shikô” Impressions, no. 26 (2004): 77-87. “First Encounters – Emerging Stereotypes: Westerners and Geisha in the Late Nineteenth Century,” Peabody Essex Museum, Geisha: Beyond the Painted Smile, New York: George Braziller, (2004): 51-65. “Packaged Tours: Photo Albums and Their Implications for the Study of Early Japanese Photography,” Reflecting Truth: Photography in Nineteenth-Century Japan, edited by Nicole Coolidge Rousmaniere and Mikiko Hirayama. Amsterdam: Hotei Publishing (2004): 66-85. “Cameras, Photographs, and Photography in Nineteenth-Century Japanese Prints,” Impressions, no. 23 (2001): 42-63. “Shunga: Function, Context, Methodology,” Monumenta Nipponica, vol. 55, no. 2, (Summer 2000): 257-269. Courses Art History 4: Introduction to World Architecture Art History 32.21 [63]: Sacred Art and Architecture of Japan Art History 32.22 [64]: The Japanese Painting Tradition Art History 38.02 [67]: Contemporary Arts of Asia Art History 60: The Arts of China Art History 62.3 [65]: Japanese Prints Art History 82.02 [66]: The Camera in Nineteenth-century Asia + View more Related Links Japanese Prints at the Hood Museum of Art Screens and Scrolls: Japanese Painting from the Ackland Museum of Art Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Art History Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback