Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Art History Department of Art History Contact Us Facebook Art.History@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Back to Top Nav Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Careers in Art History Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Fellowships and Opportunities Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Share The Application The Application Although you should apply to more than one university, you ought to do enough research that you have a firm idea of the three programs which would suit your needs. The Process 1. Study the department websites. 2. Register for a GRE test offered at least six weeks prior to the application deadline. 3. Compose your statement of purpose. Ask advice from Department faculty. 4. Line up letters of recommendation. Three is usually the norm. 5. Complete and send all admission and financial aid applications ahead of the deadlines. Official Transcripts Most applications will request that the Registrar send an official transcript; you might also want to obtain a couple for yourself so that you can include them in applications. If you have taken courses at another institution, you will want to obtain an official transcript from there as well. FYI, you will need at least a GPA of 3.0 for acceptance to any reputable graduate program. GREs Most general graduate schools require the GRE. Be sure to make yourself familiar with the format of the GREs, and take as many sample tests as possible. Statement of Purpose This is possibly the most important aspect of the application. You should make sure that it reflects who you are and what your capabilities are. There is no room for careless mistakes; it must be read and proof-read by as many people as possible. It is sometimes necessary to tailor each statement to the institution for which it is intended. Remember that it will be read by a number of individuals, not just the professor with whom you wish to study. You will want, therefore, to appear focused, but not narrow. On the other hand, you will want to demonstrate that you are prepared to engage in advanced research. This is a professional document; it must demonstrate a mature understanding of the field. The opening sentence is especially important and must be eye-catching. In the first paragraph you should endeavor to convey your informed enthusiasm; in the second, you should communicate as much data as possible about yourself and your long-term goals; finally, you will want to express why it is that program X will enable you to make the most of your talents and achieve your goals. Leave out folksy tales, experiences from youth or high school, and any negative aspects of your academic record: be positive. The process or writing a personal statement takes time. You will want to show it to a professor, and you must expect to rewrite it many times before it is perfect. Do not leave it until the last minute. Begin brainstorming as soon as possible. Letters of Recommendation You will normally be asked to include with your application, or have sent separately, three or four letters of recommendation. These are very important. Try to have professors with whom you have taken a seminar, or with whom you have been on an FSP write for you. The more familiar they are with you, the more effective their letter will be. Specific examples are necessary; you might have to remind the professor of a paper you wrote, or a presentation you delivered in class. Also, if there is a negative aspect of your performance at Dartmouth, it is best addressed in a letter of recommendation (rather than in a personal statement); discuss this with your professors. Also, it will help if those reading the letters know, or know of the professor who wrote them. Try to choose professors who are well-known in their fields. When requesting that a professor write a letter of recommendation, the professor is both supporting you, and your application. Therefore, be sure to go, in person, and discuss your plans with professors as early in the process as possible. Also, show up prepared. Demonstrate that you have already put some thought into the matter (i.e., have some ideas about what you would like to study) When you finally decide to which programs you will apply, supply your letter writers with: a. a curriculum vitae/resumé b. a transcript or list of courses you have taken at Dartmouth c. explicit information about the date the letter is due, and how the letter is to be sent to the program. d. your statement of purpose Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Art History Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback