Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Art History Department of Art History Contact Us Facebook Art.History@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Back to Top Nav Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Careers in Art History Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Fellowships and Opportunities Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Share Information on Graduate Study and Fellowships Information on Graduate Study and Fellowships A Selection of Graduate Programs (this is by no means complete) • American University – MFA, M.A. Art History • Bard College, Center for Curatorial Studies – M.A. • Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts (NYC) – M.A. • Brown University – Ph.D. • Buffalo State College – M.A. in Art Conservation • Carnegie Mellon – Master of Arts Management • Case Western Reserve Univ./Cleveland Museum of Art, Joint Program in Art History – M.A. & Ph.D. programs in art history and in art history and museum studies. • Center for Old World Archaeology & Art, Brown Univ. – graduate study including archaeological field work, fellowships available • Christie's New York Art Course – three 9-week terms (Fall/Winter/Spring) at Christie's in New York. • Columbia University – Graduate School of Arts & Sciences • Cornell University – Ph.D. • Courtauld Institute of Art at Somerset House – grad & undergrad courses • Duke University – Ph.D. in Art History • Emory University – Ph.D. in Art History • Fashion Institute of Technology – M.A., Museum Studies: Costume & Textiles or Applied Arts; Gallery and Retail Art Administration • Florida State University – M.A., Ph.D. in Classics (concentration in Classical Archaeology) • Harvard University – Ph.D. through the Department of History of Art and Architecture or D.Des. through the Graduate School of Design • Hunter College – M.A. in Art History • Indiana University – M.A., Ph.D. in Art History • Jewish Theological Seminary and Jewish Museum (NYC): Master's Degree in Jewish Art and Material Culture • Johns Hopkins University – M.A., Ph.D. in Art History • The London Consortium (British Film Institute, Tate Gallery, Architectural Association, School of Architecture Birkbeck College, Univ. of London) – Ph.D., Humanities and Cultural Studies • Massachusetts Institute of Technology – SMArchS and Ph.D. in History, Theory and Criticism of Art and Architecture • Middlesex University, Centre for Research in Modern European Philosophy – M.A. in Modern European Philosophy, M.A. in Aesthetics and Art Theory • Oberlin College – M.A. in Art History • Oxford Brookes University, Oxford, England – M.A. in Art History • Parsons School of Design – M.A., including History of Decorative Arts • Princeton University – Ph.D. Department of Art and Archaeology • Queen's University/Kingston, Canada – Art Conservation Program, M.A. & Ph.D. in Art History • Rice Univ. – M.A. in Art History or Classical Archaeology • Richmond College, The American international University in London – M.A. in Art History • Royal College of Art/Victoria & Albert Museum – M.A. in Renaissance Decorative Arts & Culture (specialization in History of Design Postgraduate Programme) • San Francisco Art Institute – M.A. in the History and Theory of Contemporary Art • Savannah College of Art & Design – M.A. in Art History and in Architectural History • Sotheby's Institute for Fine and Decorative Art: American Arts Course • Sotheby's Institute – DiploM.A. of Higher Education in the Fine & Decorative Arts • Southern Methodist University, Meadows School of the Arts – M.A. in Art History • SUNY-Stony Brook – M.A. in Art History and Criticism • Syracuse University – Florence Graduate Program in Renaissance Art (M.A.) • Temple University – M.A. and Ph.D. in Art History • Texas Christian University – M.A. in Art History • Tufts University – M.A. in Art History • Tulane University – M.A. History of Art • U. Arizona – M.A. Art History • U. California Berkeley – Ph.D. in Art History • U. California Davis – M.A. in Art History • U. California Irvine – Ph.D. Art History • U. California, LA - M.A., Ph.D. Art History • U. California, Riverside – M.A. and Ph.D. History of Art • U. California San Diego – Ph.D. in Art History, Theory and Criticism • U. California Santa Cruz – Ph.D. in Visual Studies • University College London – MA, PhD, Art History • U. of Colorado Museum of Natural History – Master of Basic Science in Museum and Field Studies Program • U. of Cincinnati – M.A. in Art History • U. Delaware – M.A., Ph.D. in Art History; also Museum Studies Program • U. Florida – M.A., Ph.D. Art History, Museum Studies, Art Education, Arts Administration • U. Illinois/Chicago – M.A. History of Architecture & Art • U. of Illinois, Urbana/Champaign – School of Art & Design: M.A., Ph.D. in Art History • University of Iowa – M.A., Ph.D. in Art History • U. of Manchester (England) – M.Phil, Ph.D. in History of Art; M.Phil, Art Gallery & Museum Studies; M.A., History of Art • U. of Maryland – Art History & Archaeology • U. of Massachusetts at Amherst – M.A. Art History • U. of Michigan at Ann Arbor – Ph.D. Art History • U. of Minnesota – M.A., Ph.D. Art History • U. North Carolina, Chapel Hill – M.A., Ph.D. in Art History; M.A., Ph.D. in Classics • U. of Notre Dame – M.A., History of Art • U. of Oregon – M.A., Ph.D. in Art History and Building Preservation • University of Pennsylvania – Ph.D. • University of Pittsburgh – M.A., Ph.D. in Art History • U. Southern Calif, School of Fine Arts – M.A. & PhD, Art History (specialties in Museum Studies or Public Art Studies) • U. of Texas at Austin, Center for the Study of Modernism – Ph.D. • U. of Wisconsin, Madison – M.A. and Ph.D. in Art History • Vanderbilt University – M.A. in Art History • Winterthur Program in Early American Culture, Univ. of Delaware – M.A. program • Yale University – Ph.D. in Art History, M.E.D. through School of Architecture Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Art History Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback