/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Undergraduate Program Minor in Visual Studies Courses Graduate Program Graduate Field Handbook Current Graduate Students Course Flyers Faculty Department Faculty Faculty Publications About Us Department Contacts History of Art Major's Society Events The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Traditional areas of study integrated with modern fields of theory and research. The Department of History of Art and Visual Studies Our department studies areas traditionally central to the discipline such as ancient, medieval and Renaissance art, and the integration of recent fields of theory and research to the study of global visual culture. Students further their understanding of the discipline of art history, its roots, its methodologies, as well as its historical and critical connections with other disciplines. History of Art Links Faculty Profiles Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Course Offerings Department News Contemporary and ancient art exhibit enlivens Ithaca Mall The “Sculpture Shoppe” exhibition displays selections from Cornell’s plaster cast collection of Greco-Roman sculptures alongside – and sometimes within – contemporary artists’ responses to cast culture and classical art. Read More ARTH class of 2022 Congratulations to History of Art and Visual Studies class of 2022! Read More Koca '25 publishes her History of Art FWS essay ARTH FWS student Ashley Koca '25 publishes essay in Fenjan journal of Near Eastern Studies. Read More Lauren van Haaften-Schick PhD '22, awarded Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowship Lauren van Haaften-Schick PhD '22, has been awarded the Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowship at the Center for the Humanities at Wesleyan University. Read More Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More Ana Howie joins the department as assistant professor of Renaissance, Baroque, and early modern art starting July 2023 History of Art and Visual Studies is excited to announce Ana Howie will be joining the department as assistant professor. Read More B Exam Announcements Fall 2022 Lara Fresko Madra, Sara Garzón, and Lauren van Haaften-Schick held B-Exams in 2022. Read More Sculpture Shoppe launches with ancient Greek song performance The Sculpture Shoppe, located in a former retail space in Ithaca Mall, will be open through the month of May. Read More More News History of Art Events See all events Alumni Spotlight Sarah Humphreville, BA and BFA ’09, curates Whitney Museum exhibition History of Art and Fine Art alumna Sarah Humphreville has recently curated Labyrinth of Forms: Women and Abstraction, 1930–1950 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, where she works as a Senior Curatorial Assistant. Labyrinth of Forms, drawn primarily from the Whitney’s collection, features over th... Read More Land Acknowledgement Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. This land acknowledgment has been reviewed and approved by the traditional Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' leadership. GM08 Goldwin Smith Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853 Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email A&S Departments 607-255-9861 Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top