Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Art History Department of Art History Contact Us Facebook Art.History@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Back to Top Nav Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Careers in Art History Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Fellowships and Opportunities Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Share Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants In March and April, you will begin hearing from the programs to which you have applied. When you are accepted, a new stage in the process begins. If you are accepted to more than one program, you will want to start comparing programs again. Although you might have distinct preferences, you will want to begin taking some practical matters into account. Programs differ, markedly, in the manner in which they support graduate students financially. You will want to know about the structures of support when you apply, but after you have been accepted, you will want to understand, precisely, what each program is willing to commit to you. You will want to understand the precise costs of the program, if there are any grants to cover fees, what kind of financial aid is available. The goal is to avoid paying fees yourself (or taking loans out to pay them). Secondarily, you will want to try and secure some money to live on. Some programs offer you money in the form of grants, others will let you earn your keep by acting as a Teaching Assistant or preceptor. When you are accepted, reply with a polite letter acknowledging the receipt of the good news. You will want to wait as long as possible before committing to any one program so that you can see where else you have been accepted. When you have received enough letters of acceptance, you will want to evaluate the programs more specifically. If necessary, you might have to visit them in order to speak with faculty and students directly. Don't be hurried. Your goal at this point will be to secure a fellowship from the department. You will want to mention that you have offers from other programs. It is best, naturally, to state that you are most interested in attending X, but program Y is offering you enticements that make it difficult to refuse. Having said this, don't be too greedy. You will never "make" money at graduate school. Even after you have accepted a particular offer, you can still inquire if there is any fellowship money to be had; sometimes other candidates who have decided to attend graduate school elsewhere free up some moneys late in the process. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Art History Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback