Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Art History Department of Art History Contact Us Facebook Art.History@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Back to Top Nav Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Careers in Art History Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities Graduate Study Tell Us Your Story Share Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses In order to pursue a career in the museum, the gallery, or the auction house, you might need to pursue graduate study (see PART THREE). Beyond degrees, it is essential to gain practical experience. At the undergraduate level, this means securing internships. Most major museums, galleries, and auction houses run internship programs, although they are not always well-publicized and many remain unpaid. General Internship Search Engines: American Alliance of Museums website. An article from Artsy about internships in the art world (June, 2019) Association of Research Institutes in Art History Careers in Art History paid internships. Chegg Internships is a search engine for internships. Idealist internship/job website for positions in the arts and beyond: National Endowment for the Humanities has internships that relate to education, diffusion, and preservation of the humanities. New England Museums of Art Consortium's list of paid and unpaid internships: New York Foundation of the Arts' internship/job opportunities in NYC and beyond. Art magazines, zines, blogs (partial listing) Apollo is an international art magazine based in London. Art in America explores contemporary art and offers editorial internships in New York City. Brooklyn Rail, critical perspectives on arts, politics, and culture. Juxtapoz covers underground and contemporary art. Based out of San Francisco. Artsy provides buyers with access to top works from the world's leading galleries, museums, art fairs, and auctions, all in one place. Artnet, located in New York City, is an online source for the international art market, providing price databases and a network of galleries and auction houses. Hyperallergic, a forum for serious, playful, and radical thinking about art in the world today Commercial art galleries and auction houses, USA: Aquavella Bonhams is one of the oldest auctioneers of antiques and fine arts. Highly competitive internships are available at diverse locations. Christie's offers highly competitive internships in the Americas, Asia, and Europe. Interns are placed in business and specialist departments. Dreweatts and Bloomsbury specializes in antiquarian books, contemporary art, Asian art, and European ceramics. Three-month internships take place in a variety of departments. Please note that Dreweatts and Bloomsbury is based in the U.K., with one additional office in Rome. Jill Newhouse Gallery based in New York City offer internships. For information contact them via email Sotheby's offers a highly competitive internship program in business and specialist departments. The program runs for eight weeks and is only open to college juniors. Wildenstein & Co. based in New York City is an auction house Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Art History Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback