Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Art History Department of Art History Contact Us Facebook Art.History@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Back to Top Nav Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Deadlines for summer internships are usually between early February and early May. Below is a partial list of internships. Students should reach out directly to these institutions for more information. Alabama Birmingham Museum of Art is a medium-sized museum with strong collections of Native American and African art. Carnegie Visual Arts Center is an interdisciplinary art institution in Decatur. Huntsville Museum of Art is a small museum in northern Alabama that houses regional art as well as modern American art. Mobile Museum of Art is known for its collection of 19th-century landscapes. Tuscaloosa Museum of Art is a small museum with an excellent collection of decorative art. Alaska Anchorage Museum documents history, science, and art. It is particularly well-known for its indigenous Alaskan artifacts. Arizona Arcosanti Construction Workshops Museum of Contemporary Art Tucson (MOCA Tucson) exhibits contemporary art and offers movement classes. Heard Museum is noted for its collection of American Indian Art. Phippen Museum a museum about the art and heritage of the American West. Phoenix Art Museum is a large museum known for its collection of Latin American and Western American art. Scottsdale Museum of Contemporary Art (SMoCA) mixes contemporary art, literature, film, and dance. Internships are open to undergraduate and graduate students in a variety of departments. Tucson Museum of Art offers curatorial internships, as well as education and marketing. Arkansas Arkansas Art Center in Little Rock focuses on art and education. The center contains a gallery housing photographs prints and drawings, a children's theater, and a studio school. Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art is a relatively new (and well-supported) museum located in Bentonville. Fort Smith Regional Art Museum shows regional contemporary art. South Arkansas Arts Center houses three galleries, several dance studios, and offers studio art workshops to the local community. It also runs the El Dorado Film Festival. California Asian Art Museum in San Francisco houses distinctive materials, aesthetics, and intellectual achievements of Asian art and cultures, The Broad is a contemporary art museum on Grand Avenue in Downtown Los Angeles. The Crocker Art Museum is the oldest museum west of the Mississippi and is located in Sacramento, CA. De Young Museum in San Francisco's Golden Gate Park is renowned for its collections of American art from the 17th through the 20th centuries, Textile arts, and art of Africa, Oceania, and the Americas. The Getty Foundation is located in Los Angeles, funded by the Getty Trust, and strives to increase museum education and art conservation. The Getty Marrow Undergraduate Internship program targets students typically underrepresented in the art industry and selects 15 to 20 applicants. An applicant must be an enrolled undergraduate, a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, reside in Los Angeles County, and be Pacific Islander, Latina, Native American, Asian or African-American. Internships at other Los Angeles-area Museums and Visual Arts Organizations sponsored by the Getty Hammer Museum has a permanent collection of historical works & special exhibits of edgy contemporary art. Located in Los Angeles. Hearst Castle historic hilltop castle of William Randolph Hearst. Legion of Honor in San Francisco's Golden Gate Park boasts an impressive collection of 4,000 years of ancient and European art in an unforgettable setting overlooking the Golden Gate Bridge. Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA) is known for its encyclopedic collection. Applicants must be juniors, seniors, or recent college graduates. LACMA grants academic credit for the internship. The Mexican Museum in San Francisco, CA. Internships are available for summer and fall. Looking for Latino/candidates interested in pursuing careers in Museology and/or a background in Art Education; Education; Mexican History, literature, culture, arts; Chicano studies, Latin American Studies, Spanish Language; Art History. Moca is the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles. Norton Simon Museum is a small museum in Pasadena with an excellent collection of European tapestries from the 14th – 16th centuries. Internships are available in various departments throughout the academic year. Palm Springs Art Museum an important collection of modern and contemporary art in a lovely setting. Ruth Chandler Williamson Gallery at Scripps College is a well-respected college art museum in Claremont known for its excellent selection of Japanese prints and photographs. San Diego Museum of Art houses a strong collection of Spanish art and offers internships to college seniors in many departments. San Francisco Museum of Modern Art (SFMOMA) offers highly competitive internships. Santa Cruz Museum of Art and History at the McPherson Center (MAH) is a nonprofit institution that focuses on how art impacts the community. The work environment is fast-paced and requires self-motivation. Internship applicants are accepted on a rolling basis. Colorado Aspen Art Museum is a non-collecting museum focused on international contemporary art. Boulder Museum of Contemporary Art (BMoCA) offers internships in curatorial, marketing, education, and public programs. Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center is a multidisciplinary art institution at Colorado College. Denver Art Museum has a very strong collection of Native American art. All internships are affiliated with the education department. Applicants must be enrolled undergraduates or have recently completed an undergraduate degree. Foothills Art Center is an art exhibition center located in the city of Golden. Kirkland Museum of Fine and Decorative Art is a small museum in Denver that houses decorative art, Colorado and regional art, and works by Vance Kirkland. Museo de las Américas is a small museum in Denver that shows Latin-American art. Internships are available seasonally. Museum of Contemporary Art (MCA) Denver is a contemporary art institution that focuses on education and its relationship to the visual arts. Museum of Outdoor Arts (MOA) is an institution in Englewood with indoor museum space, an outdoor art collection, and an amphitheater for performances. Western Colorado Center for the Arts in Grand Junction houses a strong collection of Native American art and regional art. Connecticut Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum in Ridgefield does not have a permanent collection. Internship opportunities vary each year. Bruce Museum is a science and art museum in Greenwich. Internships are available in the natural sciences, collections management, education, environmental education and development departments, as well as marketing and communications. Florence Griswold Museum, located in Old Lyme in the former home of Florence Griswold, is known for its collection of impressionist art. Lyman Allyn Art Museum in New London offers internships in curatorial, education, and visitor services departments. MoCA Westport is a museum of contemporary art in Southern CT New Britain Museum of American Art is a small museum that focuses on American art. Summer internships run from June to August and vary from year to year. Slater Memorial Museum of Norwich Free Academy offers internships in collections management and archives. Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, located in Hartford, is known for its strong collection of decorative arts, impressionist paintings, and Hudson River school landscapes. Applicants should have completed two years of undergraduate coursework. Yale University Art Gallery is a distinguished college art museum in New Haven. Delaware Delaware Art Museum is known for its collection of Pre-Raphaelite art and 19th-century American art. Internships are offered seasonally for undergraduates. The Delaware Contemporary is a small non-collecting museum in Wilmington that offers internships in a variety of departments. Hagley Museum and Library is a nonprofit institution in Wilmington documenting the history of American business and technology. Internships are offered seasonally. Winterthur Museum, Gardens, and Library one of America's most beautiful historic homes and mansions founded by Henry Francis du Pont. Florida Bass Museum of Art is a contemporary art museum in Miami. Boca Raton Museum of Art is a medium-sized museum with a strong collection of Pre-Columbian art. Cummer Museum one of the finest art collections in the Southeast, with more than 5,000 objects in its permanent collection. Located in Jacksonville. The Dali Museum is located in St. Petersburg and showcases the genius of Salvador Dali with works on paper, paintings, videos, and photographs. Internships are offered in many departments. The James Museum of Western & Wildlife Art in St. Petersburg opened in April 2018 and transports visitors through the rich and diverse heritage of the American West. Morikami Museum and Japanese Gardens in Delray Beach is modeled after a Japanese villa and houses art and landscapes inspired by Japan. The John and Mable Ringling Museum of Art in Sarasota has an impressive old master collection and offers internships. Museum of Contemporary Art North Miami collects contemporary art and offers internships in a variety of departments. Norton Museum of Art is a small museum in West Palm Beach with strong collections of Chinese art and American art from the 20th century. A summer internship is available to recent graduates with a bachelor's degree in art history. Tampa Museum of Art is a small museum that exhibits modern and contemporary art. Georgia Albany Museum of Art is a medium-sized museum with a permanent collection of American and African art. ATHICA: Athens Institute for Contemporary Art offers internships on a project basis, arranged according to the skill set an individual applicant wants to strengthen. High Museum of Art in Atlanta is a leading institution in the Southeast. The High is known for supporting Southern artists and its excellent collection of African art, 19th- and 20th-century American art, and decorative art. Madison Museum of Fine Art is a small museum offering summer internships to enrolled undergraduates. Marietta/Cobb Museum of Art is a small museum with a focus on art and education. Internships are offered year-round. Hawaii Honolulu Museum of Art is known for its collection of Japanese woodblock prints and Hawaiian artifacts. Internships are offered seasonally for undergraduate and graduate students. Shangri-La Museum of Islamic Art, Culture, and Design is located in the former home of Doris Duke in Honolulu. Internships are offered. Idaho Art Museum of Eastern Idaho is an exhibition space and education center in Idaho Falls. Boise Art Museum (BAM) is devoted to contemporary art that offers internships to undergraduate students. Illinois The Art Institute of Chicago is the second-largest museum in the United States, housing over 300,000 works of art. A variety of highly competitive internships are available. DuSable Museum of African-American History, a Smithsonian affiliate, collects and displays objects that promote African-American culture. All internships are posted seasonally. Frank Lloyd Wright Trust is a nonprofit institution preserving the vision of Frank Lloyd Wright. Internships take place at one of four sites: the Robie House in Chicago, Wright's Oak Park home and studio, the ShopWright merchandise center in Bellwood, Illinois, and the Rookery in Chicago. Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago (MCA Chicago) is a large institution that exhibits postwar visual culture. A variety of highly competitive internships are offered throughout the year. Indiana Eiteljorg Museum of American Indians and Western Art is a museum in Indianapolis that shows both indigenous art of the American West and art of North America. Fort Wayne Museum of Art is devoted to American art. Internships are available to undergraduate students. Indianapolis Museum of Art/Newfields is a medium-sized museum with an emphasis on combining art with nature. Iowa Cedar Rapids Museum of Art is known for its collection of 20th-century American art. Des Moines Art Center is a small museum that offers internships to undergraduate students. Figge Art Museum, located in Davenport, is known for its collection of Midwestern and Haitian art. The museum offers internships seasonally. Kansas Deines Cultural Center is a nonprofit art institution in Russell that offers summer internships. Lawrence Arts Center is a multidisciplinary art center. Salina Art Center is a nonprofit showcasing regional and local artists. Internships are available in the development, curatorial, marketing, education and management departments. Spencer Museum of Art is the college art museum for the University of Kansas. Internships are offered seasonally. Wichita Art Museum is a small museum with a strong collection of American art. Kentucky Headley-Whitney Museum is a small museum in Lexington with an excellent collection of handcrafted jewelry. Kentucky Museum of Art and Craft (KMAC) is a small contemporary art museum located in Louisville's historic downtown that exhibits decorative arts and crafts. Internships are available in the curatorial, communications, marketing, development, education and collections management departments. Applicants must be enrolled, undergraduates or recent college graduates. Speed Art Museum in Louisville is a medium-sized museum with a strong collection of modern American art and sculpture. Internships are available in a variety of departments. Yeiser Art Center is a nonprofit arts institution in Paducah. Internships are offered to undergraduate and graduate students. Interns assist with exhibition installation, marketing campaigns and interpreting exhibitions. Louisiana Alexandria Museum of Art is a small museum with a strong collection of 20th- and 21st-century Southern art, specifically artists from Louisiana. New Orleans Museum of Art (NOMA) is known for its strong collection of American and French art. Internships are available in the interpretation, administration, development and curatorial departments. Ogden Museum of Southern Art contains a strong collection of Southern art. Internships are offered in the education and development departments. Maine Center for Maine Contemporary Art (CMCA) is a small nonprofit located in Rockport. Farnsworth Art Museum is a small museum in Rockland with an excellent collection of American art focusing on Maine as its subject matter. The museum offers internships in the following departments: administration, curatorial and development. Ogunquit Museum of American Art is a small museum with a strong collection of American art. Portland Museum of Art has a strong collection of European and American art. Special attention is also given to artists and artwork relating to the state of Maine. is a museum in Bridgton dedicated to the painter Rufus Porter. The museum offers two 12-week summer internships. Maryland Baltimore Museum of Art is known for its collection of modern sculpture, contemporary sculpture, and African art. Internships are available to undergraduate and graduate students, as well as recent graduates. Glenstone, located in Potomac, exhibits postwar art and architecture. The National Museum of the American Indian has a Cultural Resources Center (CRC) in Suitland (MD) that houses the NMAI's collection of more than 800,000 objects, representing indigenous cultures throughout the Americas. Walters Art Museum, located in Baltimore, is known for its collection of medieval art and also 19th-century French paintings. Internships are available to undergraduate and graduate students. Massachusetts American Textile History Museum in Lowell is an affiliate of the Smithsonian. The museum explores American history with a concentration on the science, art, and history of textiles. Internships are posted throughout the academic year. Chesterwood is a historic site in Stockbridge, the former summer home of sculptor Daniel Chester French. Internships are offered, some awarding a stipend of $2,000. Clark Art Institute in Williamstown is a public museum as well as an institute for higher research. It offers the Lunder Internship Program. DeCordova Sculpture Park and Museum in Lincoln exhibits contemporary sculpture and offers internships. Eric Carle Museum of Picture Book Art in Amherst has internship opportunities. Gallery 263, located in Cambridge, has internships across the broad spectrum of running a commercial art gallery. Historic Deerfield is an 18th-century village located in western Massachusetts. Summer Fellows provide tours and conduct research for Historic Deerfield. Applicants must be juniors or seniors. This program runs nine weeks over the summer. Harvard Art Museums, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA. Dartmouth students have had internships here. Fruitlands Museum, founded in 1914 by Clara Endicott Sears, takes its name from an experimental utopian community led by Bronson Alcott and Charles Lane which took place on this site in 1843. Includes an important art collection and important buildings. Institute of Contemporary Art Boston offers educational seminars for interns and gives them free admission to special events at the ICA. The summer internship runs from May to August. Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum is a medium-sized museum in Boston with an excellent collection crafted by Isabella Stewart Gardner. The museum offers internships seasonally. John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum is filled with personal papers and documents of John F. Kennedy, along with the Ernest Hemingway collection. Highly competitive internships are offered seasonally. Interns are provided with a stipend. Applicants must be U.S. citizens or aliens who have a Social Security number. Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts Berkshire Hills Internship Program (B-HIP)is an intensive arts management internship program that combines hands-on work experience with classes taught by arts management faculty. Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art (Mass MoCA) is devoted to contemporary performing art and visual art. Internships are offered in almost all departments. Interns are supplied with free housing and a weekly stipend. MIT Museum is a highly regarded university art museum that offers internships to undergraduates, graduate students, and recent college graduates. Internships are available in the collections, exhibitions, visitor studies, and architecture and design departments. Museum of Fine Arts Boston has an encyclopedic collection. The MFA Boston offers internships seasonally. Applicants must be enrolled undergraduates and have completed their freshman year. Museum of Russian Icons in Clinton houses the largest collection of Russian icons in North America. Norman Rockwell Museum, located in Stockbridge, is dedicated to its namesake artist and to American illustration. Old Sturbridge Village showcases early American village history and offers internships in a variety of departments, with some including stipends. Peabody Essex Museum, situated in historic Salem, is a large museum with a noted collection of Asian art. Internships are offered seasonally. Whistler House Museum of Art in Lowell is the former home, now museum, of the artist James McNeill Whistler. Internships consist of clerical work, assisting with events and archiving prints. Worcester Art Museum is an encyclopedic museum in Worcester. The museum offers internships in a variety of departments. Michigan Cranbrook Art Museum is a small museum in Bloomfield Hills. Detroit Institute of Arts is an encyclopedic museum located in downtown Detroit. Flint Institute of Arts is known for its collection of Great Lakes paintings and its strong film program. Internships are available in the education and curatorial departments. Grand Rapids Art Museum is a small museum offering Internships in the education, development, curatorial, public relations and membership departments. Kalamazoo Institute of Arts is a non profit art education center offering internships in the marketing, archives, development, education and curatorial departments. Museum of Contemporary Art, Detroit (MOCAD) offers internships in the communications, programming, exhibitions, development and education departments. MSU Broad Museum at Michigan State University in East Lansing MI. Urban Institute for Contemporary Arts is located in Grand Rapids. Minnesota Duluth Art Institute is an education and exhibition center. Franconia Sculpture Park, located in Shafer, hosts an arts administration intern program. Minneapolis Institute of Art is a nonprofit that offers internships in various departments. Applicants must have completed two years of undergraduate coursework. Walker Art Center is a multidisciplinary art institution in Minneapolis that offers internships seasonally. Mississippi Mississippi Museum of Art is a medium-sized museum in Jackson. Internships are available to undergraduate and graduate students in the collections management, education, exhibitions and marketing departments. Missouri Contemporary Art Museum Saint Louis offers 15 internships per year across various museum departments. Kemper Museum of Contemporary Art is a small museum in Kansas City with a strong collection of modern and contemporary art. Internships last for three months and are available in the administration, curatorial, development, education, marketing and registration departments. Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City is an encyclopedic museum known for its excellent collection of Asian art. Internships are available in a variety of departments. Saint Louis Art Museum is a large urban museum with a well-established internship program. Montana C.M. Russell Museum is located in Great Falls and shows American Western art. An internship in museum management is offered to college juniors and seniors. Holter Museum of Art is a small museum in Helena that exhibits contemporary art. Missoula Art Museum is a medium-sized museum known for its collection of Native American art. Yellowstone Art Museum is a medium-sized museum in Billings that shows contemporary art. Nebraska Bemis Center for Contemporary Arts is a thriving artists collective in Omaha. Joslyn Art Museum, located in Omaha, is the fine arts museum for the state of Nebraska. The museum is known for its collection of 19th- and 20th-century art and offers internships in a variety of departments. Nevada Nevada Museum of Art is a medium-sized museum in Reno with a strong photography collection. New Hampshire Currier Museum of Art, a small museum located in Manchester, celebrates American and European art. Strawbery Banke Museum in Portsmouth is an impressive 10-acre living museum with archaeology, decorative arts and architecture of the 18th century. Saint-Gaudens National Historic Site, Cornish, NH. Internships are offered at the home of Augustus Saint-Gaudens, one of America's greatest sculptors. Hood Museum of Art is a Dartmouth student's best opportunity for an internship and for museum experience. New Jersey African Art Museum of the Society of African Missions is located in Tenafly. Montclair Art Museum is a medium-sized museum with a strong collection of Native American art. The Museum of Russian Art is located in Jersey City. Newark Museum offers an active internship at the largest museum in New Jersey. Princeton University Art Museum is a leading university art museum offering summer internships. The Stickley Museum at Craftsman Farms in Morris Plains is a museum dedicated to the craftsman Gustav Stickley. One summer internship is offered in the education department. New Mexico Georgia O'Keeffe Museum in Santa Fe is a museum that celebrates Georgia O'Keeffe and American modernism and offers several internship opportunities, including the O'Keeffe Art and Leadership Internship. Interns serve as mentors to adolescent boys and girls interested in the arts. Applicants must be enrolled undergraduates and are strongly advised to have a vehicle. The internship lasts 10 weeks. SITE Santa Fe is a contemporary art space with biennial exhibitions. Internships are offered. New York Albany Institute of History and Art is a regional art museum that houses an excellent selection of Hudson River school paintings. Internships are offered in a variety of departments. Albright-Knox Art Gallery, located in Buffalo, has an excellent collection of modern and contemporary art. Summer internships are available in diverse departments and run from June to August. Museum of Arts and Design, in NYC American Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria NY. American Folk Art Museum in New York City offers highly competitive internships. Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts seeks to support and advance the field of visual arts. The foundation, located in New York City, offers a summer internship to document the public sales of Warhol works over the course of the foundation's previous fiscal year. Arts Commission of the City of NY offers internship opportunities. Asian American Arts Centre in New York City is devoted to Asian art. Internships are available in the archive, collections management, development, education and graphics departments. College credit is available for internships. Asia Society is a global educational institution that promotes Asian culture. Internships in New York City are available in various departments. Bronx Museum of the Arts is a small museum dedicated to bringing art into the Bronx community. It offers the Public Programs Internship. The intern helps with outwork, event coordination, marketing and research. Brooklyn Museum is a large museum known for its collections of Japanese and Egyptian art. A mix of internships are offered in a variety of departments. Center for Photography at Woodstock is a nonprofit photography institution in upstate New York. The center offers internships seasonally. The China Institute, located in New York City, serves to promote a deeper understanding of China through art, culture, education and business. Cooper-Hewitt is a design museum in New York City affiliated with the Smithsonian. Internships are offered seasonally. The Cloisters, FortTryon Park, NYC, a vast collection of medieval art. See Metropolitan Museum of Art. Corning Museum of Glass offers internships in museum studies, education, communications, information technology and conservation. The museum is located in Corning. Creative Time, located in New York City, creates and commissions public art projects. Internship applicants should be self-directed, enthusiastic, and have solid writing skills. DIA Art Foundation offers internships at their world-renowned contemporary art facility DIA: Beacon, and sometimes at the foundation offices in New York City. The Drawing Center, situated in the Soho neighborhood of Manhattan, showcases historical and contemporary drawings. Internships are offered. Edward Hopper House, located in Nyack, invites college and graduate level students to apply for internships. Interns should be studying art history, fine arts, history, arts administration, museum studies or marketing. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Everson Museum of Art is a museum in Syracuse with a strong collection of American art. Summer internships are available in the education, development and curatorial departments. The Frick Collection in Manhattan is one of America's premier house museums. George Eastman Museum in Rochester offers internships during the summer, including a moving image department internship and a photography department internship. Heckscher Museum of Art is located in Huntington, on Long Island. International Center of Photography is a New York City institution devoted to the education and cultural appreciation of photography. Internships are offered to enrolled students and recent graduates. The Jewish Museum in New York City is devoted to Jewish art and culture. Highly competitive internships are available for undergraduates and graduate students in a variety of departments. Memorial Art Gallery, at the University of Rochester, has internships that vary from year to year. Metropolitan Museum of Art is an encyclopedic museum in New York City. The Metropolitan offers highly competitive internships. The (Pierpont) Morgan Library and Museum is a New York City institution is known for its incredible collection of prints and drawings. The Morgan offers internships for undergraduate and graduate students. Munson-Williams-Proctor Arts Institute in Utica offers summer internships for high school, undergraduate and graduate students. El Museo del Barrio is a museum in Manhattan's East Harlem neighborhood that explores Latino, Caribbean and Latin American cultures. Museum of the City of New York celebrates the art and culture of New York City. Internships are available to undergraduate and graduate students in a variety of departments. Museum of Modern Art in New York City offers highly competitive seasonal and 12-month internships at the Manhattan museum site and at MoMA PS1 in Queens. Applicants must have completed at least two years of undergraduate coursework and be available three days a week. Other internship opportunities vary seasonally. The National Museum of the American Indian is part of the Heye Center at One Bowling Green, NYC. It features temporary exhibitions and a range of public programs. Neue Galerie specializes in German and Austrian art from the early 20th century and is located in Manhattan. There are no specific departmental internships. Instead, interns are given insight into all aspects of running a museum. New Museum in New York City is a contemporary art museum that offers highly competitive internships in the education, development, curatorial, external affairs, registrar, exhibition management, information systems, special events and retail departments. Applicants must be 18 years or older and willing to work two days a week, seven hours per day. Olana State Historic Site in Hudson is the former home and studio of eminent Hudson River school painter Frederic Edwin Church and welcomes volunteers and interns. Rubin Museum of Art is a New York City museum dedicated to the art of the Himalayas, with a focus on Tibetan art. The museum offers summer internships in a range of departments. The summer internship session runs from mid-May to early August. Interns receive free access to New York City museums, discounts at Serai and free admission to special events. Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum is a legendary New York City museum with an excellent collection of modern and contemporary art. The Guggenheim primarily offers internships for a period of three months. The South Street Seaport Museum preserves and interprets the origins and growth of New York City as a world port. Storm King Art Center is a 500-acre site with 100 sculptures, located in the village of Cornwall, about one hour north of New York City. Studio Museum Harlem, in New York City, offers internships in a number of departments. Studio in a School (NYC residents only) but the internship can be in various places across the country. Thomas Cole National Historic Site is the former home of Thomas Cole, now a museum in the Catskills. Internships are offered year-round for undergraduate and graduate students. An internship runs from three to six months and may also be eligible for academic credit. Interns assist with day-to-day operations, collections management, interpretation and visitor services. Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis. Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City focuses on American art from the 20th and 21st centuries. Applicants must be college juniors, seniors or recent graduates. Interns are provided with MetroCards, free admission to New York City museums and a discount at the Whitney store. North Carolina Ackland Art Museum is the art museum of the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. Internships are available to enrolled undergraduate and graduate students. Asheville Art Museum is a medium-sized museum with a strong collection of American art. Internships are offered in the development, curatorial, communications and visitor services departments. The Mint Museum, located in Charlotte, is a medium-sized museum housing a strong collection of decorative art. Internships are available in the communications, collections and exhibitions, graphic design and curatorial departments. North Carolina Museum of Art is a medium-sized museum located in Raleigh. Internship applicants must be rising college juniors and seniors or recent college graduates. Department eligibility varies each year. Reynolda House Museum of American Art is a distinctive house museum located in Winston-Salem. This internship is in the education department. Weatherspoon Art Museum is the art museum of University of North Carolina at Greensboro. Internships are open to enrolled undergraduate and graduate students. North Dakota North Dakota Museum of Art, located in Grand Forks, collects contemporary American art and Native American art. Ohio Akron Art Museum is a small museum housing American and international art. Summer internships are offered in the curatorial and education departments. Applicants must be enrolled undergraduates. Cincinnati Art Museum is an outstanding urban museum. Internships are offered. The Cleveland Museum of Art is known for its collections of Egyptian, medieval, and Asian art. Internships are available for undergraduates and graduates. Intern placement varies each year. Columbus Museum of Art offers a wide variety of internship opportunities. Contemporary Arts Center, located in Cincinnati, is a non-collecting art institution that shows contemporary art. Internships are available in the curatorial, design, development and education departments. Museum of Contemporary Art, Cleveland offers a well-organized program of internships. Toledo Museum of Art is a medium-sized museum with a strong collection of glass art, American art and European art. The museum offers and internships seasonally. Oklahoma Gilcrease Museum, located in Tulsa, has a strong collection of art of the American West. The Gilcrease has internships for graduating seniors and beyond. Oklahoma City Museum of Art has a strong collection of American art and glass sculpture. Applicants must be enrolled undergraduates, recent graduates or graduate students. Internships are available in the curatorial, education and film departments. Oregon Douglas F. Cooley Memorial Art Gallery is the art museum of Reed College in Portland. Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art is a leading university art museum, affiliated with the University of Oregon in Eugene. Portland Art Museum is known for its collection of graphic arts and art of the Northwest. The museum offers a variety of internship opportunities. Portland Institute for Contemporary Art offers internships seasonally. Schneider Museum of Art is the college art museum of Southern Oregon University in Ashland. Pennsylvania Allentown Art Museum is located in eastern Pennsylvania. Internships cover key areas of the museum's operations. The Andy Warhol Museum is located in Warhol's hometown of Pittsburgh and strives to continue the legacy of the pop artist. Internships are available in the registrar, reproduction and curatorial departments. Applicants must have a GPA above 3.25 and have completed one year of undergraduate coursework. The Barnes Foundation is a museum located in downtown Philadelphia. Brandywine River Museum of Art, located in Chadds Ford, is an American art museum with internships in collections, curatorial, education, research and digital imaging departments. The Institute of Contemporary Art is a part of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. All departments of the museum offer internships. Fallingwater, the iconic home built by Frank Lloyd Wright offers internships. Mattress Factory Art Museum is a contemporary art museum in Pittsburgh containing room installations designed by various artists. Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts has an outstanding collection of American art in downtown Philadelphia. Philadelphia Museum of Art is one of the largest museums in the United States, known for its excellent collection of European and American paintings, drawings, decorative objects and prints. The Museum Studies Internship Program intern works in a museum department and participates in the museum studies colloquium. Applicants must be enrolled undergraduates, have a GPA of 3.0 or better and have completed sophomore year. Puerto Rico Museo de Arte de Ponce is a museum in Ponce that houses European art and Puerto Rican art. Museo de Arte de Puerto Rico is a large museum in Santurce housing art from the 17th century. Rhode Island Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology is the anthropology museum of Brown University. The museum offers summer internships to undergraduate and graduate students. Interns tend to work in the education, public relations, conservation or collections management departments. A modest stipend is provided, and interns can also receive academic credit. Newport Art Museum is a medium-sized museum with an excellent collection of 19th-century American art. Internships are offered in the development, curatorial, marketing research, communications, education, administration, retail sales and finance departments. The Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) Museum, located in Providence, offers summer internships. These 10-week internships are designed for students with limited museum experience. Interns engage in weekly seminars and participate in public functions as well as behind-the-scenes operations. Warwick Center for the Arts is a nonprofit art institution offering summer internships. The summer session runs from June to August. South Carolina Columbia Museum of Art is a medium-sized museum with a strong collection of Renaissance and Baroque art. Internships are available in the education, social media, development and digital imaging departments and in the museum shop. Gibbes Museum of Art in Charleston offers internships in the education, curatorial and programming departments. South Dakota South Dakota Museum of Art is a medium-sized museum with a collection of American and Native American art. Located in Brookings, the museum offers summer internships. Tennessee Dixon Gallery and Gardens is a Memphis museum containing impressionist and post-impressionist works. Frist Center for the Visual Arts in Nashville offers summer internships. Hunter Museum of American Art is located in Chattanooga. Knoxville Museum of Art is a small museum that shows art created by eastern Tennessee artists. Memphis Brooks Museum of Art is a medium-sized museum with a strong collection of English portraits. Texas Ballroom Marfa is a nonprofit visual arts institution situated in western Texas. Internship opportunities are posted at various times throughout the year. The Chinati Foundation/La Fundación Chinati is a contemporary art museum based upon the ideas of its founder, Donald Judd. Since 1990, the Chinati Foundation's Internship Program has provided hands-on museum experience to more than 240 students, recent graduates and young professionals from a variety of backgrounds and disciplines. Dallas Museum of Art is a large museum with an extensive collection and strong education program. Four internship positions are available for the Summer Art Camp. Houston Center for Photography is a nonprofit photography gallery. Applicants must be enrolled undergraduates and interested in the visual arts. Kimbell Art Museum, located in Fort Worth, is a small institution known for its collection of impressionist art and its iconic building. Applicants must be enrolled undergraduates concentrating in art history, art studio or museum studies. Five applicants are selected each year. The Menil Collection, in Houston, has an eccentric but high-quality collection. The Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth offers internship opportunities in various departments. Museum of Fine Arts, Houston is an encyclopedic museum which offers summer internships. Applicants must be enrolled undergraduates or recently graduated. Rothko Chapel is a spiritual, contemplative environment that showcases canvases created by Mark Rothko. Internship opportunities are posted at various times throughout the year. Summer internships run from June to August. San Antonio Museum of Art has a strong collection of Latin American art and Asian art. Utah Chase Home Museum of Utah Folk Arts is located in Salt Lake City. Springville Museum of Art has strong collections of Russian art and art by Utah artists. Internships are available in the education, communications and curatorial departments. Utah Museum of Contemporary Art in Salt Lake City offers internships in the curatorial, development, communications, education, preparatory and visitor services departments. The summer session runs from late May to early August. Vermont Bennington Museum has an excellent collection of art from Vermont, New York and Massachusetts. Brattleboro Museum and Art Center is a non-collecting education center. A summer internship is available in the operations department. Chaffee Art Center in Rutland offers a gallery assistant internship. The intern engages in general office duties and hanging and deconstruction of exhibitions. Fleming Museum of Art is the University of Vermont's museum in Burlington. It houses a strong collection of European art and art from ancient Egypt. Main Street Museum is located in White River Junction. Museum of the Creative Process in Manchester Village combines psychology and art. Shelburne Museum has a strong collection of folk art, decorative and American art. Internships are offered. Southern Vermont Arts Center is an art complex in Manchester with an education center, house galleries and a museum. St. Johnsbury Athenaeum is a small art gallery housing Hudson River school drawings and 18th-century European art. Virginia Chrysler Museum of Art in Norfolk has an encyclopedic collection. Colonial Williamsburg is an entire colonial town with diverse collections in fine arts, decorative arts and American history. Fralin Museum of Art is the art museum of the University of Virginia in Charlottesville. Kluge-Ruhe Aboriginal Art Collection is the Australian Aboriginal art collection of the University of Virginia. Internships are offered seasonally. Taubman Museum of Art is a medium-sized museum in Roanoke with a strong collection of American art. Internships are offered in the education, curatorial, marketing, communications and special events departments. Interns engage in weekly discussions with museum staff and cultural field trips to other art institutions. Virginia Museum of Fine Arts is located in Richmond and features an encyclopedic collection. Internships are offered in the curatorial, collections management, development, art reference, education, marketing and communications departments. Washington Bellevue Arts Museum focuses on changing exhibitions related to art, craft and design. It has an array of internship opportunities. Seattle Art Museum consists of the main facility (known as the Seattle Art Museum), the Seattle Asian Art Museum and Olympic Sculpture Park. Internships are available in the curatorial, education and public programs, libraries and communications departments. Applicants must be enrolled undergraduates who have completed one year of college. Interns may earn academic credit. Washington, D.C. The Center for Hellenic Studies is devoted to the scholarly pursuit of the Hellenic civilization. Corcoran Gallery of Art is known for its superb collection of American art. Foundation of the American Institute for Conservation (FAIC) offers the chance to train with professional conservators at a conservation lab in the U.S. (e.g. National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.; Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; Brooklyn Museum; Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco). The Library of Congress is the largest library in the United States. National Building Museum is dedicated to architecture. National Museum of Women in the Arts is a museum devoted to performance art, literary art and visual art created by women, and offers internships. In particular, you might consider the Coca-Cola Endowed Internship and the Elizabeth Stafford Hutchinson Endowed Internship (ESHEI). National Gallery of Art is one of the world's great collections. It and its attached Sculpture Garden, is a national art museum in Washington, D.C., located on the National Mall The National Museum of the American Indian is a major exhibition space for Native art and material culture as well as a center for educational activities and performances. National Portrait Gallery has the mission to tell the story of America by portraying the people who shape the nation's history, development and culture. The Smithsonian is a coalition of 19 museums in the United States. Each museum has specific application requirements. The Smithsonian Institution,Washington D.C. (including Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Freer-Sackler Galleries, Museum of African Art, Museum of American Art, Archives of American Art, National Portrait Gallery, Cooper-Hewitt Museum, Renwick Gallery). Consider also the Katzenberger Foundation Art History Internship Program with the Smithsonian Institution selects six interns each year. Archives of American Art. Freer and Sackler Galleries are two Asian art museums (Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the Freer Gallery of Art) of the Smithsonian that offer a mix of internships. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden showcases modern and contemporary sculpture and art and offers summer internships. National Museum of African American History and Culture offers internships. Smithsonian American Art Museum is dedicated to American art and offers internships. Wisconsin John Michael Kohler Arts Center is a nonprofit interdisciplinary art institution that offers internships seasonally Madison Museum of Contemporary Art (MMoCA) is known for its collection of 20th- and 21st-century art. Summer internships are offered in various departments. If selected, interns must work during Art Fair on the Square. Milwaukee Art Museum is a small museum with an excellent collection of Haitian, folk and American decorative arts. Wyoming Nicolaysen Art Museum, located in Casper, is a small museum that collects contemporary art from the Rocky Mountain region. Whitney Western Art Museum is a small Smithsonian-affiliated museum located within the Buffalo Bill Center of the West, in Cody. The museum focuses on Western art from the 19th century to the present. Careers in Art History Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities Graduate Study Tell Us Your Story Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Art History Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback