Skip to main content Florida State University | College of Fine Arts PROGRAMS Department of Art Department of Art Education Department of Art History Department of Interior Architecture and Design School of Dance School of Theatre Museum of Fine Arts Facility for Arts Research FSU/Asolo Conservatory for Actor Training Maggie Allesee National Center for Choreography EVENTS NEWS TICKETS APPLY GIVE This is your Donation message. Log In Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Toggle navigation Home About About Art History Anti-Racism and Equity in Art History Bylaws Committees & Groups History of the Department Land Acknowledgment Graduate About Apply MA in Art History MA in Museum & Cultural Heritage Studies PhD in Art History Fields of Study Funding Graduate Handbook Undergrad About Apply BA in Art History Finances Internships Minors Courses Undergraduate Courses – Summer/Fall 2022 Graduate Courses – Fall 2022 People Faculty & Staff PhD Students MA Students Alumni Dissertations Visiting Scholars Student Awards & Groups News News & Events Events Videos Opportunity Blog Submit News Exhibitions Newsletter Archive Newsletter Signup 38th Annual Art History Graduate Student Symposium Resources All Resources Facilities & Technology Media Center Room Schedules Contact Alumni Video Project Contact Us Social Media Site Map Giving About About Art History Anti-Racism and Equity in Art History Bylaws Committees & Groups History of the Department Land Acknowledgment Graduate About Apply MA in Art History MA in Museum & Cultural Heritage Studies PhD in Art History Fields of Study Funding Graduate Handbook Undergrad About Apply BA in Art History Finances Internships Minors Courses Undergraduate Courses – Summer/Fall 2022 Graduate Courses – Fall 2022 People Faculty & Staff PhD Students MA Students Alumni Dissertations Visiting Scholars Student Awards & Groups News News & Events Events Videos Opportunity Blog Submit News Exhibitions Newsletter Archive Newsletter Signup 38th Annual Art History Graduate Student Symposium Resources All Resources Facilities & Technology Media Center Room Schedules Contact Alumni Video Project Contact Us Social Media Site Map Giving X × Art History News April 29, 2022 Our Newest Alumni: Meet the 2022 Art History Graduates We are proud to introduce the 2022 Art History graduates! The following recipients of BA, MA, and PhD degrees in Art History excelled in their coursework, extracurricular, and professional activities in a period of constant change… READ MORE » April 28, 2022 Doctoral Student Sheila Scoville Attends Research Progr … Doctoral student Sheila Scoville has been accepted into the 2022 Plant Humanities Summer Program at Dumbarton Oaks. She also recently traveled to Chicago to attend a research methods workshop for early-career graduate students at the Newberry Library, “New Spain at the Newberry Library: Demystifying Colonial Documents from the Ayer Collection.” READ MORE » Doctoral Student Tess McCoy Invited to Present Research … Doctoral student Tess McCoy has been invited to present a paper at the Inuit Studies Conference 2022: Auviqsaqtut in June in Winnipeg, Canada. Her paper “’From the Body, Land, Sea and Air:’ Collaboration Knows No Bounds,” looks at the distance residency between two contemporary Circumpolar Indigenous artists, Sonya Kelliher-Combs (Iñupiaq/Athabaskan/ Irish/German) and Maureen Gruben (Inuvialuk). READ MORE » April 26, 2022 Doctoral Candidate Julia Kershaw Receives Fulbright Awa … Doctoral candidate Julia Kershaw is one of ten FSU recipients of Fulbright Student Awards for international research in the 2022–23 academic year. The award will support Julia’s dissertation research at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, and other museums and archives in Brazil. READ MORE » April 21, 2022 Graduating MA Student Yatil Etherly Curates Exhibition … This spring, Museum & Cultural Heritage Studies graduate student Yatil Etherly curated the exhibition Thinking in 3D: Utilizing the Future to Reimagine the Past, on display through the summer of 2022 in the Art & Design Library (WJB 2020). READ MORE » April 18, 2022 Winbury Essay Award Winners Sheila Scoville, Amanda Bri … Congratulations to Amanda Brito and Sheila Scoville, winners of the 2022 I.N. Winbury Award for excellence in research and writing. Based on evaluation of papers by a panel of fellow students, the award is presented annually to one PhD student and one MA student – and this year to one MA Honorable Mention, Quentin Clark. READ MORE » More News » Art history is a globally engaged discourse that aims to tell the stories of world arts, architectures, and visual cultures from many perspectives. We celebrate the rich inheritance of our human differences and seek to foster a scholarly environment that emphasizes inclusivity, intellectual curiosity, and compassion. Globally Engaged Our students investigate humanity’s relationship to the world: how we perceive, participate in, and represent our physical, social, religious, philosophical, political, and artistic environments. Contact » Programs » News » Land Acknowledgment 50 Years of Graduate Education 15+ Undergraduate Courses Offered Per Semester 37 Years of Graduate Student Symposia 14 Full-Time Faculty Members Learn More Facilities Map Apply Contact Faculty and Staff » Current Courses » Resources » Come See What We're All About Schedule a Tour Visitor Information Undergrad Application Graduate Application What's Happening in Art History Our Newest Alumni: Meet the 2022 Art History Graduates April 29, 2022 Doctoral Student Sheila Scoville Attends Research Progr … April 28, 2022 Doctoral Student Tess McCoy Invited to Present Research … Doctoral Candidate Julia Kershaw Receives Fulbright Awa … April 26, 2022 Graduating MA Student Yatil Etherly Curates Exhibition … April 21, 2022 More News » Our Newest Alumni: Meet the 2022 Art History Graduates April 29, 2022 We are proud to introduce the 2022 Art History graduates! The following recipients of BA, MA, and PhD degrees in Art History excelled in their coursework, extracurricular, and professional activities in a period of constant change... Read More https://vimeo.com/384602450?loop=0 Art History Vimeo» More Events » Newsletter Sign Up » > Toggle navigation Home About About Art History Anti-Racism and Equity in Art History Bylaws Committees & Groups History of the Department Land Acknowledgment Graduate About Apply MA in Art History MA in Museum & Cultural Heritage Studies PhD in Art History Fields of Study Funding Graduate Handbook Undergrad About Apply BA in Art History Finances Internships Minors Courses Undergraduate Courses – Summer/Fall 2022 Graduate Courses – Fall 2022 People Faculty & Staff PhD Students MA Students Alumni Dissertations Visiting Scholars Student Awards & Groups News News & Events Events Videos Opportunity Blog Submit News Exhibitions Newsletter Archive Newsletter Signup 38th Annual Art History Graduate Student Symposium Resources All Resources Facilities & Technology Media Center Room Schedules Contact Alumni Video Project Contact Us Social Media Site Map Giving Art History Social Media Report web issues English Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Dutch English French German Italian Portuguese Russian Spanish © 2022 Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 FSU Social Media: This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT Name First Last Email Department or Program of Interest Request Information on All Programs Department of Interest* Department of ArtDepartment of Art EducationDepartment of Art HistoryDepartment of Interior Architecture and DesignSchool of DanceSchool of TheatreUnsure / All Programs Start an Application Request Information No Thanks - I just want to learn more Additional Comments CAPTCHA Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ CLOSE Name First Last Email Department or Program of Interest Request Information on All Programs Department of Interest* Department of ArtDepartment of Art EducationDepartment of Art HistoryDepartment of Interior Architecture and DesignSchool of DanceSchool of TheatreUnsure / All Programs Start an Application Request Information No Thanks - I just want to learn more Additional Comments CAPTCHA Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ CLOSE X X