Skip to main content Home Search News Events People Faculty Emeritus Lecturers Adjunct Affiliated Students Associates & Fellows Visiting Staff Undergraduate Program Requirements Senior Essay Prizes and Awards FAQ Opportunities Admissions Academic Calendar Links Courses Graduate Graduate Admissions Dissertations Contacts by Field of Study Courses Links Red Book Alumni Admissions About Department Contacts Welcome From The Chair Diversity Statement Our Location Resources Home News Events People Undergraduate Graduate Alumni Admissions About Resources Search Graduate seminar in the Yale Center for British Art Kyoto Kano School, Japan, Scenes from the Tale of Genji, 1625-1650. Yale University Art Gallery Undergraduate seminar in the Yale University Art Gallery Haida, Northwest Coast, Canada. Basketry hat. Peabody Museum, Yale University Frederic Edwin Church, Mt. Ktaadn, 1853. Yale University Art Gallery Students at the Metropolitan Museum with Prof Robert Nelson’s course Art of Byzantium, 850-1200, Fall 2015 Robert Smithson, Spiral Jetty, 1970, Great Salt Lake, Utah Undergraduate seminar with Prof. Nicola Suthor in the Prints and Drawings Study Room, Yale University Art Gallery Tino di Camaino, Three Princesses, ca. 1325-35, Yale University Art Gallery Museum and the Nation seminar taught by Prof Kishwar Rivzi at I.M.Pei’s Museum of Islamic Art, in Doha, Qatar Welcome Welcome to the History of Art Department website Here you will find information about the people who make up the Department – faculty and graduate students – with descriptions of our fields of research. Also featured are listings of many student- and faculty-organized events. In the past these have taken place in our Department’s home at the Loria Center in New Haven, but at present, all are on line. Among the highlights this year were our Yale Alumni Research Forum and the Art/Race/Violence Colloquium. In the future, we hope to return to our in-person events, while retaining some of our on-line programing, which will continue to allow people from all over the world to have a chance to share in our work. Read more about Welcome News Professor Subhashini Kaligotla forthcoming book wins grants Professor Subhashini Kaligotla forthcoming book wins grants March 23, 2022 Professor Subhashini Kaligotla’s forthcoming book wins grants from CAA’s Millard Meiss Publication Fund and the Ludo and Rosane Rocher Foundation for the Advancement of Classical Indology. Read more about Professor Subhashini Kaligotla forthcoming book wins grants Remembering Robert Farris Thompson Remembering Robert Farris Thompson December 21, 2021 From Bárbaro Martinez-Ruiz, Tanner-Opperman Chair of African Art History in Honor of Roy Sieber Indiana University and Research Associate / Institute of Social and Cultural Anthropology, University of Oxford Read more about Remembering Robert Farris Thompson Professor Robert Farris Thompson 1932-2021 Professor Robert Farris Thompson 1932-2021 December 1, 2021 Read more about Professor Robert Farris Thompson 1932-2021 More News Events No events to display. Vist our facebook! Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2018 Yale University · All rights reserved • Login Site Contact: kari.coyle@yale.edu