Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Art History About the banner image Department of Art History Contact Us Facebook Art.History@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Back to Top Nav Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next We warmly congratulate Professor Elizabeth Kassler-Taub We warmly congratulate Professor Elizabeth Kassler-Taub, who was awarded Membership in the School of Historical Studies at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, NJ for the spring of 2023 Professor Mary Coffey on Orozco's American Epic Join Professor of Art History Mary Coffey, as she takes us on a journey through the Baker Library lower level reading room to learn more about one of Dartmouth's most treasured works, The Epic of American Civilization. Congratulations to Professor Sunglim Kim Congratulations to Professor Sunglim Kim, who has been awarded a prestigious Korean Studies Grant for 2020 by the Academy of Korean Studies. Professor Kim and her collaborators will use the grant for the development of educational videos to advance the study of modern Korean art. Congratulations to Professor Elizabeth Kassler-Taub Congratulations to Professor Elizabeth Kassler-Taub, who was awarded a Short-Term Fellowship from the John Carter Brown Library at Brown University to work with rare books, maps, and manuscripts from the early modern Americas. Professor Kassler-Taub also received a prestigious RSA-Samuel H. Kress Research Fellowship in Renaissance Art History by the Renaissance Society of America (RSA). Warmest congratulations to our graduating majors and minors! Congratulations to Professor Nick Camerlenghi Congratulations to Professor Nick Camerlenghi, who was awarded a prestigious NEH-Mellon Fellowship for Digital Publication. Professor Camerlenghi will use the fellowship in preparation for a virtual reality experience of the Basilica of St. Paul's Outside the Walls in Rome as it appeared in seven historical periods. Coffey Receives Faculty Award For Teaching, Scholarship, Mentoring Art History Professor Mary Coffey, interim LALACS chair, is one of fourteen members of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences recognized for exceptional achievement in scholarship, teaching, and mentoring for 2020. Warmest congratulations to our graduating majors and minors! Meet our Graduating Majors and Minors. Chad Elias promoted to the rank of Associate Professor with Tenure Mary Coffey Promoted to the Rank of Professor Recent Publications view all What Do People See in The Tale of Genji. in Murasaki Shikibu. The Tale of Genji: A New Translation Contexts and Criticisms Allen Hockley Translated and Edited by Dennis C. Washburn. Norton Critical Editions. New York: W.W. Norton & Company, 2021: 1251-1267. Nicola Camerlenghi, et al. Interactive Noli Map Website 2.0 Nicola Camerlenghi https://nolli.stanford.edu/ published in the summer of 2021. Inconvenient Globalism: Method Making at the Margins of Art History Elizabeth A. Kassler-Taub Modern Philology 119, n. 1 (August 2021), Multiplicities: Recasting the Early Modern Global, pp. 33-60. The Lion of Belfort, Max Ernst's Une semaine de bonté, and the Uses of the Past Katie Hornstein Nineteenth-Century French Studies 49 (3/4: Spring-Summer 2021): 282-304. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Art History Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback