Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Art History Department of Art History Contact Us Facebook Art.History@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Back to Top Nav Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Nicola Camerlenghi |Associate Professor Academic Appointments Associate Professor of Architectural History Connect with Us Facebook Professor Camerlenghi's interests include early Christian and medieval architecture with a particular focus on the city of Rome; the diffusion and cultural significance of domes in the area around the medieval Mediterranean; the interplay between nature and architecture. He is particularly invested in approaching these topics through digital tools, such as Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality, GIS Mapping, 3D Modeling, Photogrammetry and Laser Scanning. Nick Camerlenghi teaches seminars and topic courses on medieval architecture around the Mediterranean and the department's foreign study program in Rome. View Curriculum Vitae Contact Nicola.M.Camerlenghi@Dartmouth.edu 603-646-0924 205 Carpenter Hall HB 6033 Education B.A. Yale University S.M.Arch.S. Massachusetts Institute of Technology M.A. and Ph.D. Princeton University Areas of Expertise Early Christian and medieval architecture /Topography and Urbanism of Rome /VR, AR and GIS in Architectural History /History of domes /Food and art Selected Publications St. Paul’s Outside the Walls: A Roman Basilica, from Antiquity to the Modern Era, Cambridge University Press, 2018. reviewed: Olof Brandt, Rivista di Archeologia Cristiana 95 (2019), 475-481. Michele Luigi Vescovi, Journal of the British Archaeological Association 172 (2019) - Issue 1. Kordula Wolf, Kunstforum 20 (2019), No. 9. Julian Gardner, Burlington Magazine, vol. 161, num. 1399 (2019), 877-878. Hugo Brandenburg, Römischische Quartlaschrift, vol. 114, n. 3/4 (2020), 248-274. William Tronzo, Speculum, vol. 95, n. 3 (2020), 810-811. Joseph Connors, Renaissance Quarterly, vol. 73, n. 1 (2020), 219-220. Dale Kinney, Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians, vol. 80, n.4 (2021), 478-480. Virtual Nolli 2.0 (Funded in part by the Neukom Institute, Dartmouth College) "The Millennial Gap in Dome Construction in Rome," in Gesta 58, no. 2 (2019): 103-35. “Just How Long are the Lives of Medieval Buildings? Framing Spatio-temporalities in the Study of the Built World” in The Long Lives of Medieval Art and Architecture, ed. Jennifer Feltman and Sarah Thompson (New York: Routledge Press, 2019), 17-30. reviewed: Elizabeth Carson Pastan, The Medieval Review, 21.09.12 “Learning from Rome: Making Sense of Complex Builtscapes in the Digital Age,” Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians 77 (2018): 256-66. Co-authored with Georg Schelbert. “Liturgical Revolution at the Basilica of S. Paolo Fuori le Mura (1560-1610),” in Monuments & Memory, Christian Cult Buildings and Constructions of the Past, Mariëtte Verhoeven et al. eds. (Turnhout: Brepols, 2016), 329-336 "Terroir and Architecture," in At Table: Dialogues on Food and Architecture, ed. by Samantha Martin-McAuliffe (London: Berg, 2016), 23-41. "Splitting the Core: The Twelfth-Century Transverse Wall at the Basilica of San Paolo in Rome." Memoirs of the American Academy in Rome, vol. 58 (2013). "The Longue Durée and the Life of Buildings," in New Approaches to Medieval Architecture, ed. by Robert Bork et al. (Burlington: Ashgate, 2011). reviewed: Caroline Bruzelius, The Medieval Review, 12.03.25 + View more Speaking Engagements Upcoming Talks: Keynote speaker at 6th International Society for Intermedial Studies Conference, "Virtual Presence. Between and Beyond Medieval Artistic Media," Trinity College, Dublin (September 1-3, 2022) "New Affordances of Digital Visualization and Simulation in the Arts of Italy" at Renaissance Society of America Conference (Dublin), Co-organizer and respondent. December, 2022. Recent Talks: "The Pedagogic Potentials of Digital Approaches to Medieval Art and Architecture," Digital Pedagogy Talk sponsored by the International Center of Medieval Art, May 24th, 12PM ET Mark Sponenburgh Lecturer, "Sculpture at the Basilica of St. Paul in Rome: A Digital Approach to 1,600 Years of History," Department of the History of Art and Architecture, University of Oregon, May 17, 2022 "Mapping the Skyline of Medieval Rome," ISA Lecture, Università della Svizzera Italiana, Accademia di Architettura, April 27, 2022 "The Interactive Nolli Map of Rome 2.0," (with Mapping Rome Team), Mapping Cultural Heritage: Exploring Spaces Conference, École française d'Athènes, April 8, 2022 Online book launch for Alison Perchuk, The Medieval Monastery of Saint Elijah: A History in Paint and Stone. Friday Feb. 25 at 2PM ET "The Virtual Basilica of St. Paul in Rome as a Humanistic Tool," at Visualising Digital Humanities Conference @ STUDIOTEC, September 7, 2021. "Riflessioni sulle Ricostruzioni Digitali nello Studio di Storia dell'Arte Medievale: Il Caso della Basilica di San Paolo," Università La Sapienza, Roma, June 10, 2021. "Mapping Medieval Rome," Research Seminar, BIbliotheca Hertziana, Rome, May 27, 2021. "The Intermediality of Virtual Reality and its Application to Visualization and Analysis: Case Studies from the Architecture of Rome" at (Italian) Media Studies Today" Conference, The Ohio State University, May 6-7, 2021. "Towering over Rome: 3D Mapping the City’s Network of Surveillance and Power" in "Digital Approaches to Mapping and 3D Modelling of Medieval and Renaissance Urban Environments in the Mediterranean Area" session & Participant in "Linking projects: Beyond LOD – Interconnections of Digital Projects with Digital Infrastructure" Roundtable session, Renaissance Society of America Conference, Dublin, April 15 & 20, 2021. Conversazioni/Conversations "The City of Rome: Urban Infrastructure and Urban Form from Medieval to Early Modern Times." with Pamela O. Long, American Academy in Rome, April 13, 2021. "Visualizing Complexities: Practices and Heuristics of Digital Models in Art History," Bibliotheca Hertziana, Rome, Dec 10-11, 2020. (Co-organizer and speaker) Works In Progress Towering over Late Medieval and Early Renaissance Rome: 3D Mapping the City’s Network of Surveillance and Power (Digital Humanities Fellow, Villa I Tatti, Florence, January-June 2021) The Virtual Basilica Project, 2.0 (an annotated, diachronic and dynamic VR experience of the Basilica of St. Paul in Rome before the fire of 1823) (Funded by an NEH-Mellon Fellowships for Digital Publication). Version 1.0 available here. Research Collaborator for Corpus Cosmatorum: The Churches of the City or Rome in the Middle Ages, 1050-1300. Project based at Università della Svizzera Italiana and Universität Zürich. Augmented Dartmouth and Eyenotes (Download AR interface for culture objects on campus) (Funded by the Samuel H. Kress Foundation, the Office of the Provost, and the Leslie Center of Dartmouth College) “A Framework for the Study of Early Medieval Domes in Italy.” "Visualizing Complexities: Practices and Heuristics of Digital Models in Art History," co-editor of a digital conference proceedings, through the Bibliotheca Hertziana, Rome Buy the book at cambridge.org/us/academic/subjects/religion/church-history/st-pauls-outside-walls-roman-basilica-antiquity-modern-era?format=HB Distribution of Subject Matter Distribution of Subject Matterdistribution_of_subject_matter_of_art_history_courses_2.9.22.pdf Teaching with Virtual Reality at Mt. Holyoke College Teaching for Dartmouth at St. Paul's Basilica in Rome Teaching Pisano's doors in Florence Helping to conduct a photo shoot of Filarete's doors at St. Peter's Basilica in Rome (Photo by Robert Glass). Collaboration with students in the Dartmouth Rome Lab Laying out a half-scale plan of Troyes' St. Urbain on Dartmouth's campus (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Enological studies over Urbania, Italy. La Famiglia (as of 2018) PreviousNext Video of ljHEPsiMv0k Basilica demo cut PreviousNext Courses Art History 1, Bodies and Buildings: Introduction to the History of Art in the Ancient World and the Middle Ages Art History 4, Introduction to World Architecture Art History 12.02, Roman Architecture Art History 17.01, Rome: The Eternal City Art History 17.05, Castles, Cloisters and Cathedrals Art History 17.06, The Arts of the Middle Ages Art History 38.04, Food & Art: A Global History Art History 62.71, Islamic Architecture Art History 80.02, Advanced Seminar: Domes + View more Related Links St. Paul's Outside the Walls: A Virtual Basilica Nolli Map Engine 2.0 Mapping Rome Images of Rome: The Rodolfo Lanciani Digital Archive The Urban Legacy of Ancient Rome: Photographs from the Ernest Nash Fototeca Unione Collection Augmented Dartmouth Application (for Android and Apple) Academia.edu + View more Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Art History Undergraduate Major, Minor and Modifications Overview Honors Courses Distribution of Subject Areas Foreign Study Careers & Opportunities Careers in Art History College-level teaching Museum Work Publishing and Freelance Writing Art Librarian and Visual Resource Librarian Secondary Education Art and Architectural Preservation and Conservation Art Galleries / Auction Houses Corporate Art Curator and Art Investment Art Law Governmental Agencies Internships in Museums, Galleries, & Auction Houses Museum, Gallery Internships & Select Fieldwork in the United States Internships and Field Experience outside the United States Fellowships and Opportunities External Fellowships Internal (Dartmouth-Based) Fellowships Graduate Study How to choose where to apply? The Application Financial Aid, Fellowships, and Grants Appendix Tell Us Your Story News & Events Overview Riley Lecture Rosenthal Lecture Visual Resources Overview User Guide History Acknowledgments People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback