Jump to navigation Princeton University Art Museum Toggle Search Search form Search Visit Overview Art@Bainbridge Art on Hulfish Collections Explore Search Curatorial Areas African Art American Art Ancient, Byzantine, and Islamic Art Art of the Ancient Americas Asian Art Campus Collections European Art Modern and Contemporary Art Photography Prints and Drawings Exhibitions Current & Upcoming Past Exhibitions Support May is Membership Month Membership More Ways to Give Museum Program Support GIfts of Art Gala Learn Explore Self-Guided Family Activities Teacher Resources Online Exhibitions Online Activities Museum Videos Mobile Tours Collections Themes Participate University Students Volunteer Opportunities Museum Travel Program Faculty-Curated Exhibitions Museum Voices Colloquium Art Making Art for Families Online Drawing Classes Online Painting Classes Schedule a Tour or Visit Group Programs Study Room Guidelines University Visits Teach Accessing the Collections Princeton University Group Visits Mellon Faculty Stipends Now See This About Director's Welcome New Museum History Annual Reports Museum Store Employment Opportunities Staff Directory Press Room Leadership Calendar Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Observing Color in the Everyday Title Calendar Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Observing Color in the Everyday Thursday, June 2, 2022 @ 8:00 pm The Museum is partnering with the Arts Council of Princeton to provide free online drawing classes. Weekly classes are taught by artist-instructor Barbara DiLorenzo over Zoom. Each week’s lesson is inspired by a work in the Museum’s collections. This live art-making class is inspired by Odilon Redon’s Vase of Flowers. By 1890, Redon was concentrating exclusively on the lyrically suggestive possibilities of color, creating atmospheric pastels of imaginary floral arrangements and sleeping figures. In this session we will explore how to achieve a range of colors by layering them. We will create lush flowers with two or three layers of color. Free registration via Zoom here. (when prompted, click to sign in as “attendee”) This event will include live closed captions in both English and Spanish. English captions are available directly in the Zoom toolbar by clicking the "CC" icon. To access Spanish-language captioning, open Streamtext, where you can select “Spanish” to see the live captioning. Para acceder a los subtítulos en varios idiomas, ingrese al seminario web de Zoom durante un evento en vivo, luego abra un navegador web separado para visitar esta página donde puede seleccionar "español" o el idioma de su elección. Materials List for colored pencil classes LATE THURSDAYS! This event is part of the Museum’s Late Thursdays programming, made possible in part by Heather and Paul G. Haaga Jr., Class of 1970. Additional support for this program has been provided by the New Jersey State Council on the Arts, a partner agency of the National Endowment for the Arts, and the Curtis W. McGraw Foundation. Odilon Redon, Vase of Flowers, ca. 1900–1910. Princeton University Art Museum. Gift of Edward R. Schaible, Class of 1934 Princeton University Art Museum Princeton, NJ 08544 609.258.3788 ALWAYS FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Terms and Conditions Contact FAQ Press Log In Signup for our enewsletter * Email Address * © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University