Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > Department of English and Creative Writing > Research at TU Research at TU https://youtu.be/nBJ0RZwChY8 English & Creative Writing English Undergraduate Programs English Graduate Programs University Writing Program Faculty News Contact the Department The University of Tulsa is well known for its extensive archival holdings, making it an ideal location for graduate study. The Helmerich Center for American Research at Gilcrease Museum houses the Gilcrease Library and Archive containing more than 100,000 rare books, documents, maps, and unpublished works. The collection includes a vast archive of printed documents dating back to the time of Columbus and detailing Spanish arrival in the New World, as well as documents that tell the stories of the New England colonies, Westward expansion and the experiences of America’s native peoples. The Helmerich Center is also home to the Bob Dylan Archive, which includes over 6,000 items from Dylan’s personal collection, including handwritten manuscripts, notebooks and correspondence, films, videos, photographs and artwork, memorabilia, personal documents, and unrecorded song lyrics and chords. In addition, Special Collections at the University of Tulsa’s McFarlin Library holds manuscripts, personal papers and first editions that rank alongside those of Harvard, Yale, and the Ransom Humanities Research Center as the preeminent archives of twentieth-century literature in the world. Rare and thorough collections of nineteenth-century fiction and poetry, women’s literature, popular literature, oil patch history, Native American tribal history and law, and Native American literature combine with contemporary holdings to establish McFarlin as a world-class archival library for literary study. Among these distinct and incomparable collections are: The James Joyce Collection of Harriet Shaw Weaver which includes early editions with autographs and notes, Augustus John lithographs of Joyce, and Matisse illustrations of Ulysses. The Richard Ellmann Papers, which include Ellmann’s research notes and files on Joyce, Yeats, Wilde, and Beckett. The Life-Archive of V.S. Naipaul, a vast collection of existing and future manuscripts and papers of the author, including his correspondence, personal and family files and letters, and his annotated reading library. The Jean Rhys Archive of virtually all of her surviving manuscripts, personal papers and correspondence. The Modern Authors Collection of twentieth-century fiction and poetry manuscripts, correspondence and/or early texts and editions of authors such as Stephen Crane, Margaret Drabble, John Dos Passos, T.S. Eliot, William Faulkner, F. Scott Fitzgerald, John Fowles, Fugitive Poets (Ransom, Tate, Penn Warren et al), Robert Frost, Robert Graves, Graham Greene, Thom Gunn, Ernest Hemingway, Washington Irving, D.H. Lawrence, Doris Lessing, Malcolm Lowry, Norman Mailer, Katherine Mansfield, Richard Murphy, Ezra Pound, Anthony Powell, Jean Rhys, Laura (Riding) Jackson, Dorothy Richardson, Siegfried Sassoon, Paul Scott, Stevie Smith, Muriel Spark, Gertrude Stein, John Steinbeck, James Stephens, Wallace Stevens, Elizabeth Taylor, Alice B. Toklas, William Trevor, Kurt Vonnegut, Evelyn Warner, Rebecca West, and Walt Whitman. The Proletarian Literature Collection of radical and working-class fiction, poetry, drama and periodicals, which focuses on the Depression years and includes “lost” African American writers. The Vietnam War Literature Collection of fiction and poetry by American and African American authors. The Edmund Wilson Library representing Wilson’s interests in literature and cultural affairs, including the Nabokov-Wilson letters, and rare hand-printed editions of Anais Nin’s early works. The Cyril Connolly Library of “Modern Movement” authors, 1,000 periodicals from the First World War through the 1970s, and numerous letters from Stephen Spender, T.S. Eliot, W.H. Auden, and John Betjeman. The Martin Secker Collection of documents and correspondence related to the publication of modernists like Henry James, Thomas Mann, D.H. Lawrence, Compton McKenzie, and Conrad Aiken. The Rupert Hart-Davis Library which contains a complete Edmund Blunden collection and a rare collection of First World War poets, including women poets of the period. The Edwardian Fiction Collection which includes a large group of little-known popular women writers as well as H.G. Wells, G.K. Chesterton, and John Galsworthy. The Factory House Library of Nineteenth-Century Fiction, a complete, intact, circulating library of “popular” fiction from the period 1820-1890 representing democratic trends in fiction. It includes titles by 175 Romantic and Victorian women novelists. The Kenneth Hopkins Collection of 5,000 volumes of British and Irish poetry of the late eighteenth, nineteenth and twentieth centuries. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT