Skip to content COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK Search for: Contact Us Support Us Arts Initiative at Columbia University Search for: Free & Discounted Tickets Performances Museums Movies Events Events Calendar Columbia Nights Morningside Lights Museum Exhibitions For Students Student Arts Grants Ticket Your Event Submit Your Event For Faculty ArtsLink About Mission & Team About the TIC Contact Us Support Us Home Connect with the arts Stay connected with the arts at Columbia and throughout NYC through weekly email updates from the Arts Initiative. Get email Updates Featured event Eddie Palmieri Salsa Orchestra Learn basic salsa dance steps and then put them in action! Dancers of any ability level… Lincoln Center - Josie Robertson… June 01, 2022 | 6:00 pm LEARN MORE Featured event People on Earth As epic as it is intimate, People on Earth takes us on a three-hundred-million-year journey from… Lenfest Center for the Arts June 03, 2022 | 2:30 pm LEARN MORE Discover joy, reflection, and connection through the arts Since 2004, the Arts Initiative has connected Columbians with incredible arts experiences on campus and throughout the larger arts landscape of New York City. Featured event The African Grove: Locating the Legacy of… Hear a conversation about The African Grove, likely the first Black Theater in the US, founded in 1821. Leading critics and scholars illuminate the brief life of this moment in theatre history and the diversity of this current Broadway season. NYPL for the Performing Arts online June 02, 2022 | 6:00 pm Get tickets Stay Up to Date on the Latest Events and Ticket Info Upcoming Events Arts Event Listings Explore a curated selection of upcoming arts events, on campus and throughout New York City. BROWSE EVENTS Columbia Night Columbia Nights Enjoy world-class performances and museum tours with behind-the-scenes access to deepen your experience. LEARN MORE Free & Discounted Tickets Looking to enjoy some of New York City’s best museums, performances, and movies on a college student budget? Through the Arts Initiative, students, faculty, and staff can enjoy a variety of discounts. Museums Passport to Museums Get free admission to nearly 30 incredible museums in New York City through our Passport to Museums program including: the Intrepid Sea Air & Space Museum, The Jewish Museum, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, MoMA, and more. Browse museums Performances On Sale at the TIC [paused] Get discounted tickets to hundreds of off-campus arts events at the city's leading performance spaces including Broadway, Carnegie Hall, the Metropolitan Opera, New York City Ballet, the New York Philharmonic, and more. Performances Passport to Performances Get free tickets to performances from world-class New York City venues, including Carnegie Hall, the Metropolitan Opera, and the New York Philharmonic. Tickets are exclusively announced through our email newsletter. Stay Up to Date on the Latest Events and Ticket Info © 2022 Columbia University Arts Initiative Arts Initiative at Columbia University 202 Dodge Hall, MC 1801 New York, New York 10027 (212) 851-9574 artsinitiative@columbia.edu The Ticket and Information Center is closed for summer break, and will reopen in fall 2022. © 2022 Columbia University Arts Initiative