Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Music Undergraduate Programs Student Life Our resilient ensembles Alumni A musical tribute > School of Music > Music Undergraduate Programs https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3MVs02DPtU0 MUSIC Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Us The School of Music is a fully accredited member of the National Association of Schools of Music (NASM). A distinguished faculty of active scholars and performers offers students flexible, professional programs in music that are enriched by Tulsa’s heritage of cultural excellence. The School of Music, School of Art, and Department of Theatre form the Division of Fine and Performing Arts, which offers programs that lead to professional careers in the arts and to the appreciation of the fine and performing arts. The mission of the School of Music is to provide its students with a professional musical education that is consistent with the aims of a comprehensive university and relevant to a continually changing global and technological environment, to enrich the university’s curriculum with course offerings and ensemble experiences available to all students, and to enhance campus and community life with quality concerts, recitals, and other programs and performances. Bachelor of Arts Description Bachelor of Music Education Description Program Objectives Develop technical skills requisite for artistic self-expression in at least one major performance area. Students must acquire an understanding of repertory in their major performance area, the ability to read at sight, rehearsal and conducting skills necessary to work as a leader, keyboard competency and collaborative competence and knowledge of repertory through regular and varied ensemble experiences. (Performance) Develop an understanding of compositional processes, an ability to work conceptually with musical structures, and the ability to defend musical judgments. Demonstrate the ability to hear, identify and work conceptually with rhythm, melody, and harmony. (Musicianship Skills, Theory, Ear Training and Analysis) Create and present original or derivative music, including jazz-specific course offerings and ensembles that focus on harmonization. (Composition/Improvisation) Acquire knowledge of music literature and style periods from Greek Classicism to the contemporary era, and include components of World Music. (History and Repertory) Demonstrate synthesis of musical and other skills acquired over the course of undergraduate study including senior recitals and student teaching. (Synthesis) Degree Options Music, B.A. Provide a professional general music education that is consistent with the aims of a comprehensive university and relevant to a continually changing global and technological environment. Music, Film Scoring Emphasis, B.A. A professional degree program for students pursuing a major in music with an emphasis in film scoring. Music Education, Instrumental, B.M.E. A professional degree program for students pursuing a major in instrumental music education. Music Education, Vocal, B.M.E. A professional degree program for students pursuing a major in vocal music education. Music Minor Students from other disciplines may receive a minor in music. A successful placement audition and permission of applied music faculty are required. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT