Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply Mary Sibande | Spring 2019 A solo exhibition of South African artist Mary Sibande (b. 1982, Barberton, South Africa). In her installations, photographs, and sculptures, Sibande explores the intersection of identity, history, and memory in South Africa. Sibande employs the body as a site of memory, where history is contested and fantasies are played out. For her first solo exhibition in New York, the artist presents six works from two series, Long Live the Dead Queen (2007–2011) and The Purple Shall Govern (2013–present). Sibande is the 2018-2019 Virginia C. Gildersleeve Professor at Barnard College. Curated by Sally Eaves Hughes. Curatorial Advisor: Kellie Jones, Art History and Archaeology. Mary Sibande is co-sponsored by the Institute for Research in African American Studies and the School of the Arts, Columbia University, and the Departments of Art History and Africana Studies, Barnard College, through a Virginia C. Gildersleeve Professorship. Generous support is also provided by the Ford Foundation, the Collaborative to Advance Equity through Research at Columbia University, and a Humanities New York Action Grant. April 17th - May 1st, 2019 Conversation with Mary Sibande and Kellie Jones Thursday, April 25, 2019 5–6 PM Faculty House, President's Ballroom Open to the public. No registration required. Exhibition Reception Thursday, April 25, 2019 6–8 PM LeRoy Neiman Gallery Mary Sibande, Her Majesty, Queen Sophie, 2010. Courtesy the artist. Event Time & Date Date: Past Event Location: Leroy Neiman Gallery 310 Dodge Hall 2960 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Contact the event organizer [email protected] News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University