Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Research Reducing the Scars of Trauma Research Treating PTSD Nightmares > Department of Psychology > Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8kLRxsfg35E PSYCHOLOGY Psychology Undergraduate Programs I/O Psychology Graduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Labs & Institutes Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Now Request Information Clinical psychology course work includes formal course work in the core areas of psychology, research methods, personality and psychopathology, principles of psychological assessment and intervention and professional issues in clinical psychology. The program trains students to do what psychologists actually do in today’s society: ethically apply knowledge of psychological theory, assessment, research methodology and clinical skill to complex clinical problems. Our programs are based upon the scientist-practitioner model: we define psychological practice as the application of the theory, methods and results of scientific psychology to clinical problems. Licensing laws of states vary widely, and students should consult the licensing body in the state in which they intend to practice to determine opportunities and requirements for licensure at the master’s level. Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data The Clinical Psychology Program at TU is fully accredited by the American Psychological Association and has been continuously accredited since January, 1991. Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Other Data (Sept. 2021) Questions related to the program’s accredited status should be directed to the Commission on Accreditation: Office of Program Consultation and Accreditation American Psychological Association 750 1st Street, NE, Washington, DC 20002 Phone: (202) 336-5979 / E-mail: apaaccred@apa.org Web: www.apa.org/ed/accreditation Program Aims MASTER OF ARTS IN CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY The master’s program shares four training aims of the doctoral program: Students will: (1) achieve familiarity with foundational knowledge of psychology to include four of the following domains: biological bases of behavior, development across the lifespan, theories and principles of social psychology, cognitive psychology, emotions, or history of psychology as a science. (2) acquire familiarity with empirically supported treatment modalities and assessment tools; (3) achieve knowledge of academic, ethical, and professional standards for psychologists as published by regulatory agencies; (4) acquire knowledge of individual and cultural diversity, and be prepared to adapt supervised clinical activities. (5) acquire skills that prepare them for doctoral study in clinical psychology or further training in related fields (e.g., counseling, social work). DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY IN CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY Specific Aims. The broad aim of the program is to train professionally competent health service psychologists with a broad background in the field of psychology who can apply psychological theory, assessment techniques, and research methodology to address clinical problems. To elaborate this broad aim, our program defined specific training aims that were informed by the APA Guidelines for training Health Service Psychologists and the APA standards of Accreditation. Namely, students will: (1) demonstrate advanced discipline specific knowledge concerning biological bases of behavior, psychological, social, and biological development across the lifespan, theories and principles of social psychology, cognitive psychology, emotions, and history of psychology as a science; (2) acquire clinical skills pertaining to empirically supported psychological assessment, clinical diagnosis and case conceptualization, intervention planning, implementation, and evaluation, clinical supervision, and clinical consultation; (3) obtain skills concerning research methods and data analysis to perform and disseminate psychological research; (4) achieve knowledge of academic, ethical, legal, and professional standards, and demonstrate these standards in professional values, attitudes, and behaviors; and (5) acquire knowledge of individual and cultural diversity and be prepared to adapt their methods and practice to meet the needs of diverse populations. Degree Options Clinical Psychology, M.A. Allows students to develop basic intervention, evaluation, and consultation skills and prepares them for entry-level clinical positions. Clinical MA Balance Sheet Clinical Psychology, Ph.D. Prepares graduates to become scientist practitioners of clinical psychology, and develop a broad range of skills for the identification, evaluation, and resolution of human problems. Clinical PhD Balance Sheet Doctoral Curriculum Requirements The doctoral program requires 90 credit hours of graduate work beyond the baccalaureate. The program requires completion of at least three full-time academic years of study and a pre-doctoral internship. All three years of academic study must be completed in residence at the University of Tulsa. Specialized issues in clinical psychology are addressed in topical seminars. Students must pass a comprehensive examination for the Ph.D. consisting of a general written and a clinical oral portion. Although a master’s thesis is not required, students must demonstrate research competence through completion of the pre-candidacy project, the proposal for the dissertation, and the doctoral dissertation. Students must pass a final oral examination on the dissertation. Flexibility exists in the choice of electives and practicum training experiences, allowing students to tailor the program to meet their individual needs. Program Facts and Information The Clinical Psychology Program at TU is fully accredited by the American Psychological Association and has been continuously accredited since January, 1991. Clinical Handbook Clinical MA Balance Sheet Clinical PhD Balance Sheet Practicum Manual GRASP Handbook Questions related to the program’s accredited status should be directed to the Commission on Accreditation: Office of Program Consultation and Accreditation American Psychological Association 750 1st Street, NE, Washington, DC 20002 Phone: (202) 336-5979 / E-mail: apaaccred@apa.org Web: www.apa.org/ed/accreditation Diversity Statement The University of Tulsa (TU) Clinical Psychology Program values the inclusion and engagement of students of all backgrounds, identities, orientations, abilities, and heritages. The Program is dedicated to the support of students, academically and individually, and seeks to foster an environment where diverse identities and perspectives have value, voice and impact. The Program is committed to promoting diversity within all functions of the department, including but not limited to, research, teaching, service and student recruitment. Specific diversity initiatives include: Recruitment of diverse students and faculty members. A focus on research with populations from diverse backgrounds. Infusion of diversity considerations into each level of curriculum and clinical experiences. An in-house training clinic that provides free therapy and assessment services to underserved populations of all ages. Commitment to mentoring students from a wide range of underrepresented and marginalized groups. In addition to the initiatives of the Clinical Program, The University of Tulsa is committed to cultivating a community that reflects the fundamental values and goals of diversity, equity, and inclusion. The Clinical Program will work with, and seeks ways to further, the existing diversity and inclusion initiatives at the University. More details about the University’s initiatives can be found on the website of TU’s Office of Diversity and Engagement, some of which include: A diversity action plan Multicultural organizations Internationalization Religious diversity Application Requirements To be considered for graduate admission, the following items must be submitted to the Graduate School: A completed Graduate School application Statement of Purpose (admission essay) 3 letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your academic potential. Official or unofficial transcripts from all universities attended GRE Score Results Curriculum Vitae/Resume Writing Sample (optional) – Examples: undergraduate thesis, manuscript submission, conference paper $60 application fee International students who studied at a university outside of the U.S. will also need to submit TOEFL or IELTS results. Mandatory Professional Licensure Disclosure U.S. Federal Regulations, 34 CFR § 668.50 (2016 Rules), in preparation for the adoption of 34 C.F.R. §668.43 (2019 Rules), and in compliance with the State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (SARA) Manual version 19.2, The University of Tulsa provides the following disclosure related to the educational requirements for professional licensure and certification. To learn more. Faculty Recruiting Students It is highly recommended that applicants to our program identify a faculty member that they would like to work with during their doctoral education. Below is a list of faculty who will be recruiting for students in the upcoming season (to start Fall 2022). Please visit the faculty pages for more information on each of the recruiting faculty. Please refrain from emailing faculty that are not listed on this page to inquire if they are recruiting students; if they are recruiting students; they will be listed on this page! Faculty recruiting for the upcoming admissions season: Dr. Davis is looking for 1-2 students who are interested in the experience of trauma and treatment of PTSD, insomnia, and nightmares. Dr. Davis’ lab also studies the prevalence, impact, and prevention of interpersonal violence in general and within the LGBTQIA+ population. Competitive applicants will have some background knowledge and research experience in trauma studies. Students from various underrepresented backgrounds are encouraged to apply. Dr. Newman is searching for students (2022-2023) interested in Journalism and Trauma. Competitive applicants will have experience in research (abstracts, papers presented at national meetings, publications), have excellent writing skills, and a strong background working with data. Students from various underrepresented backgrounds are encouraged to apply. Dr. Rhudy is interviewing students for the Fall 2022 incoming class. Successful applicants will have research experience, particularly in the areas of pain, neuroscience, and/or psychophysiology, as well as strong writing and analytic/statistical skills. Ideally, candidates will also have prior experience with presenting at national/international conferences and/or publishing. Students from various underrepresented backgrounds, particularly those interested in working with Native American populations, are encouraged to apply. Additional information about the laboratory can be found here: https://artsandsciences.utulsa.edu/psychophys/ Dr. Aubuchon-Endsley is interviewing students for the 2022-2023 incoming cohort. Competitive applicants should have research experience with some exposure to clinical, health, or developmental psychology research preferred, as well as experience working with women and/or infants. Applicants should also have strong writing, statistical, and interpersonal/communication skills. Ideally, candidates will also have experience directly working with data, presenting posters and/or papers at conferences, or authorship or co-authorship on publications. Students from underrepresented backgrounds are encouraged to apply. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT