Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply Writing Degrees & Concentrations Graduate Courses & Requirements Undergraduate Information Application Requirements Faculty & Staff Students Alumni Resources FAQ Columbia Artist/Teachers (CA/T) Our Word Translation Columbia Journal News Events EXPLORE Writing Program Upcoming Events Please stay tuned for upcoming events. More The Creative Writing Lecture Series The Creative Writing Lecture Series brings distinguished writers to Columbia for original talks on craft. Recent guests include Michael Chabon, Lydia Davis, Jennifer Egan, Jamaica Kincaid, Ben Lerner, George Saunders, Zadie Smith, Eileen Myles, Maggie Nelson, and Mitchell Jackson. All events are free and open to the public. They are held in Dodge Hall (2960 Broadway, Room 501) on the Morningside Heights campus of Columbia University, at 116th Street and Broadway, at 7 pm; any schedule or location changes will be posted. The series is sponsored by the Columbia University School of the Arts Writing Program. The Creative Writing Lecture Series, now in its ninth year, brings distinguished writers to Columbia for original talks on literary craft. The writers are diverse and brilliant, with a wide range of artistic strategies, and each talk turns into a short course on the challenges of making vital literary art. Among our past guests are Aimee Bender, Joyce Carol Oates, Mary Gaitskill, James Wood, Michael Chabon, Jennifer Egan, Nicholson Baker, and Lydia Millet. Ben Marcus, Series Director Mitchell S. Jackson at the Creative Writing Lecture Series Download the 2019–20 Creative Writing Lecture Series Season Poster Download the 2017–18 Creative Writing Lectures Series Season Poster Download the 2015–16 Creative Writing Lecture Series Season Poster Download the 2014–15 Creative Writing Lecture Series Season Poster Download the 2013–14 Creative Writing Lecture Series Season Poster The Nonfiction Dialogues The Nonfiction Dialogues is an evening literary series in which Professor and Writing Program Chair Lis Harris discusses with distinguished nonfiction writers their work and careers. Recent guests have included Emily Bernard, Peter Godwin, Lewis Hyde, Amitava Kumar, Adrian Nicole LeBlanc, Terese Marie Mailhot, Maggie Nelson, Geoffrey O’Brien, and Lacy Johnson. Professor Lis Harris interviews Jane Mayer Download the 2019–20 Nonfiction Dialogues Season Poster Download the 2017–18 Nonfiction Dialogues Season Poster Download the 2016–17 Nonfiction Dialogues Season Poster Download the 2015–16 Nonfiction Dialogues Season Poster Download the 2014–15 Nonfiction Dialogues Season Poster Download the 2012–13 Nonfiction Dialogues Season Poster Download the 2011–12 Nonfiction Dialogues Season Poster More Events Literary Translation at Columbia (LTAC) hosts events with leading literary translators from around the world. Recent guests include Margaret Jull Costa, Ana Luísa Amaral and Emily Wilson. The Poetry Reading Series is overseen by Writing Chair Timothy Donnelly. In addition, students curate and host two student reading series, and alumni curate and host MFA Selects at the KGB Bar once a month. Writing alumni Joss Lake and Michele Koury at the 2017 Agents Mixer Agents Mixer Each spring, Writing Program alumni and research arts students with completed manuscripts connect with literary agents at the annual Writing Program Agents Mixer. The event allows attendees to catch up with classmates and offers the opportunity to engage in productive conversations with industry professionals. News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University