Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Arts and Sciences Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services About the College Students News Events Departments and Programs Ways to Give Spectrum Magazine Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Arts and Sciences About the College Students News Events Departments and Programs Ways to Give Spectrum Magazine Launch your career where art and science collide From biology to psychology, from English to religion, and so much more, the FSU College of Arts and Sciences is the place to prepare a career that will change the world. Our students are scientists and athletes, writers and linguists, award winners and noted scholars, and many achieve national recognition for their work even before graduation. Learn more about the college Current students Below are the most popular quick links for students enrolled with the college. You can find additional resources on the Students dashboard. Frequently Asked Questions Advising Request Forms Academic Progress Check Arts and Sciences title-inside title-centered 2 Legacy Sort 8 Legacy Priority 0 Top college news Statistics FSU statistician named fellow of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics A Florida State University statistician has been named a fellow of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (IMS), one of the most esteemed designations in the field. More News Find your inspiration With 18 departments spanning the humanities and natural sciences, you’re sure to find a program tailored to your individual interests and career goals in FSU’s most diverse college. Conduct research into cures for Alzheimer’s, cancer and diabetes. Uncover the past with classicists and anthropologists and apply history’s hard-won lessons to solve today’s greatest challenges. Study climate change, weather phenomena and the origins of our universe using cutting-edge technology. Harness the collaborative power of the college’s disciplines to spur groundbreaking discoveries. Let’s get started. View Departments and Programs Make a difference in the College of Arts and Sciences Philanthropy has the power to change lives. Whether through support of groundbreaking research to cure human disease or helping first-generation undergrads achieve the dream of a college education, your gift to the College of Arts and Sciences makes a tremendous difference for generations of students and faculty and drives impact at the local, state and federal levels. Along with legislative funding, private support is essential to ensure College of Arts and Sciences faculty and programs are resourced to support their educational and research missions. Invest in the future of FSU's College of Arts and Sciences The Alumni Magazine of Florida State University's College of Arts and Sciences Read the latest issue College of Arts and Sciences 110 Longmire Bldg. P.O. Box 3061280 Tallahassee, FL 32306-1280 (850) 644-1081 Faculty and Staff Resources CoAS SharePoint (Intranet) University Email myFSU Portal CoAS IT Units & Request Support Connect Follow the college on social media Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media