Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > Rising writer hones her craft with multifaceted journalism internship Rising writer hones her craft with multifaceted journalism internship March 29, 2022 When Julianne Tran, a political science major, signed on for a spring 2022 internship with TulsaPeople magazine, all she knew was that she wanted to write. Mostly about food, perhaps about people. “I knew I was interested in food and culture, but I didn’t have much experience writing shorter, third-person articles,” Tran remarked. “I also just tended toward topics that I personally found interesting and didn’t do too much writing outside those interests.” Before starting the internship, Tran had already spent a couple of years developing her writing skills at The Collegian, The University of Tulsa’s student newspaper, where she currently serves as variety editor and contributes stories. For The Collegian, Tran writes first-person pieces about baking, movies and other topics. These experiences, she believes, helped her discover her love for writing and prepare her for working at TulsaPeople. Writing beyond the kitchen Once her internship began in January, this ambitious senior was tasked with crafting more than just food pieces. Being assigned to cover myriad topics, including philanthropy events, FC Tulsa, cycling clubs and nonprofits, Tran quickly learned to be adaptable and versatile. “In the first week, I was bombarded with emails from all directions: writing assignments, fact-checking, email replies. I was overwhelmed and thought, ‘How do adults handle all this?’” Tran laughed. She eventually discovered her groove and learned to cut out all the extra words and better manage her time. Sample Tran’s versatile and engaging voice in these recent TulsaPeople articles: “Call for celebration” – About the gala Uncorking the Cure for MS fundraiser “A menu for all seasons” – On chef Justin Thompson and his restaurant Juniper Tran’s internship supervisor at TulsaPeople was Morgan Phillips, the magazine’s senior editor. “Julianne is a skilled communicator who has impressed me with her writing talent and professionalism while interning with us,” said Phillips. “She is a high-capacity individual who works quickly and effectively. I was particularly impressed when Julianne pitched a wonderful story idea on international grocery stores to our editorial team and then seamlessly executed the idea as a multi-page feature.” Author and cover model After two months of interning, Tran not only found herself curious about all kinds of writing assignments she had never anticipated, she even found herself on the cover of some of them. At the end of February, Phillips emailed Tran to ask whether she would be a stand-in for the March cover shoot at a local all-women’s coworking space. Never one to say no to new opportunities, Tran quickly agreed. “I thought I was just going to be a back of the head in the bottom left corner,” she said. Things turned out rather differently. Arriving at the co-working space the next day, Tran walked in to find four other women looking much more prepared for a cover shoot. Following the photographer’s instructions, she moved around the space for different shots: a mug in her hand, looking intently at a laptop, taking a few steps for a walking picture. “I really enjoyed being part of the photoshoot process,” Tran said. “I just never thought I’d be on that end of photoshooting!” Tran, with a short stack of copies in hand, commented, “As proud as I am to be on the cover, I am most excited to see my writing in print.” She joked: “I guess I can add cover modeling to my resume, right under my favorite: author!” While Julianne Tran took the initiative and organized the TulsaPeople internship on her own, all TU students and alumni are invited to get in touch with the experts at CaneCareers for help finding relevant internships and employment. Arts & Sciences, Arts and Sciences, Featured, Internships, News, Political Science, Stories, Student Stories experiential learning, food-writing, internships, journalism, Julianne Tran, Morgan Phillips, TulsaPeople 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT