Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation ARTS About Us Welcome Georgia Tech Arts Staff and Contact information Arts Advisory Board Faculty Insight Group Subscribe to the Digital Newsletter Ferst Center Box Office Directions and Parking Facility Rental Accessibility Group Sales Experience Georgia Tech Arts Events Events at the Ferst Center Visual Art on Campus Virtual Events TECHnically Creative Ticket Buzz and Other Discounts Get Creative Contact Us Tickets Donate Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About Us Ferst Center Directions and Parking Ferst Center for the Arts & Georgia Tech Arts Administrative Offices This image links to the interactive campus map but may not work well on all internet browsers. You may prefer to use a navigation device. PLEASE NOTE THAT PARKING REGULATIONS ARE ENFORCED 24 HOURS A DAY, 7 DAYS A WEEK. PLEASE COMPLY WITH ALL POSTED NOTICES. Ferst Center General Parking Georgia Tech Parking and Transportation Services offers ample, well-lit parking in the Visitors Area 3: Student Center Deck (W02) on Ferst Drive. Rates are posted at the entrance to the lot and may vary depending on the event. Payment is by credit/debit card only. When using most navigation devices for the entrance to the Visitors Area 3: Student Center Deck (W02), please use 355 Ferst Drive NW, Atlanta GA 30332. Ferst Center Accessible Parking Accessible parking is available in the Visitors Area 2: Student Center/Ferst Drive Lot directly in front of the Ferst Center for the Arts. Payment is by credit/debit card and the ParkMobile app. You can access the sidewalk via curb cut. Because of construction, the accessible path from the surface lot to the Ferst now runs behind the Smithgall Building for approximately 500 feet. For more details, visit our accessibility page. When using navigation devices for the entrance to Visitors Area 2: Student Center/Ferst Drive Lot, please use 353 Ferst Drive NW, Atlanta GA 30332. Taking Marta To take MARTA to the Ferst Center, go to the Midtown station. Exit the station on the side opposite from 10th Street. Look for the Tech Trolley and that will take you to the Georgia Tech campus at no charge. The Trolley schedule changes by day and time of year and has limited evening hours, so please check the schedule. Exit the Tech Trolley at the Ferst Drive & Student Center stop. Cross the street, continue towards the Ferst Center, and past the Student Center on your right for about 100 yards. To return, reverse the directions (the Trolley stop to return to MARTA is on the Ferst Center/Student Center side of the street). Again, please check the Tech Trolley schedule carefully to make sure it is running when you need it. You may also take MARTA to the North Avenue station and then order a Lyft or Uber to the Ferst Center. Visiting Georgia Tech Arts During the Day Georgia Tech Arts is located in the Charles Smithgall Student Services Building, 353 Ferst Drive NW, Suite 141. Office hours are Monday-Friday, 8am-5pm; please call ahead to confirm. The building is located across from the Student Center, and the Area 2 Visitor lot is most convenient. When using navigation devices, please use 353 Ferst Drive NW, Atlanta GA 30332 for the Area 2 Visitor Lot entrance. For a complete map of all parking locations on campus please visit https://pts.gatech.edu/sites/default/files/images/gt_parking_zones_map_2_18_20.pdf Facebook Instagram Twitter Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Arts@Tech 349 Ferst Dr. Atlanta, GA 30332-0468 (404) 894-2787 info@arts.gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login