0 Skip to Content Home Artists Yasi Alipour David Altmejd Gregory Amenoff Ghada Amer & Reza Farkhondeh Polly Apfelbaum Korakrit Arunanondchai Fia Backström Sanford Biggers Jennifer Bornstein Cecily Brown Phong Bui Klaus Bürgel Ernesto Caivano William Cordova William Cordova and Lee Quiñones Ann Craven Mark Dion Rochelle Feinstein Eric Fischl Jonathan Safran Foer Fab Five Freddy Lee Friedlander Carl Fudge Barnaby Furnas Ellen Gallagher Tim Gardner Dylan Graham Elliot Green Valerie Hammond Trenton Doyle Hancock Dana Hoey Yun-Fei Ji Alfredo Jaar Jasper Johns Michael Joo Brad Kahlhamer William Kentridge Dr. Lakra Dinh Q. Lê Leigh Ledare Nicola López Edward Mapplethorpe Jonas Mekas Ohad Meromi Sam Messer Sam Messer and Jonathan Safran Foer Kayla Mohammadi LeRoy Neiman Shirin Neshat Lee Quiñones Alexis Rockman Thomas Roma Dana Schutz David Shapiro Arlene Shechet Dasha Shishkin Shahzia Sikander Kiki Smith Sarah Sze Rirkrit Tiravanija Tomas Vu John Walker Kara Walker Heimo Wallner Paula Wilson Terry Winters Su Xinping Craig Zammiello Fellows Current Neiman Fellows Past Neiman Fellows About History Collections Visit LeRoy Neiman Gallery News Exhibitions Artist Interviews Alumni Interviews Publications Press Open Menu Close Menu Home Artists Yasi Alipour David Altmejd Gregory Amenoff Ghada Amer & Reza Farkhondeh Polly Apfelbaum Korakrit Arunanondchai Fia Backström Sanford Biggers Jennifer Bornstein Cecily Brown Phong Bui Klaus Bürgel Ernesto Caivano William Cordova William Cordova and Lee Quiñones Ann Craven Mark Dion Rochelle Feinstein Eric Fischl Jonathan Safran Foer Fab Five Freddy Lee Friedlander Carl Fudge Barnaby Furnas Ellen Gallagher Tim Gardner Dylan Graham Elliot Green Valerie Hammond Trenton Doyle Hancock Dana Hoey Yun-Fei Ji Alfredo Jaar Jasper Johns Michael Joo Brad Kahlhamer William Kentridge Dr. Lakra Dinh Q. Lê Leigh Ledare Nicola López Edward Mapplethorpe Jonas Mekas Ohad Meromi Sam Messer Sam Messer and Jonathan Safran Foer Kayla Mohammadi LeRoy Neiman Shirin Neshat Lee Quiñones Alexis Rockman Thomas Roma Dana Schutz David Shapiro Arlene Shechet Dasha Shishkin Shahzia Sikander Kiki Smith Sarah Sze Rirkrit Tiravanija Tomas Vu John Walker Kara Walker Heimo Wallner Paula Wilson Terry Winters Su Xinping Craig Zammiello Fellows Current Neiman Fellows Past Neiman Fellows About History Collections Visit LeRoy Neiman Gallery News Exhibitions Artist Interviews Alumni Interviews Publications Press Open Menu Close Menu Home Folder: Artists Back Yasi Alipour David Altmejd Gregory Amenoff Ghada Amer & Reza Farkhondeh Polly Apfelbaum Korakrit Arunanondchai Fia Backström Sanford Biggers Jennifer Bornstein Cecily Brown Phong Bui Klaus Bürgel Ernesto Caivano William Cordova William Cordova and Lee Quiñones Ann Craven Mark Dion Rochelle Feinstein Eric Fischl Jonathan Safran Foer Fab Five Freddy Lee Friedlander Carl Fudge Barnaby Furnas Ellen Gallagher Tim Gardner Dylan Graham Elliot Green Valerie Hammond Trenton Doyle Hancock Dana Hoey Yun-Fei Ji Alfredo Jaar Jasper Johns Michael Joo Brad Kahlhamer William Kentridge Dr. Lakra Dinh Q. Lê Leigh Ledare Nicola López Edward Mapplethorpe Jonas Mekas Ohad Meromi Sam Messer Sam Messer and Jonathan Safran Foer Kayla Mohammadi LeRoy Neiman Shirin Neshat Lee Quiñones Alexis Rockman Thomas Roma Dana Schutz David Shapiro Arlene Shechet Dasha Shishkin Shahzia Sikander Kiki Smith Sarah Sze Rirkrit Tiravanija Tomas Vu John Walker Kara Walker Heimo Wallner Paula Wilson Terry Winters Su Xinping Craig Zammiello Folder: Fellows Back Current Neiman Fellows Past Neiman Fellows Folder: About Back History Collections Visit LeRoy Neiman Gallery Folder: News Back Exhibitions Artist Interviews Alumni Interviews Publications Press My Affectionate Gaze Time and Transformation in the Prints of Ernesto Caivano, Lee Friedlander, Ulrike Johannsen, Shirin Neshat and Kiki Smith Curated by Katherine Blackburne February 28 - April 15, 2022 We live singular existences, in the particular and the concrete – today, this hour, this street, these eyes, this year. But we live equally in cycles, in phases of repetition and renewal, of the old repeating itself, and the arrow of time, which thermodynamics tells us heads in one direction only: from order to disorder, from birth to decay, from life to death. (And it is surely not too positive a spin to add to that – from death to new life.) But part of the specificity of our lives, of the cycles and arrows of time which we carry and which carry us, entails the contemplation of those historical horizons without which we cannot understand our own time, or any other for that matter. Although perception has long been subject to philosophical reflection, it was only in the mid twentieth century that “the gaze” [Fr. le regard] became an object of sustained theoretical attention. We have become well-acquainted with the fact that what we call looking is never a simple act of the retina, of physiological capture and neurological computation. Being irreducibly social, undeniably cultural, the gaze is irreducible to the science of optics. There are different ways of looking and being looked at: piercing gazes, wandering eyes, blurred vision, and so on. And we also live in a world where our gazes are retreating increasingly to looking at things not materially present – through screens; the world much of the time manifests itself as a glowing rectangle, where the where we are is always somewhere else, while those being seen in that somewhere else are also likely elsewhere… We see fragments, but the very idea of fragment entails a larger whole, of what gives the seen its sense, of what preceded it and what is likely to come after – or what might come after. Even if there is no sense to be made, we become unconsciously enlisted in that task. Nothing escapes epistemophilia, not even dada. We do not live in the abstract, even if from our lives we do abstract, represent, make matters ideational, allegorical, place them under the reign of the Concept. And here an unavoidable horizon of living in the concrete entails thinking through – and figuring – precisely those sociological frames which tell us so much about who gets to look, who is looked at, who generates representations and about whom those representations concern. And so what, in the face of these huge structural forces, can art do? Well, it does what it can. Art in its very essence engages not only with the it is, but the it might be: like science, art is oriented towards the hypothetical. It not only figures life as it is, but life as it might become. In this sense, art itself offers the promise of participating fully in those above mentioned cycles of birth, death, and new life – of forms which might offer us hints and glimpses of not only who we are, but who – if we want – we might become. Currently on view in the gallery LeRoy Neiman Gallery 310 Dodge Hall 2960 Broadway at 116th St New York, NY 10027 For more information, please email neimancenter@columbia.edu or call (212) 854-7641. Shirin Neshat Offerings, 2019 Portfolio of nine photogravures with black foiling Sheet: 26 5/8 x 22 inches Image: 20 x 15 ¾ inches Paper: Hahnemühle Edition: 14 POR Lee Friedlander Left: Staglieno XIIII, 2003 Photogravure Sheet: 23 ¾ x 22 ¼ inches Image: 19 3/16 x 9 1/16 inches Paper: Magnani Pescia Edition: 25 $1,500| Right: Staglieno IX, 2003 Photogravure Sheet: 23 ¾ x 22 ¼ inches Image: 19 3/16 x 9 1/16 inches Paper: Magnani Pescia Edition: 25 $1,500 Ernesto Caivano The Knight Interlude series, 2005 Etching and spit-bite Sheet: 16 x 12 ½ inches, each Image: 9 ¼ x 6 ¼ inches, each Paper: Somerset Textured Edition 26 $12,000 for the set Left: Ernesto Caivano , The Knight Interlude series, 2005 Etching and spit-bite Sheet: 16 x 12 ½ inches, each Image: 9 ¼ x 6 ¼ inches, each Paper: Somerset Textured Edition 26 $12,000 for the set Right: Ulrike Johannsen Untitled from The balls, a portfolio of three prints, 2012 Inkjet and silkscreen, embossed 21-1/2 x 30 inches Ed: 2/20 Kiki Smith Tidal, 1998 Accordion fold book with photogravure, offset lithography and screenprint in a handmade clothbound box with screenprint Sheet and image: 19 ½ x 126 ¼ inches (open); 10 ¼ x 9 11/16 (closed) Paper: Hanhnemühle and Kizukishi Natural Editon: 39 Sold out Sign up to receive news and updates. Email Address Sign Up Thank you! About | Purchase | Visit