Info for × News Media Inquiries Events Submit an Arts Event Video Replay: 2020 – 2021 Events About Mission & History Prospective Students Visit Us Venues and Studios Opportunities Contact Accessibility Climate & Inclusion Resources Feedback Committee Programs View All Courses Princeton Atelier Creative Writing Dance Music Theater Theater Visual Arts Fellowships People Faculty Fellows Staff Alumni Students Lewis Center Student Advisors Search About Climate & Inclusion Programs People Events News Contact Us Facebook Twitter Google Instagram Search × Current Students View All Courses Funding & Awards Find a Student Advisor Passport to the Arts Prospective Students The Arts @ Princeton Why Study the Arts? Visit Campus Apply Alumni News & Networking Alumni POV Artists Fellowships Visitors Directions Venues and Studios Media / Press Media Inquiries General Information Directory Subscribe to Email Updates Follow @Princeton Arts Facebook Twitter Google Instagram × Programs Show Menu × Theater Director’s Note + Mission Statement Faculty & Guest Artists Courses Program of Study 2021-22 Season Student Participation in Theater Making Student Workshops and Co-Curriculars Princeton Playhouse Choir Student Resources McCarter Theatre Partnership Past Theater Seasons Theatrical Partnerships Events News Student-Run Performing Arts Groups Innovations in Socially Distant Performance Ten-Minute Play Contest “A great liberal arts education is the best possible training for a life in the theater. A class in theater is a wonderful training for life.” — Jane Cox The purpose of the Program in Theater is to engage Princeton students of all kinds in the making of theater with significant artists, faculty members and each other, through studio classes, and through our theater season; to familiarize students with the role that theater has played and could play in different cultures, including our own; and to further the field of theater making through research, innovation and engagement with artists on the leading edge of theater making. All Princeton students are invited to immerse themselves in the creative process through a course in theater. We teach studio courses ranging from South African Protest Theater to Costume and Set Design in small group classes averaging ten students, and academic courses such as Movements for Diversity in American Theater or Ghosts, Vampires and Zombies in Irish theater. Our faculty includes world class artists, critics and scholars, and we actively encourage students with little or no theatrical experience or knowledge to join us. Over one hundred students take a hands-on studio class in theater each semester. Each year about twenty-five to thirty-five committed students take a certificate in theater or music theater, working with faculty members, working artists and their peers on their own independent creative work. Most of our productions are proposed by certificate students in their junior year and offer the opportunity to write, direct, act, design, compose or stage manage projects under the guidance of visiting artists and our professional faculty and staff. Each year, we offer at least one or two additional performance projects chosen by faculty and led by faculty or guest artists, in the context of classes taken for credit. All theatrical projects in the theater and music theater programs are open for participation by all students at Princeton as performers, run crew, stage management and designers. We present these productions in the Roger S. Berlind ’52 Theatre at the McCarter Theatre Center, and in the on-campus Wallace Black Box and Drapkin Studio, as well as in other traditional and nontraditional venues on campus. In addition to our faculty, our program staff includes a full range of talented theatrical craftspeople, working in scenery, costumes, lighting and stage management. Our theater classes offer trips to New York to see a wide range of performances and sometimes to meet the artists. The Programs in Theater and Music Theater also offer a variety of extracurricular and co-curricular workshops in skills such as singing for the musical theater, movement for actors and music directing. The McCarter Theatre, one of the most active cultural centers in the nation, is on the Princeton campus and offers over two hundred performances of theater, dance and music every year. Exciting theater artists and scholars visit campus many times each year, and our vibrant student theater community participates in multiple extracurricular theater companies as well as in our program productions. Learn more about Program in Theater faculty, news, events, & courses. Upcoming theater events Fri Jun 3, 2022 - Sat Jun 4, 2022 · 7:30 pm Princeton Actors Collective presents Old Times Sat Jun 4, 2022 · 2:00 pm Princeton Actors Collective presents Old Times Theater News May 24, 2022 Lewis Center for the Arts Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Read More > May 18, 2022 A Year of Returning In-Person to Stages, Studios, Galleries, and Screening Rooms Read More > May 10, 2022 Students Connect With Local Black Theater Institution Read More > May 9, 2022 Lewis Center faculty and an alum nominated for Tony and Drama Desk Awards Read More > Read more theater news Featured Theater Videos THEATER COURSE SPOTLIGHT Throughout the spring 2018 semester, theater lecturer Fintan O’Toole and 14 students explored what art could tell them about society’s attitudes toward mortality in the course “Playing Dead: Corpses in Theater and Cinema.” Read the feature story by Nick Donnoli on the Princeton University homepage » Questions? For more information about the Program in Theater, please contact Joe Fonseca, Program Associate, at 609-258-7810 or jfonseca@princeton.edu, or consult a directory of program staff. Stay Informed Are you a Princeton student interested in theater and music theater opportunities on campus? Please add your name to our list to hear about upcoming events and opportunities on campus. Climate & Inclusion Learn more about the Lewis Center for the Arts' efforts on addressing Climate & Inclusion. Receive Lewis Center Events & News Updates Lewis Arts Complex / 122 Alexander Street Program In Visual Arts / 185 Nassau Street Program In Creative Writing / 6 New South 609.258.1500 lewiscenter@princeton.edu Information For ... Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Artists Media / Press Visitors Opportunities Partnerships & Support Fellowships for Artists Funding for Princeton Students Career Advising & Mentorship High School Contests Post an Event to our Calendar Follow Us Facebook Twitter Google Instagram © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University