Skip to main content Florida State University | College of Fine Arts PROGRAMS Department of Art Department of Art Education Department of Art History Department of Interior Architecture and Design School of Dance School of Theatre Museum of Fine Arts Facility for Arts Research FSU/Asolo Conservatory for Actor Training Maggie Allesee National Center for Choreography EVENTS NEWS TICKETS APPLY GIVE This is your Donation message. Log In Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Toggle navigation Artists and Scholars in Residence FAR & Away FAR & Away Conversations FAR Fellows FAR Research Fellows Projects Facility for Arts Research Small Craft Advisory Press (SCAP) comma REBOOT collab People Faculty / Staff Visiting Artists & Scholars News / Events News Calendar Research Nights Events Connect Contact Internships Giving How to Give Development Staff Artists and Scholars in Residence FAR & Away FAR & Away Conversations FAR Fellows FAR Research Fellows Projects Facility for Arts Research Small Craft Advisory Press (SCAP) comma REBOOT collab People Faculty / Staff Visiting Artists & Scholars News / Events News Calendar Research Nights Events Connect Contact Internships Giving How to Give Development Staff X FAR & Away Virtual Artists in Residence: Kei Ito and Andrew Keiper READ MORE » FAR & Away Artist in Residence: Jiha Moon READ MORE » FAR & Away Presents: Keioui Keijaun Thomas READ MORE » FAR and Away Presents: Sonnenzimmer READ MORE » A Heartfelt Thank you from FAR READ MORE » FAR & Away Residency » Projects » Research Nights » Innovation Through Collaboration Contact Visiting Artists Calendar Residencies What's Happening on Campus FAR and Away Presents: Sonnenzimmer September 15, 2021 FSU’S Facility for Arts Research hosts virtual visiting artist lecture series November 2, 2020 Visiting Art Therapy Faculty Furthers Recognition of Arts Based Research at International Conference May 29, 2019 CELEBRATE! Student Awards Ceremony & Reception March 14, 2019 College of Fine Arts Welcomes Two-Time FSU Alum as New Dean November 14, 2018 More News » FAR and Away Presents: Sonnenzimmer September 15, 2021 Join FAR and Sonnenzimmer November 9th 2021 for a performative lecture and Q+A session regarding the Holographic Principle and its implications on our understanding of two dimensional images. The event will be a free and livestreamed for registered participants. Sonnenzimmer Nick Butcher and... Read More Toggle navigation Artists and Scholars in Residence FAR & Away FAR & Away Conversations FAR Fellows FAR Research Fellows Projects Facility for Arts Research Small Craft Advisory Press (SCAP) comma REBOOT collab People Faculty / Staff Visiting Artists & Scholars News / Events News Calendar Research Nights Events Connect Contact Internships Giving How to Give Development Staff FAR Social Media Report web issues English Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Dutch English French German Italian Portuguese Russian Spanish © 2022 Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 FSU Social Media: This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT X