Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation ARTS About Us Welcome Georgia Tech Arts Staff and Contact information Arts Advisory Board Faculty Insight Group Subscribe to the Digital Newsletter Ferst Center Box Office Directions and Parking Facility Rental Accessibility Group Sales Experience Georgia Tech Arts Events Events at the Ferst Center Visual Art on Campus Virtual Events TECHnically Creative Ticket Buzz and Other Discounts Get Creative Contact Us Tickets Donate Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Experience Virtual Events TECHnically Creative In this series, Georgia Tech Arts hosts virtual conversations with Georgia Tech alumni working in the arts and creative fields. While many Yellow Jackets go into careers in line with what they studied at school, there are some who find themselves putting their degrees to use within creative industries. Join us on Facebook Live to learn how these Georgia Tech alumni intertwined their passions with their degrees to chart exciting career paths while leading and championing innovation. Recent Guest Veronica Klucik, ECON and IA 2018 Exhibitions Manager at the Museum of Design Atlanta Monday, February 22, 2021 at 11 a.m. Watch the Video Veronica Klucik, ECON and IA 2018, is the exhibitions manager at the Museum of Design Atlanta (MODA) and co-curator of the exhibition, Learning from Nature: The Future of Design. She is drawn to the dynamism of design -- an entity both reactionary and explanatory, interdisciplinary by nature, and concerned with both function and form – and the power of storytelling and play to share big ideas, bring people together, and inspire innovation. Veronica also holds a M.S. of Sustainable Urbanism from University College London, where she found her niche in the convergence of the designed and the natural. Her big loves in life are throwing pottery, a holistic approach to wellness, and encouraging equitable climate change adaptation and resilience through community building. This discussion was recorded in advance and streamed on Facebook Live on Monday, February 22, 2021. Prior Guests María Santos, M.S. ECE 2016, Ph.D. ECE 2020 Postdoctoral Research Associate, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at Princeton University Original Air Date: Monday, January 25, 2021 Watch the video Tune in to the most recent TECHnically Creative: Georgia Tech Alumni and the Arts episode with María Santos, M.S. ECE 2016, Ph.D. ECE 2020! Her research focuses on the distributed coordination of multi-robot systems, with a particular focus on modeling heterogeneous capabilities within large swarms of robots. She also explores the use of swarm robotics in various forms of artistic expression, research for which she was awarded a La Caixa Fellowship for Graduate Studies in North America during her doctoral studies. María is now a postdoctoral research associate in the department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at Princeton University. Mehwish Wasi, BA 2016 Software consultant and abstract artist Original Air Date: Monday, December 14, 2020 Watch the video Mehwish Wasi is an Atlanta-bred and -based contemporary abstract artist. A graduate of Georgia Tech and a software consultant by trade, Mehwish finds art to be the creative outlet her brain craves. Sit with her as she chats about the freedom she finds in creating abstract art because of the ability to experiment and let intuition guide her process. As a local Atlantan, Mehwish wants her art to impact her community - she currently volunteers with the Atlanta Community Food Bank and donates 5% of the proceeds from her art to help local Georgians fight food insecurity. George Levert, M.S. IMGT 1974 Photographer Original Air Date: October 12, 2020 Watch the video Having served as a Naval Officer in the Civil Engineering Corps in Vietnam, George W. Levert, M.S. IMGT 1974 studied business in graduate school to complement his engineering degree. After a long career in venture capital (he was the Founding Partner (Retired), at Kinetic Ventures, LLC), he is now focused on the art of photography. George talks about his career and his quest to undertake cultural photography around the world, for which he has traveled to more than 80 countries on five continents. Makenna Carroll, MGT 2011 Senior Product Manager at Adidas Original Air Date: September 10, 2020 Watch the video Makenna Carroll graduated from Scheller College of Business in 2011 and always knew she wanted to work in the fashion and retail space. For the last five years, she has worked for Adidas where she is a senior product manager, focused on consumer relevant storytelling and products within lifestyle footwear. She discusses how her time at Georgia Tech prepared her for her journey into fashion retail and the role creativity plays in her work. Please note, there were technical difficulties and the recording is audio only. Matt Moulthrop, MBA 2004 Artist Original Air Date: August 24, 2020 Watch the video Matt Moulthrop is a third-generation wood turner who strives to blend both tradition and innovation into an art form that honors his legacy and creates a new one. In this conversation, he discusses the science of his craft and materials, as well as his deep family connections to Georgia Tech. Annie Eaton, IAML 2010 Founder of Futurist & Amebous Labs Original Air Date: August 10, 2020 Watch the video Annie Eaton is the founder and executive producer of Amebous Labs, a gaming software studio and offshoot of her parent company, Futurist, that will soon open a 4,457 square foot VR studio in Midtown Atlanta. An initial interest in virtual reality and augmented reality technology, that wasn't mached by her employer at the time, led her to branch out with a friend and establish XR Atlanta (which boasts 1,400 members) and then their own company. She goes on to discuss the value that VR and gaming technology can provide to the human experience. Michael Boatright, ICS 1982 Professional Photographer Original Air Date: July 27, 2020 Michael's relationship with photography began at age 12 when his dad, a professional photographer for many years, taught him camera and darkroom techniques. In the early 1990s, working for IBM, he began experimenting with and developing techniques in digital multimedia storytelling, using emerging A/V hardware and software and Internet technologies. Music, dance, and theater are Michael's passions. His professional portfolio includes work for DramaTech Theater, Theatrical Outfit, Out of Hand Theater, the Sideways Contemporary Dance Company, Gwinnett Ballet, and professional work for many Atlanta musicians and groups. Archel Bernard, STC 2011 Fashion Designer & Owner of Bombchel Factory and Mango Rags Boutique Original Air Date: July 20, 2020 Watch the video Archel Bernard is the owner of The Bombchel Factory and Mango Rags boutique in Monrovia, Liberia. She moved to the West African country after graduating from Georgia Tech in Atlanta. She now specializes in dreaming up contemporary African clothing, training disadvantaged women to sew, and helping the women to become self-sufficient. Archel shares how her time at Tech taught her to be resourceful and ultimately prepared her to set up her own business that allowed her to share her creativity to the world while also providing "a hand UP" to the women she employs. Megan Fechter, BA 2017 Artist and Studio Owner Original Air Date: July 13, 2020 Watch the video Megan Fechter began painting while she was a student at Georgia Tech, and "took a leap of faith to pursue [her] dream job" as a professional artist. She went on to establish The Reverie, a creative co-working studio for women in southwest Atlanta. Learn how she took the step to leave a traditional career path and set up an innovative environment fostering collaboration and artistic exploration. Russ Todd, EE 1990 Managing Partner at Akustiks Original Air Date: June 22, 2020 Watch the video Russ Todd is one of the managing partners of Akustiks, a global design firm with affiliate offices in Mexico and Brazil, dedicated to "creating performance spaces worldwide that are wonderfully tuned instruments for listening." In this talk with Aaron Shackelford, director of Georgia Tech Arts, Russ talks about how a lifelong passion for music and efforts as a child to hack into his parents' sound system to play his electric guitar (blowing out a few speakers in the process), set the stage for him to pursue a career designing accoustic spaces and consulting for performing arts venues. Facebook Instagram Twitter Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Arts@Tech 349 Ferst Dr. Atlanta, GA 30332-0468 (404) 894-2787 info@arts.gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login