Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Department of English and Creative Writing News All the Latest Happenings 918-631-2248 Zink Hall, 365 Map Email https://youtu.be/nBJ0RZwChY8 English & Creative Writing English Undergraduate Programs English Graduate Programs University Writing Program Faculty News Contact the Department Check out our latest newsletter! Spring 2022 English & Creative Writing Newsletter The Department of English and Creative Writing is distinguished for its excellence in teaching and research. Our faculty specialize in Anglophone literary and cultural traditions across a millennium, with interdisciplinary connections to film and media studies, philosophy, history, women’s and sexuality studies, fine arts, and other fields. We offer courses on everything from canonical figures in British and American literature to graphic literature, gaming, digital scholarship, medical humanities, ecocriticism, queer studies, and other innovative areas. English students and faculty at TU are a community of scholars and artists devoted to an expansive range of established and burgeoning approaches to literary studies. Our undergraduate programs in English and Creative Writing feature seminar-style classes that provide students with many of the skills desired by employers in today’s economy. These include the ability to analyze complex ideas; to work in creative and collaborative settings across cultures, genres, and styles; and to communicate effectively and professionally. We pride ourselves on our small class sizes (usually 15-20 students), which allow us to complement lectures with discussion and close collaborations between students and faculty. Some of our undergraduates have pursued graduate studies in not only English and creative writing, but also law, medicine, business, and media. Others have gone on to highly successful careers in public service as well as private industry, including teaching, writing, publishing, communications, and much more. The beauty of English studies is that it opens a student up to a multitude of career options. Our graduate programs, leading to M.A. and Ph.D. degrees, are known especially for the close collaboration between students and faculty, for the depth of resources available to students in several areas of study, and for the many opportunities for training and development in teaching. You can find more information here: Undergraduate Programs in English and Creative Writing Graduate Programs in English Our undergraduate majors can specialize in literature or creative writing, or work with their advisors to design a stream of study that best reflects their interests. Creative writing students focus on literary technique, style, form, genre, and the Anglo-American literary tradition while developing as poets, writers of fiction, creative nonfiction, and performance-based work. Literature students, likewise, have opportunities for coursework in creative writing as a complement to their work across literary periods. There are many more opportunities beyond the classroom. Two renowned scholarly journals, James Joyce Quarterly and Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature, are based in the department, providing many of our graduate students with editorial experience. The Modernist Journals Project, a digital archive of early-twentieth-century literary magazines, is a flagship resource in modernism that offers assistantship opportunities for graduate students and internships for undergraduates. Our department is also home to Nimrod, an international journal of new poetry, fiction, and nonfiction, and Stylus, a literary and fine arts journal run by our undergraduates. We enjoy close ties to programs in theatre and music, as well as art, media studies, foreign languages, and history. Every year we host prominent visiting artists, authors, and guest lecturers, and our faculty members regularly organize conferences both on campus and in the city. Our students have access to numerous mentorship and internship programs. These provide valuable exposure to many facets of the professional world. The Tulsa Artist Fellowship mentorship program, a collaboration between TAF and the Oklahoma Center for the Humanities, matches TU students with TAF writers for one-on-one work that offers both artistic feedback and professional guidance into the writing and publishing industry. In addition to the MJP, our scholarly journals offer several undergraduate internships, as does the Office of Strategic Marketing & Communication. With the writing and thinking skills they develop during their time with us, English and Creative Writing alumni typically find rewarding jobs in a wide range of occupations, many of them beyond what is traditionally considered the career path of English or creative writing. More broadly, college graduates with degrees in English have been shown to be among the most successful professionals in the business world across the duration of their careers. Alumni and Careers TU English graduates are in a variety of fields and hold positions where the ability to communicate effectively in writing and speech are valued as important professional assets. Meet some alumni and explore their career stories. Brennen Gray (BA ’20): Grant writer in the nonprofit sector Kate Williams (PhD ’15): Professional writer and communications business owner Catherine Roberts (BA/BS ’12): Health journalist in New York City Doug Wedge (BA ’96): Baseball historian and clerk of court for the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in the Western District of Oklahoma Zachary Harvat (BA ’13): High school teacher at Sidwell Friends School Jason McVicker (BA ’08, JD ’12): Shareholder at McAfee & Taft Jennifer Ashbaugh (BA ’04): National development director at Big Brothers, Big Sisters Amanda Sigler (BA ’04): Assistant professor of English at Baylor University Academic Journals The University of Tulsa hosts many academic journals and publications that are referenced around the world. Two distinguished academic journals, The James Joyce Quarterly and Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature, are edited and published under the auspices of the department, and the innovative web-based Modernist Journals Project, a collaboration between Brown University and The University of Tulsa, is directed from the department. Undergraduate internships are available at the MJP and both journals and at the international literary journal Nimrod. Learn more. James Joyce Quarterly Nimrod International Journal Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature The Modernist Journals Project Stylus Journal of Art & Writing Recent Newsletters Spring 2022 – The body contagious, a lifetime of learning and recent faculty publications Fall 2021 – Kate Williams, Dustin Pearson and the Modernist Journals Project Spring 2021 – Names to faces, Bob Dylan and decolonizing post-secondary studies 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT