Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Museum Science and Management Alumni Unique breadth of experiences Experiential Learning Hands-on experience with variety > Museum Science and Management https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_AwF8ePRixw&t=2s MUSEUM SCIENCE MANAGEMENT Apply Now Request Information The Museum Science and Management (MSM) master’s program at The University of Tulsa provides both interdisciplinary course work and hands-on experience. It is designed to prepare future museum professionals in the areas of administration, fiscal management, collections care, research and education. Program overview and outcomes Students gain experience using objects and collections in research, exhibition, publication and programming, as well as a background in museum administration, leadership and fundraising. Internship opportunities are available at regional and national cultural institutions that provide practical experience for students in their selected areas of specialization. MSM faculty provide mentoring to ensure students gain a broad understanding of professional opportunities and responsibilities. Program graduates are ready to take up careers in museums, historical agencies, archives, national parks and related institutions. Prospective students TU’s MSM program is open to students who have earned an undergraduate degree in any academic discipline from an accredited university. Admission to a particular track within the MSM program, however, may be limited based on prior coursework and is decided by the MSM graduate committee. Facilities The entrance of Gilcrease Museum Gilcrease Museum is one of the country’s best facilities for the preservation and study of American art and history. It houses the world’s largest, most comprehensive collection of art and artifacts of the American West, including historical manuscripts, documents and maps, as well as an unparalleled collection of Native American art and artifacts. TU’s Helmerich Center for American Research is home to the Gilcrease Library and Archive, a collection that includes an array of materials telling the story of America. The Helmerich Center is also home to a paper conservation lab and a digitization studio, while TU’s McFarlin Library curates complementary collections. The Henry Zarrow Center for Art and Education, across from Guthrie Green in downtown Tulsa, provides exciting new gallery space for contemporary exhibits and a suite of art education classrooms. Program Objectives Master of Arts in Museum Science and Management Students who successfully completes a master’s degree in Museum Science and Management will: Develop basic skills for cataloging museum and archival collections. Learn basic conservation principles needed by all museum professionals Learn to design the layout for an exhibition and to write descriptive labels. Demonstrate an understanding of legal and ethical perspectives of museum work. Gain experience in working with committees. Understand how to use visitor survey data to evaluate exhibitions and programs. Degree Options Museum Science and Management, M.A. Prepares students to become museum professionals through classroom preparation, a commitment to hands-on projects, and meaningful internships. Application Requirements Applicants must submit all required application materials prior to an admission decision and meet all general standards for graduate admission at The University of Tulsa. Required application materials and general standards for admission are available on the Graduate School website. Other requirements include: Bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution. A minimum TOEFL score of 90 on the Internet-based exam, 232 on the computer-based exam, or 575 on the paper exam for students whose native language is not English. Non-native speakers may submit a minimum score of 6.5 from the IELTS examination to substitute for the TOEFL score. An undergraduate grade point average of at least 3.0. Students who do not satisfy this requirement but have at least a 3.0 GPA in their major field may be admitted on probation. Letters of recommendation from at least two professors or former supervisors who are familiar with the applicant’s technical background, work performance and academic potential. A Statement of Purpose that includes a description of the applicant’s background, rationale for the desired track, specific interests in museum science and management, and long-term professional objectives. Program of study The Museum Science and Management Degree Program leads to a Master of Arts degree. Full-time students should be able to complete the degree program in two years, and part-time students should expect to complete the degree program in three to four years. The degree program requires the completion of 33 credit hours, including classroom instruction coupled with actual work in a museum setting. The curriculum consists of: A museum science and management core (12 credit hours) A selection of courses either in one track or in a variety of tracks (12 credit hours) A selection of electives (6 credit hours) An internship or capstone project (3 credit hours) The faculty at TU and the staff of the Gilcrease Museum collaborate to provide in-depth opportunities to specialize in the curation, care and exhibition of American art, archaeology, ethnology and archives. Contact Us Anthropology Department William Smith, Ph.D. Assistant Director, Helmerich Center for American Research Interim Program Coordinator, Museum Science and Management Gilcrease Museum/University of Tulsa (918) 631-6414 Office william-smith@utulsa.edu Graduate School Lorton Hall 201 800 South Tucker Drive Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104 918-631-2336 or 1-800-882-4723 grad@utulsa.edu Your Name Email* Phone Message* This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Comments This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT