Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Department of Media Studies Alumni Landing a dream job 918-631-2332 Oliphant Hall, 128 Map Email https://youtu.be/efbJNKj9Zkc MEDIA STUDIES Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Faculty News Contact the Department Activist. Creative director. Critic. Journalist. Media scholar. Producer. Publicist. Your dream career in media awaits you. Welcome to the Department of Media Studies. Our students prepare for careers in the 21st century world of media through invaluable coursework and hands-on experience that blends media theory and history, creative and critical production, public relations and advertising, journalism and multimedia storytelling and other fields. Our Students Take innovative curriculum with nationally recognized media scholars Produce films, studio shows, and podcasts with TU’s student-run collaborative, the TUTV Media Lab Write and edit for the student-run newspaper, The Collegian Compete in national student advertising competitions Study abroad and under leading industry mentors in Tulsa Try out media careers as interns at local and national outlets Build career-launching portfolios with tailored senior projects Graduate into media careers and postgraduate studies in cities such as Tulsa, Kansas City, Dallas, Oklahoma City, St. Louis, Chicago, Los Angeles, Washington, D.C., and New York City, And much more. Our department does not simply prepare graduates for the working world. We provide pathways that launch alumni toward well-lit careers and better lives in a highly mediated world. These pathways seek to synthesize critical theory and creative practice at every turn, integrating the best of education and multiple modes of media engagement. Our courses immerse students in Interdisciplinary learning Critical thinking Historical contexts Theoretical frameworks Pre-professional experience Engagement with the broader mediated world. TU Advertising Program The TU advertising program and the TU School of Art, Design & Art History collaborate to form the interdisciplinary ad program which covers disciplines including advertising, public relations, digital media, graphic design and persuasion. Learn more. TUTV Media Lab The TUTV Media Lab is a student-run media collaborative with a weekly studio program, podcasts and opportunities for students to create their own project ideas using media. Learn more. The Collegian The Collegian is a student newspaper of The University of Tulsa. Since 1898 its staff has brought excellent journalism to the university each week to foster a lively, academic and entertaining atmosphere for all members of the campus community. Learn more. Our Alumni Media studies prepares students to excel in every facet of society. From politicians to public relations managers, the diverse career opportunities is evident in our alumni. Popsey Floyd Burdened with a reputation for crime and violence, a south Tulsa neighborhood at 61st and Peoria voted to be renamed Hope Valley. No longer on the sidelines of progress, the community is striving to exemplify its new name. At the center of the effort is Tulsa Police Department’s first community resource officer and TU alumnus Amley “Popsey” Floyd (BA ’09). Learn more. Anna America A colorful poster adorned with scribbled requests for city improvements — like creating cat parks and better education funding — is the centerpiece of Tulsa City Councilor Anna America’s office. The artwork is titled “Kids’ Ideas for Tulsa,” and when children visit this 1985 TU alumna’s office, they simply grab a marker to advocate for their issues on the poster. Learn more. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT