Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences A world of opportunities Explore Programs Kendall College of Arts and Sciences challenges, enriches and expands your conceptions of the world. Be prepared to ask compelling questions, address complex problems with creative solutions, engage respectfully and knowledgeably with diverse people and cultures, and contribute to the advancement of society in meaningful ways. The Student Experience In the Kendall College of Arts & Sciences, take classes that spark self-discovery and lead you to research the tough questions. Step outside the classroom to engage in our numerous student organizations, and intern with employers who inspire careers. Together, let's cultivate your boundless potential. Who We Are Majors Internships Research Student Life We cannot forget that as a nation we have not recovered from the 200+ years of the disease that is racism, which has transformed and infected our social structures. Read the full statement from TU’s Office of Diversity & Engagement, Explore Opportunities Student opportunities are only as limited as your imagination. From studying fossils under a microscope to hanging your painting in our art gallery, tailor your studies and activities to shape your career by using our state-of-the-art facilities, labs, collections and academic journals. Give your resume an international twist with our global education program, and let our alumni network embolden your first career steps. Labs, Collections & Galleries Academic Publications Global Education Alumni Studying abroad has been one of the best experiences that could’ve come my way at this time in my life. It’s given me the freedom to come into my own while also challenging me. Alex Isaak, Media Studies, Creative Writing View More Events News All News Stories Urban rust and renewal through the camera’s eye Acting on his fascination with the forces of urban blight and gentrification, Associate Professor of Art/Photography Dan Farnum’s recent work tells complex stories about youth, decay, socio-economic struggle and undetermined futures. James Joyce Quarterly announces leadership transition Walter Professor of English Sean Latham has stepped down from the editorship of the James Joyce Quarterly to lead TU’s public humanities initiatives while developing the fledging TU Institute for Bob Dylan Studies. Civil wars and enlightened eras: Role-playing through it all Okie rainbows: Alumna’s first novel a lesbian love story set in Tulsa Rising writer hones her craft with multifaceted journalism internship TU alumnus brings music out of the concert hall and into the streets Anthropology Ph.D. student awarded Phi Kappa Phi Graduate Research Grant 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT