Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Political Science Undergraduate Programs Alumni Political Science Launches Career Alumni TU Alumna Kendra Horn Elected to Congress > Department of Political Science > Political Science Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/NYxOrX1yFPg POLITICAL SCIENCE Political Science Undergraduate Programs Faculty News Contact the Department Political scientists study political ideas and analyze governments, policies and political trends. Politics involves systematic preparation for the law, government service, administration, journalism, teaching, lobbying, nonprofit activities, the intelligence services, the military and police, and corporate strategy. Political science students gain a broad knowledge of domestic and foreign political institutions, processes and problems. The political science program in The University of Tulsa’s Kendall College of Arts and Sciences offers a bachelor of arts degree that focuses on three areas: American politics, international studies, and political and legal theory. Undergraduates choose the political science degree track for many reasons. Some imagine themselves in the halls of power and seek the fast track of political involvement in parties, candidates and issues. Others analyze the sweep of space and time showing the tragedy of clashing nations and people. Politics shows language students how the speakers of their languages are governed and prepares them for international careers. Business managers and executives have gone global and search for the bottom line with the eye of a political analyst. Scientists raise questions of ethics, fundraising and societal direction that only statecraft can answer. Teachers have a natural interest in understanding the spirit of American democracy. The study of law also is closely linked to political science. Program Objectives Learning Objectives: By the time students have finished the three introductory 2000-level courses required for the major, they will achieve at least one of the Program Learning Outcomes listed under each of the subfields. Students will achieve both Program Learning Outcomes in any subfield in which they have taken one or more 3000 to 4000-level courses and/or have completed the Senior Project. Students from the American politics subfield will be able to: Explain current political and governmental structures and/or processes in the United States. Critically analyze the social, cultural, and ideological development of American political ideas and/or institutions. Students from the international studies subfield will be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of politics, institutions, culture and governance issues within and among states, regional, international and transnational actors. For International Relations courses: Analyze the historical development and patterns of interaction among the above actors and evaluate the structural, ideological, social, economic, and political factors that shape those interactions. or For Comparative Politics courses: Comprehensively synthesize in a comparative context the political structures, institutions, governing processes, and cultures of a diverse selection of developed and developing countries. Students from the political and legal theory subfield will be able to: Explain the great political thinkers and arguments that have shaped the development of political life in the West for over 2500 years. Critically analyze contemporary arguments about recurrently contested political ideas, such as equality, liberty, virtue, tolerance, and justice. Degree Options Political Science, B.A. Focuses on political ideas, political institutions, and political processes touch and mold our lives. Political Science Minor Non-majors interested in learning more about political science are encouraged to add it to their degree program as a minor. Typical Four Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER ENGL-1004 ENGL-1033 AS-1001 MATH-1083 or above Foreign Language Foreign Language Block II Block I POL-2053 POL 2000 International SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER FS-1973 Block I Foreign Language Foreign Language Block III with lab Block III no lab Block II Block II POL-2083 POL UD Elective JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Block II AS-2001 Minor Minor POL UD Elective POL UD Elective POL UD Elective POL UD Elective POL UD Elective POL UD Elective General Elective SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Minor Minor Minor Senior Project General Elective General Elective General Elective General Elective General Elective General Elective General Elective 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT