Skip to main content University of Southern California Arts Primary Menu MenuAn icon that consists of three parallel horizontal lines suggestive of a list. SearchAn icon of a magnifying glass. Search for: CloseAn icon of a letter X.Close Search Homepage Arts at USC The University of Southern California offers an outstanding collection of art schools within a research university setting–unique amongst its peers. USC’s six arts schools, including the USC Fisher Museum and the USC Pacific Asia Museum, collectively produce a diverse array of recitals, performances, exhibitions, screenings, and lectures year-round. Architecture The USC School of Architecture fuses history, theory, technology and design into a variety of degree programs that prepare students for the rigors of the professional design practices. arch.usc.edu Art & Design The USC Roski School of Art and Design’s faculty are internationally recognized artists who offer a progressive approach for experimentation in all forms of visual arts. roski.usc.edu Cinematic Arts The USC School of Cinematic Arts trains fully-formed media makers, collaborators, and scholars situated to flourish in their chosen career path. cinema.usc.edu Dance The USC Kaufman School of Dance is at the forefront of creating a new model for dance—a hybrid art form expressed in new media, scholarship, studio practice, music, choreography and performance. kaufman.usc.edu Dramatic Arts The USC School of Dramatic Arts’ conservatory environment blends with the full academic experience found at a major research university. dramaticarts.usc.edu Music The USC Thornton School of Music consistently ranks among the top one percent of the nation’s music schools and conservatories. music.usc.edu USC Roski School of Art and Design: USC Wellness Campaign Roski students created self-portraits that captured the complex emotions of living under COVID-19 safety protocols. Visit the online gallery Arts Events "Sutra and Bible: Faith and the Japanese American World War II Incarceration" Exhibit at JANM Sat, Feb 26 through Sun, Nov 27 Japanese American National Museum 100 N Central Ave, Los Angeles, CA 90012 "Sutra and Bible: Faith and the Japanese American World War II Incarceration" Exhibit at JANM Sat, Feb 26 through Sun, Nov 27 Japanese American National Museum 100 N Central Ave, Los Angeles, CA 90012 "Sutra and Bible: Faith and the Japanese American World War II Incarceration" Exhibit at JANM Sat, Feb 26 through Sun, Nov 27 Japanese American National Museum 100 N Central Ave, Los Angeles, CA 90012 "Sutra and Bible: Faith and the Japanese American World War II Incarceration" Exhibit at JANM Sat, Feb 26 through Sun, Nov 27 Japanese American National Museum 100 N Central Ave, Los Angeles, CA 90012 More events USC Visions & Voices: The Arts and Humanities Initiative The Arts and Humanities Initiative highlights USC’s commitment to interdisciplinary approaches, featuring a spectacular selection of events conceived and organized by faculty and schools throughout the university. Every Visions and Voices event endeavors to challenge students and expand their perspectives. View the 2021-2022 schedule Arts News Showcasing the role of food in the lives of Mexican and Mexican American grandmothers in L.A.May 25, 2022 USC Dornsife's Sarah Portnoy and USC Annenberg's Amara Aguilar join forces to create the exhibit Abuelita's Kitchen: Mexican Food Stories and a related course teaching students how to use digital media to share oral histories. From stage and screen to the academe, it’s all about storytelling for new PhDMay 25, 2022 COMMENCEMENT 2022: Lauren Alexandra Sowa's experience as a child actor drove her decision to focus her USC doctoral studies on media, production culture and fandom. Peace Pods bring islands of serenity to USC communityMay 3, 2022 The Peace Pods project, a collaborative effort of USC Arts in Action, provides solitary space for people to decompress from everyday life. Trojan Family gets up-close introduction to new band director at spring concertApril 27, 2022 The USC Concert Band's spring concert on Sunday, "Inspirations," features music with a personal meaning to Director Jacob Vogel. Art reflects two worlds: one of peril, one of possibilitiesApril 26, 2022 Students from USC Roski School of Art and Design use their creative talents to reflect on nature, how it has endured, how it struggles, and most important, how humankind has used–and misused–it. Luis J. Rodriguez, Reginald Dwayne Betts among winners of L.A. Times Book PrizesApril 23, 2022 The Book Prizes ceremony at USC's Bovard Auditorium is a prologue to this weekend's Los Angeles Times Festival of Books at USC, the nation's largest literary and cultural festival. More news Arts In Action Arts In Action supports and creates work that builds upon USC’s pledge to address society’s most pressing issues. By providing resources and funding arts projects within the university and beyond, Arts In Action inspire seeds of change in our community that make a lasting impact. Learn more USC ART SCHOOLS School of Architecture School of Cinematic Arts Roski School of Art and Design Thornton School of Music School of Dramatic Arts Glorya Kaufman School of Dance ARTS PROGRAMMING Visions and Voices Libraries Fisher Museum of Art Pacific Asia Museum Classical KUSC Cultural Tour: The Gamble House ADDITIONAL ARTS PROGRAMS Arts Journalism Creative Writing International Artists Program University of Southern California University Communications Privacy Notice Notice of Non-discrimination