Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > School of Music > Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Student Performances and Performance Opportunities https://youtu.be/DDKv4V_HeB4 MUSIC Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Us Why join a TU Ensemble? Our goals for ensemble participation at TU is, first and foremost, to provide an enjoyable and enriching experience to the students! In addition to music majors, students from all departments and colleges are eligible to participate in any of the university’s music activities through audition. From supporting TU football in Chapman Stadium in the Sound of the Golden Hurricane, to performing a time-honored Beethoven symphony, we aim to complement the university’s other academic studies while providing a social and musical outlet that meets our students’ range of needs. For the large number of non-majors participating, our goal is to provide a musical experience which is enriching and meaningful, targeted at the right level for students to be able to participate fully while keeping expectations for outside-of-class practice time manageable. For music majors, more challenging repertoire is appropriate, but still targeted with the same approach – that outside-of-class time expectations should be mindful of the student’s other responsibilities. Additionally, because of our small size, students can pursue performance across genres – marching band, concert band, jazz, orchestral and choral – without becoming forced to specialize in one genre or another. “Where words fail, music speaks. ” – Hans Christian Anderson TU Symphony Orchestra The TU Symphony Orchestra is a full-year performing ensemble comprised of music majors and non-majors and is open to any TU student by audition. The orchestra performs music from the standard orchestral repertoire, accompanies student concerto/aria winners in the annual President’s Concert, featured yearly in the Béla Rózsa Memorial Concert and is the performing ensemble for the TU Fall Commencement exercises. The ensemble also partners with TU School of Music students and faculty in various projects designed to provide realistic training for future professional orchestral musicians and conductors. The TU Symphony recently traveled to Washington DC to perform as an honor group at the College Orchestra Directors Association (CODA) National Conference. Learn more The Sound of the Golden Hurricane TU’s marching band, the “Sound of the Golden Hurricane”, performs several different halftime shows during the course of the fall football season. The Sound draws crowd attention and enthusiasm through high level performance of custom arrangements and marching routines. The band performs at each home football game, selected away games and post-season bowl games. During basketball season, members of the Sound form two separate bands of equal instrumentation which alternate playing for men’s and women’s games in the student section of the Reynolds Center. Basketball bands accompany the team to any post-season NCAA Tournament games. No audition is required for membership in TU’s Athletic Bands. Learn more TU Jazz Ensembles The jazz ensembles at the University of Tulsa are recognized as among the region’s best. These include the Jazz Guitar Ensemble, Jazz Combo, Jazz Singers, and Big Bands I and II. Auditions for the jazz ensembles take place during the first week of the fall semester. The jazz ensembles perform regional as well as on-campus concerts, at national festivals, and have been selected numerous times to perform as honor groups at the annual convention of the Oklahoma Music Educators Association. The jazz studies program brings prominent professional jazz artists to campus each year to perform, record and tour with the various jazz ensembles. Recent guests have included bass trombonist and electric bassist Chris Brubeck, trumpeter Byron Stripling, trombonist Conrad Herwig, pianist Eldar Djangirov, trumpeter Walter White and saxophonist Tim Ries. Learn more The TU Wind Ensemble / The Symphonic Winds TU Wind Ensemble The TU Wind Ensemble is a select group of wind players and percussionists. Repertoire for the Wind Ensemble draws from historical and contemporary composers for wind band. Recent performances have included the music of Maslanka, Mackey, Bryant, Grainger, Ives and Richard Strauss. The Wind Ensemble also features Brass and Woodwind Choir repertoire. The ensemble meets during the spring semester and performs two full concerts in addition to Commencement and tours locally and regionally. In addition to local and regional touring, the TU Wind Ensemble has been invited to perform as an honor group at the 2018 College Band Directors National Association (CBDNA) Conference in Houston, Texas. TU Symphonic Winds The TU Symphonic Winds is comprised of students who participate in the Athletic Bands during the fall semester as well as students who would like to play an instrument in a concert ensemble. Auditions for the ensemble are not required. The group plays separate literature from that of the Wind Ensemble, but still draws its repertoire from well-respected composers for the idiom. Recent performances have included the music of Persichetti, Graham, Curnow, Arnold and Clifton Williams. The Symphonic Winds meet during the spring semester and perform in concerts and for University events. Learn more TU Opera Theatre TU Opera Theatre is open through audition to all qualified students interested in exploring the Opera experience. Complete works and programs of opera scenes are given, drawing from the standard and contemporary literature of opera, operetta, and musical theatre. Character and music development are stressed, as well as backstage organization and proper stage deportment. Learn more TU Concert Chorale / Cappella Chamber Singers TU Concert Chorale The TU Concert Chorale is a combination of the TU Chorale and Cappella Chamber Singers. The ensemble performs larger works, usually in combination with orchestra. Recent concert works have included the Mozart Requiem, Faure Requiem, and Verdi Requiem. Cappella Chamber Singers This select choral ensemble performs music from the Renaissance through the 21st Century. The award winning ensemble is selected through competitive auditions and numbers from 24-32 members. Cappella has been chosen to perform at prestigious events throughout the region and nation including appearances as an Honor Group at the state convention of the Oklahoma Music Educators Association and a debut performance at Carnegie Hall in 2010. The ensemble performs formal fall and spring concerts as well as many on-campus functions throughout the academic year. Please enjoy this performance by the Capella Chamber Singers for their 2021 spring concert. Kim Childs, conducting, Chris Powell, piano Cappella Chamber Singers 2021 Spring Concert Concert Program Learn more 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT