Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply What will you make this summer? Summer Programs Courses Faculty Admissions, Registration & Housing FAQ EXPLORE Summer Programs at the School of the Arts Each summer, School of the Arts welcomes students of all ages and levels of artistic experience to Columbia’s campus in New York City and to Columbia's Global Centers around the world. Summer arts courses are created and taught by School of the Arts graduate faculty, as well as by guest artists who are leaders in their fields. Admissions to summer programs at the School of the Arts is open to all who want to study with us. The application is fast and easy and neither a transcript nor a BA is required (with the exception of the Advanced Painting Intensive). I learned not to fear colors. Not only that, I learned to love them deeply. Before I would only draw with pencil or in black and white, but after this course my medium needs color in it. It has changed how I view the world – every day is more interesting now that it is bursting with color. Student, Introduction to Painting, 2015 Madeline Morris: Preparing to Work for Stephen Colbert Undergraduate Visiting Student Madeline Morris was drawn from the University of Virginia to Columbia University during Columbia Summer 2017 for the Arts in the Summer program. Read more Deborah Ten: Transitioning from PR to Copywriter Deborah Ten graduated from university in Tokyo and works as a copywriter and Japanese-to-English translator. She attended Columbia University during Columbia Summer 2017 as a visiting student in the Arts in the Summer program. Read more Our instructor brought a magic to the classroom. His knowledge of poetry, both conventional and contemporary, his gift for finding the value in every student's work, his ability to find ways to further improve upon this value, were incomparable. Student, Advanced Poetry Workshop, 2015 Columbia students do not need to apply (with the exception of the Advanced Painting Intensive), but they do need to register. All visiting students will need to apply to the School of Professional Studies and register upon acceptance. VIEW OUR COURSES Summer 2022 Deadlines Current Columbia Students Session A, Final Deadline: April 1, 2022 Session B, Final Deadline: June 1, 2022 Learn More⇒ Visiting Students Session A, Final Deadline: April 11, 2022 Session B, Final Deadline: May 23, 2022 Learn More⇒ JOIN OUR MAILING LIST Questions? For questions related to admissions, registration, tuition, housing, transcripts, examinations, grades, university resources, and important dates, please email [email protected]. For course-related questions, such as curricula, syllabi, materials, prerequisites, and faculty, please send an email directly to the Summer Departmental Representative for the course. They are: ROB KING Departmental Representative for Film [email protected] DOROTHEA LASKY Departmental Representative for Writing [email protected] GREGORY AMENOFF Departmental Representative for Visual Arts [email protected] Inquries about Theatre courses should be sent to [email protected] News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University