Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Julie Dobrow Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, Admissions Julie Dobrow is currently Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid at Columbia University’s School of the Arts. In this position, she oversees admissions and financial aid strategy and implementation for the graduate Film, Theatre, Writing, and Visual Arts programs. full profile Niquette Johnson Officer, Admissions and Financial Aid, Admissions Niquette Johnson has served as a Financial Aid and Admissions Officer since 2018. She has worked in higher education since 2006, specializing in admissions and financial aid. full profile Tori Sheffer Admissions Assistant, Admissions Tori Sheffer joined the School of the Arts in September of 2021. She began specializing in admissions during her undergraduate career at Fairleigh Dickinson University, where she received a B.A. in Theatre Arts in May 2020. full profile Kenny Wong Director of Admissions and Financial Aid, Admissions Kenny Wong joined the School of the Arts in 2008 and has served in Admissions and Financial Aid since 2010. Prior to joining the School of the Arts, he worked as a stock trader and has degree in finance. full profile News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University