Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply 'Soy Sola' by Current Students Sets European Premiere Read more Student Affairs Office of Student Affairs COVID-19 Resources Additional Resources for those in need of support during this time: Counseling and Psychological Services: Can be reached 24/7 at 212-854-2878 & additional resources at https://health.columbia.edu/content/counseling-and-psychological-services Office of the University Chaplain: [email protected] Office of Religious Life: Can be reached at 212-854-2184 & at [email protected] Support for staff, instructors: 24/7 Employee Assistance Program at 888-673-1153 & worklife well-being resources at https://worklife.columbia.edu/content/mental-emotional-well-being A Welcome Message from Laila Maher Dean of Student and Alumni Affairs The Office of Student Affairs provides a wide range of services. In addition to guiding new students through the process of transitioning to the School of the Arts, we plan the School-wide orientation, graduation ceremony, and many events and panels in between. We assist students with registration, billing, and co-curricular requirements and activities. We support student groups and manage student events and activities, and we help students navigate many of the central offices across the University, including Health Services (which houses the Office of Disability Services, Insurance, Immunization, and Counseling and Psychological Services), Career Services, Housing, Public Safety, University Life, the International Students and Scholars Office, and the Registrars Office. Our office also helps to uphold many of the School and University-wide policies and we manage the School’s disciplinary procedures. The Artists’ Resource Center (ARC), also part of our Office, is a portal containing specially curated funding opportunities and career resources for students and alumni at the Columbia University School of the Arts. Available exclusively to School of the Arts students and alumni, the ARC is host to a database of more than 1,100 grants, scholarships, residencies, and other funding opportunities for artists. The ARC also contains resources for professional artists, from financial and legal services to grantwriting tips and information about joining guilds and unions. After graduation, the Office of Alumni Affairs provides more than 7000 alumni artists, creators, and leaders with meaningful opportunities to stay connected with the School of the Arts, the Columbia Alumni Association (CAA), and one another through alumni programming, benefits, a monthly newsletter, and collaborations with CAA Arts Access. We are also the best place to go when you’re not sure what to do or whom to ask your question. Ultimately, the most important thing we do is support and advocate for our students during their time at the School and into their lives as alumni. Student News Film From Pharmacist to Film Student: Kaelo Justin Iyizoba From Pharmacist to Film Student: Kaelo Justin Iyizoba May 17, 2022 Eleven stories of life, learning, and personal reinvention. read more Visual Arts Three Current Students Shortlisted for the Frankenthaler Climate Art Awards Three Current Students Shortlisted for the Frankenthaler Climate Art Awards May 4, 2022 Three current Visual Arts students, Linnéa Gad, Vivian Vivas, and Char Jeré, were shortlisted for the Frankenthaler Climate Art Awards. read more Writing Writing Student Wally Suphap Awarded First Place in the Fish Short Memoir Prize Writing Student Wally Suphap Awarded First Place in the Fish Short Memoir Prize May 2, 2022 Current nonfiction student Wally Suphap recently placed first in the Fish Short Memoir Prize for his story, "Thirteen Ways of Interrogating An Incident." Suphap's winning work will be published in Fish Anthology 2022. read more Sound Arts Alumnus Nolan Lem '15 Featured in Solo Show Alumnus Nolan Lem '15 Featured in Solo Show April 5, 2022 Sound Art alumnus Nolan Lem ‘15 is featured in a solo show, Surface Song, at Eks-Rummet Gallery in Copenhagen, Denmark. read more Theatre Anita Abdinezhad ’22 makes her Broadway debut in 'POTUS' Anita Abdinezhad ’22 makes her Broadway debut in 'POTUS' April 4, 2022 POTUS will be premiering at the Shubert Theatre under the direction of five-time Tony Award Winner Susan Stroman. read more Quick Links Academic Calendar⇒ Public Safety⇒ Columbia Arts Initiative⇒ Columbia University Center for Career Education⇒ Announcements⇒ Upcoming Events May 20 How to Gild an Eagle Lenfest Center for the Arts 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 (enter on 125th Street, west of Broadway) 2:30 PM Donna and Matt Walker face the impending foreclosure of their family store and inn when Lana Usman, an immigrant single mother, offers them a deal that gives them a chance to stay. How To Gild An Eagle is a play about what it takes to belong and what one must sacrifice to hang on to past legacies. read more June 2 Good Things Happen Lenfest Center for the Arts 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 (enter on 125th Street, west of Broadway) 2:30 PM A working class mother finds a bag of stolen money - more than she could ever hope to earn in her lifetime. But what does the average mom even do with that much cash? And how far will she stretch her moral compass if it means making her family’s wildest dreams come true? "Good Things Happen" is a nostalgic neo-noir chock full of blue collar crime, money laundering, VHS tapes, phonebook deliveries, manifestation, and pepperoni pizza. read more June 7 - 8 Women and the Silent Screen XI: Women, Cinema, and World Migration (Virtual) Online 12:00 AM Show-and-tells, panels, and roundtables on Asian-specific topics will stimulate discussions on parallels between the historical women who “pioneered” in national film industries and contemporary filmmakers and artists. Speakers will include Asia-based contemporary makers who are interested in historical issues and have worked in Asia and global regions. (Titles will be available to screen on Vimeo.) read more News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University