Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply School of the Arts Application and Time sheet System Please contact [email protected] if you are unable to log-in. Student Log-in Supervisor Log-in School of the Arts Student Job Application Instructions Click here for School of the Arts Application Instructions. Student Payroll Guidelines and Timesheet Instructions Payroll Calendar and Submission Deadlines Student payroll occurs every two weeks based on the annual student payroll calendar. Hourly student payroll is paid on a bi-weekly schedule. However, for those students that are teaching assistants or teaching fellows, all payments are processed on a semi-monthly schedule. The student work week runs from Monday to Sunday and timesheets must be submitted for approval every other Thursday by 12 noon except holidays. Paychecks are sent to the program office if the student has not opted for direct deposit. Click here for School of the Arts Student Timesheet Instructions. Please note that all students are expected to submit their timesheet(s) online by the deadline. This allows supervisors time to review and approve timesheets prior to their deadline. Courtesy reminder emails are sent out prior to all payroll deadlines to both students and supervisors. To make sure email reminders are delivered to your inbox, you must add [email protected] to your contacts list. Earnings Limits Students hired with a service position are compensated at an hourly rate for a maximum number of hours. Students may not work over the maximum cumulative hours allocated without prior approval from their program DAA. Hours worked are contingent upon your availability. We encourage you to plan ahead and determine your schedule with your supervisor so that you are able to schedule enough hours to work up to your maximum allocation. The position supervisor reserves the right to remove students from the service position for poor performance, excessive absences or tardiness, and/or inappropriate behavior or misconduct. Students may be hired for a casual pay position. These positions have a budgeted maximum amount. The needs of the employer determine the hours to be worked and the budget is not a guarantee of earnings. Click here for an example on how to track service position or casual pay balances. Hour Limits During the Semester(s) International students may not work more than 20 hours per week in all jobs across the University during the semesters they are enrolled as full-time students. Domestic students are limited to 20 hours per week during the semesters they are enrolled as full-time students but supervisors may request an increase in the hours if needed. This request must be submitted at least one pay period in advance to allow for review and approval. Students on appointments (Teaching Assistants and Teaching Fellows) who hold additional student service positions and/or casual pay positions are limited to 15 hours per week during the term of the appointment. The appointment counts as 5 hours per week. Hour Limits During the Summer and Semester Breaks When students are not enrolled they may work up to 40 hours per week. Direct Deposit To sign up for direct deposit, follow the Direct Deposit Instructions. NY & NJ Sick Leave Columbia University complies with the New York City Earned Safe and Sick Time Act and the New Jersey Sick Leave Law. For more information on the NYC Safe and Sick Leave Act, please see the New York City Earned Safe and Sick Time Act Policy in the Administrative Policy Library at http://policylibrary.columbia.edu/new-york-city-earned-safe-and-sick-time-act For more information on the New Jersey Sick Leave law, please see the New Jersey Earned Sick Leave Notice of Employee Rights. The full text of the law can be found on the New Jersey Department of Labor website. News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University