Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply Visual Arts + Sound Art Degrees MFA Sound Art Program Graduate Courses & Requirements Undergraduate Information Application Requirements Faculty Students Alumni Resources FAQ Thesis Exhibitions LeRoy Neiman Center for Print Studies The LeRoy Neiman Gallery News Events EXPLORE Full-time Faculty Gregory Amenoff Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Gregory Amenoff (b. 1948) is a painter who lives in New York City and Ulster County, New York. He is the recipient of numerous awards from organizations including the American Academy of Arts and Letters, National Endowment for the Arts, New York State Council on the Arts and Tiffany Foundation. full profile Matthew Buckingham Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Matthew Buckingham has presented solo exhibitions at the Brooklyn Museum, New York; Camden Arts Centre, London; Centro de Arte Reina Sofia, Madrid; Dallas Museum of Art; Hamburger Bahnhof Museum für Gegenwart, Berlin; the Kitchen, New York; Kunstmuseum, St. full profile Jace Clayton Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Jace Clayton is an artist and writer based in New York, also known for his work as DJ /rupture. full profile Susanna Coffey Visiting Professor, Visual Arts Susanna Coffey, Director of Undergrad Studies in Columbia University’s School of Visual Art has been a Visiting Professor of Painting since 2018. She recently retired as the F.H. Sellers Professor in Painting at The School of the Art Institute of Chicago. full profile Adama Delphine Fawundu Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Adama Delphine Fawundu is a visual artist born in Brooklyn, NY to parents from Sierra Leone and Equatorial Guinea, West Africa. Ms. Fawundu is a co-author/editor of the critically acclaimed book MFON: Women Photographers of the African Diaspora. full profile Jon Kessler Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Jon Kessler received a B.F.A. from SUNY at Purchase and the Whitney Museum Independent Study Program. He has exhibited his work widely in Europe, Japan, and the United States. full profile Nicola López Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Nicola López’s work in drawing, printmaking, site-specific installation, sculpture and video examines and reconfigures our contemporary, human-built landscape, engaging architecture and urban structure as ever-accumulating, physical evidence of our human aspirations and failures. full profile Miya Masaoka Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Miya Masaoka is an American composer and sound artist. Her work explores bodily perception of vibration, movement and time while foregrounding complex timbre relationships. full profile Naeem Mohaiemen Associate Professor, Visual Arts Naeem Mohaiemen combines photography, films, archives, and essays to research the many forms of utopia-dystopia (families, borders, architecture, and uprisings)– beginning from Bangladesh’s two postcolonial markers (1947, 1971) and then radiating outward to unlikely, and unstable, transnational alli full profile Shelly Silver Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Shelly Silver's work in film, video, and photography spans an eclectic range of genres, exploring the personal and societal relations that identify and restrict us; the indirect routes of pleasure and desire; the stories that we dream or fabricate about others, and ourselves. full profile Sable Elyse Smith Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Sable Elyse Smith is an interdisciplinary artist, writer, and educator based in New York. Using video, sculpture, photography, and text, she points to the carceral, the personal, the political, and the quotidian to speak about a violence that is largely unseen, and potentially imperceptible. full profile Sarah Sze Professor, Visual Arts Sarah Sze represented the US at the Venice Biennale in 2013, and was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship in 2003. She has exhibited in museums worldwide, and her works are held in the permanent collections of prominent institutions, including the MoMA, the Guggenheim, and the Whitney and more. full profile Rirkrit Tiravanija Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Thai artist Rirkrit Tiravanija is recognized as one of the most influential artists of his generation. His work defies media-based description, as his practice combines traditional object making, public and private performances, teaching, and other forms of public service and social action. full profile Tomas Vu-Daniel LeRoy Neiman Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Tomas Vu-Daniel (b. Saigon, Vietnam) received a BFA from the University of Texas and an MFA from Yale. He has been a professor at Columbia since 1996, when he helped found the LeRoy Neiman Center for Print Studies. In 2000, he was appointed the LeRoy Neiman Professor of Visual Arts. full profile Visual Arts Mentors: Spring 2022 Linda Bryant Mentor, Visual Arts I have always sought to make art that has the ability to have real life consequence. full profile Rochelle Feinstein Mentor, Visual Arts Rochelle Feinstein is a painter working across varied media, while fundamentally drawing upon the attitudes, attributes and conventions embedded in painting practices. full profile Valerie Hammond Mentor, Visual Arts Valerie Hammond maintains a fluid artistic practice, distinguishable for her organic approach and deft interaction with different mediums. full profile David Humphrey Mentor, Visual Arts David Humphrey is a New York artist who has been showing his paintings and sculpture internationally since the 1980’s. Blind Handshake, an anthology of his art writing, was published in 2010 and includes a variety of reviews, essays, and curatorial statements. full profile Michael Joo Mentor, Visual Arts Michael Joo is a New York based artist. He uses sculpture, performance and installation in his work, as well as a combination of scientific language and complex structures that exemplify and parody the potential of form. full profile Ralph Lemon Mentor, Visual Arts Ralph Lemon, is choreographer, writer, visual artist and curator, and the Artistic Director of Cross Performance, a company dedicated to the creation of cross-cultural and cross-disciplinary performance and presentation. His most recent works include Scaffold Room (2015), Four Walls (2012), and full profile Rachelle Mozman Mentor, Visual Arts Rachelle Mozman Solano grew up in New York City. She works between New York and Panama, the country of her maternal family. Starting often from her biography and family history, Mozman Solano explores how culture shapes individuals, how environment conditions behavior. full profile Matthew Ritchie Mentor, Visual Arts Matthew Ritchie’s installations of painting, wall drawings, light boxes, sculpture, and projections are investigations of the idea of information, explored through science, architecture, history and the dynamics of culture, defined equally by their range and their lyrical visual language. full profile Rona Yefman Mentor, Visual Arts Rona Yefman working in Photography, Video, and Installation. Her work explores social, political, and personal issues of identity through a range of human experiences by collaborating with individuals who have formed Radical personas that inscribe the iconic and the absurd of our time. full profile Craig Zammiello Mentor (Spring 2022), Adjunct Assistant Professor (Summer 2022), Visual Arts Craig Zammiello is a Master Printer with over 40 years of experience in all areas of printmaking. He is the author of a studio manual on photogravure, and the book Conversations from the Print Studio published by Yale University Press. full profile Visual Arts Adjuncts: Spring 2022 Yasi Alipour Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Yasi Alipour is an Iranian artist who lives in Brooklyn and wonders about paper, politics, and performance. She is also a teacher at SVA and is currently a resident at the Sharpe Walentas Studio program. full profile Henry Anker Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Henry Anker is a visionary painter whose kaleidoscopic practice incorporates American landscape traditions, symbolism, and contemporary image culture. full profile Roni Aviv Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Roni Aviv is a visual artist based in New York. Aviv works with photography, text, and installation to give form to a psychological space of re-processing experiences. Aviv holds an MFA in Visual Arts from Columbia University and studied photography at Cooper Union and Bezalel Academy of Art. full profile Pablo Barba Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Pablo Montealegre Barba was born in Santiago de Chile and lives and works in New York. His work has been exhibited at venues including The Bronx Museum of the Arts, Galería Animal, Galeria BECH and Balmaceda 1215. full profile Onyedika Chuke Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Onyedika Chuke is a New York-based American sculptor, archivist, and gallerist born in Onitsha, Nigeria. Often intrigued by international politics, his analysis of history and media are pertinent reminders of social constructs that characterize our collective memory. full profile Judy Chung Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Judy Chung (b. 1990, Seoul, South Korea) received her BFA from Pratt Institute in 2013 and her MFA from Columbia University in 2018. full profile Kevin Claiborne Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Kevin Claiborne's work examines intersections of identity, social environment, & mental health within the Black American experience. Using collage, silkscreen, photography, painting, and text, Claiborne is interested in finding new ways to look at history & its connection to the present. full profile Noga Cohen Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Noga Cohen is a multidisciplinary artist based in New York. She works in sculpture, installation, photography, and video. full profile Diana Cooper Adjunct Associate Professor, Visual Arts Diana Cooper is a contemporary artist who lives in Brooklyn, New York. She is best known for her hybrid works combining drawing, painting, sculpture, photography, and installation. Drawing has always been central to her practice. full profile Lizzy De Vita Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Lizzy De Vita is an artist, writer, and educator whose work focuses on human relationships. full profile Dana DeGiulio Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Dana DeGiulio is a professional mourner. full profile Chris Domenick Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Chris Domenick is an interdisciplinary artist working in painting, sculpture, drawing, and writing. His work explores the poetics of materiality and craft, often engaged with vernacular forms of architecture, design, and the decorative arts. full profile Tamar Ettun Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Tamar Ettun is a sculptor and a performance artist based in Brooklyn, New York. Her work explores notions of empathy and ethics through the body. full profile Baris Gokturk Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Baris Gokturk holds an MFA in sculpture from Columbia University and an MFA in painting from Hunter College where he taught for seven years. He currently teaches at Parsons School of Design and Columbia University. full profile EJ Hauser Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts EJ Hauser is an artist represented by Derek Eller Gallery in New York and Philipp Haverkampf in Berlin. Her paintings and drawings have been exhibited in numerous group exhibitions in New York and internationally. full profile Emily Henretta Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Emily Henretta received her MFA from Columbia University in 2011 and is currently living and working in New York. full profile Heidi Howard Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Heidi Howard employs portraiture to create new painted spaces. Often painted en plein air, Howard’s portraits are a record of time spent with the person, of heat, of sound and of ideas. full profile Annette Hur Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Annette Hur was born in South Korea and currently lives and works in Brooklyn. full profile Justine Kurland Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Justine Kurland, known for her utopian photographs of American landscapes and their fringe communities, has spent the better part of the last twenty years on the road. full profile Bicheng Liang Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Bicheng Liang, based in New York, investigates the human relationship to time, scale, and meaning through processed-based interactions with sites and materials. full profile Orlee Malka Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Orlee Malka (she/her) is an interdisciplinary artist living in New York. Her conceptual and collaborative work considers the possibilities of art making within forms of collapse. In fieldwork to the unconsoled (2018) Malka examines issues of excavation practices and museum restitution. full profile Edward Minoff Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Edward Minoff is a contemporary representational artist. He teaches at the Grand Central Atelier, Columbia University, the Hudson River Fellowship and leads workshops online and across the country. full profile Farah Mohammad Adjunct Associate Professor, Visual Arts Farah Mohammad is a Pakistani printmaker and installation artist based in New York City. full profile Jennifer Nuss Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Lives and works in Harlem. Finalist for the New York Foundation for the Arts Grant in Film in 2015. Recipient of the Guggenheim Fellowship, Joan Mitchell Award and NYFA for drawing. Recipient of the Marie Walsh Sharpe Foundation for the Arts residency. full profile Samantha Nye Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Samantha Nye is a painter, video, and installation artist living in Philadelphia. She is currently preparing for a solo show at the Candice Madey Gallery in New York City and a video installation project in Utrecht. full profile JJ PEET Part-time Lecturer, Visual Arts Through a focus on formalism and the craft of object making, JJ builds work that tells a story specific to its respective medium and its implicit hierarchy. full profile Tyler Rowland Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Tyler Rowland (b. 1978 Reno, NV) was raised in Phoenix, AZ and lives and works in New York City. He received his BA from Vassar College and his MFA from California Institute of the Arts. full profile Kiki Smith Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Kiki Smith (American, b. 1954, Nuremberg, Germany) has been known since the 1980s for her multidisciplinary practice relating to the human body and the natural world. full profile Pamela Sneed Adjunct Associate Professor, Visual Arts Pamela Sneed is a New York-based poet, writer, performer and visual artist. She is author of Imagine Being More Afraid of Freedom than Slavery, KONG and Other Works and a chaplet, Gift by Belladonna. full profile Patrice Renee Washington Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Patrice Renee Washington earned her BFA from Metropolitan State University, Denver, CO and her MFA from Columbia University, NY. full profile Tommy White Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Tommy White is the recipient of a Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship, a Howard Foundation Fellowship, a New York Foundation for the Arts Fellowship, and a Robert Rauschenberg Foundation Award. full profile News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University