Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Individual Differences Lab Individual Differences Lab Psychology Lab at The University of Tulsa Phone 918-631-3982 Email maa9358@utulsa.edu Location 112 Lorton Hall Map INDIVIDUAL DIFFERENCES LAB Current Studies Publications Lab Team Lab Alumni The Individual Differences Lab is a branch of the Institute for Biochemical and Psychological Study of Individual Differences (IBPID) at the University of Tulsa. Our lab focuses broadly on measurement and application of individual differences, such as our research on the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2-Restructured Form (MMPI-2-RF). Specifically, lab advisors, Drs. Allan Harkness and John McNulty have created a five-factor personality model (known as the Personality Psychopathology Five; PSY-5) using the MMPI-2-RF. More recent projects have focused on applying individual differences science to adaptive psychological systems (see Harkness, Reynolds, and Lilienfeld, 2014). Our current focus has been interdisciplinary collaboration on a project using multiple personality measures collected over multiple days to create richly assessed individuals. These assessments are then provided as a phenotype to other departments to help elucidate the genetics of individual differences. In collaboration with other labs in IBPID, we recently applied for an R-21 grant from the National Institute of Mental Health to helps us fund our research on high precision measurement of psychoticism and its underlying genetics. If you are interested in becoming a member of our lab, please email our lab manager, Margie Achee, at maa9358@utulsa.edu for more information. Lab Advisor Dr. Allan Harkness speaking about the Review of Systems approach at the University of Tulsa TEDx event in 2015. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT