Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply Professor David Henry Hwang Honored with Playwrights’ Sidewalk Star BY William Hutton, May 10, 2022 Playwriting Concentration Head and Associate Professor David Henry Hwang has been named this year’s Playwrights’ Sidewalk Inductee as part of the Annual Lucille Lortel Awards for Outstanding Achievement Off-Broadway. Hwang’s name will be added to a star on the sidewalk outside the Lucille Lortel Theatre on Christopher Street, in downtown Manhattan––a permanent monument to Off-Broadway playwrights. The news follows a string of recent accomplishments for Hwang, whose stage works include the plays M. Butterfly, Yellow Face, and Soft Power. He is set to lead the screenplay for a new Anna May Wong biopic, starring Gemma Chan; and his new opera, The Rift, is set to premiere as part of the Washington National Opera’s Written in Stone program for the Kennedy Center’s 50th anniversary celebration. David was featured last year in our series, This is Who We Are, where he spoke with Writing Fellow, Amanda Breen, about his writing projects and the power of authenticity in art. David Henry Hwang is a playwright, screenwriter, television writer, and librettist whose stage works include the plays M. Butterfly, Chinglish, Yellow Face, Kung Fu, Golden Child, The Dance and the Railroad, and FOB, as well as the Broadway musicals Elton John & Tim Rice’s Aida (co-author), Flower Drum Song (2002 revival) and Disney’s Tarzan. Hwang made history in 1988 as the first Asian American playwright to win a Tony Award. Since then, he has been nominated for three other Tony awards. He is a three-time OBIE Award winner, a Grammy winner and two-time nominee, and a three-time Finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in Drama. Opera News called him America’s most-produced living opera librettist, and he co-wrote the Gold Record Solo with the late pop star Prince. From 2015-2019, Hwang was a Writer/Consulting Producer for the Golden Globe-winning television series The Affair. His screenplays include Possession, M. Butterfly, and Golden Gate. He is currently penning the live-action musical feature adaptation of Disney’s The Hunchback of Notre Dame. Categories Faculty Playwriting Theatre award News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University