Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > School of Music > Music Camps & Workshops Music Camps & Workshops https://youtu.be/9fGiCKe176o MUSIC Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Us TU music camps and workshops provide an opportunity for hundreds of young musicians from across the region to experience the distinguished level of instruction offered at the TU School of Music. Programs range from helping vocalists prepare classical solos to composition seminars on orchestration. Most programs are tailored for high school students, but a few include middle school age attendees. Our summer programs create a positive educational and social environment that allows students to learn from some of the finest music educators from across the state in world-class facilities. Band Camp - June 6-17 The TU Summer Band Camp will focus primarily on large concert band repertoire and performance. In addition to the full concert band, the band will be divided into chamber groups by instrument or instrumental family depending on available camp instrumentation (woodwind ensemble, brass ensemble, flute choir, clarinet choir, trumpet choir, percussion ensemble, etc.). This annual two-week day band camp is open to students entering 9th grade through graduated seniors in high school. Learn more. Chamber Music Camp - June 6-10 TU Summer Chamber Music Camp is open to intermediate and advanced string students currently enrolled in middle and high school. In addition to individual and chamber group lessons, students will participate in presentations, workshops and electives. Learn more. Jazz Camp - July 10-16 TU Jazz camp is a week-long day camp open to all music students (instrumental and vocal), ninth grade through college, with all levels of skills and experience. The educational focus of the camp will be based on a curriculum encompassing jazz theory and ear training, jazz improvisation, jazz history, jazz performance (big band, combo, guitar ensemble, vocal) and group lessons and master classes. Learn more. Vocal & Choral Camp - July 25-29 The TU Vocal and Choral Camp is a five-day summer camp for high school-aged singers who love vocal and choral music. TU vocal faculty along with guest artists will guide students in the preparation of classical solos appropriate for auditions and contests in daily private lessons and masterclasses. The choral portion will feature literature specially selected for the camp and will include preparation of the All-State High School Mixed Choir audition repertoire for the coming year. Learn more. Composition Seminar -TBD The TU Composition Seminar is a five-day camp open to beginner, intermediate and advanced composition and music students currently enrolled in middle and high school. This immersive program includes private and group lessons, seminars, recitals and workshops. Composition lessons occur in both private and group settings, with students working and learning from faculty, as well as from each other. Seminars will include topics like score and parts presentation, succeeding as a composer, orchestration, counterpoint/harmony/texture, 20th/21st century and contemporary repertoire and other topics. Learn more. Academy for Pianists - June 6-10 has been CANCELLED TU Academy for Pianists is open to intermediate to advanced level piano students, grades 9-12. Students will work with TU piano faculty and attend seminars, workshops and presentations designed to equip pianists with the necessary skills for a career in music, or to simply enrich their lives through music performance and informed listening. Learn more. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT