Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply Resources Health and Medical Resources Housing and Dining EXPLORE Campus Transportation Columbia Transportation provides travel options and information so the Columbia community can make safe, efficient, and timely trips to, from, and between Columbia's campuses. More Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action As an institution, Columbia University is committed to the principles of equity and excellence. It actively pursues both, adhering to the belief that equity is the partner of excellence. Columbia University's goal is a workforce and student body that reflects the diversity and talent of New York City, the larger metropolitan area, and the nation. More Health Services Columbia Health has a number of resources available to support you. As a member of the Columbia community, this is a reminder that your mental and physical health are important. It's also a reminder that together, we need to support each other. More Housing University Apartment Housing (UAH) is a division of Columbia University Facilities that manages residential units primarily in the immediate vicinity of the Morningside Heights campus, as well as in Manhattan Valley and Riverdale, the Bronx. More International Students & Scholars Office (ISSO) We are the international community’s resource for immigration-related needs, providing advisory and documentation services and information on a host of issues, including— but not limited to—visas, employment, travel, and tax-filing obligations. More Public Safety The Mission of the Columbia University Department of Public Safety is to enhance the quality of life for the Columbia community by maintaining a secure and open environment where the safety of all is balanced with the rights of the individual. The Department strives to accomplish its mission while adhering to its core values of Pride, Professionalism, and Service. More Student Financial Services Student Financial Services partners with University Schools to support the removal of financial barriers that might stand in your way, so you can be free to pursue your academic endeavors. More COVID-19 Grants and Resources Please click here for a list of resources as well as information on how the ARC can help School of the Arts students and alumni. Quick Links Campus Transportation⇒ Computer Discounts⇒ Computing Support⇒ Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS)⇒ Courseworks⇒ Dining Services⇒ Directory of Classes⇒ International SOS (Travel Services)⇒ Maps⇒ Office of Disability Services (ODS)⇒ Office of the University Chaplain at Earl Hall⇒ Office of University Life⇒ Ombuds Office⇒ Public Safety Annual Security Report⇒ Sexual Respect Initiative⇒ Student Organizations (University-Wide)⇒ Student Service Center⇒ Student Services Online⇒ Tuition & Fees⇒ University Registrar⇒ We're here to help. Can't find a resource on this page? Email [email protected] News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University