0 Skip to Content Home Artists Yasi Alipour David Altmejd Gregory Amenoff Ghada Amer & Reza Farkhondeh Polly Apfelbaum Korakrit Arunanondchai Fia Backström Sanford Biggers Jennifer Bornstein Cecily Brown Phong Bui Klaus Bürgel Ernesto Caivano William Cordova William Cordova and Lee Quiñones Ann Craven Mark Dion Rochelle Feinstein Eric Fischl Jonathan Safran Foer Fab Five Freddy Lee Friedlander Carl Fudge Barnaby Furnas Ellen Gallagher Tim Gardner Dylan Graham Elliot Green Valerie Hammond Trenton Doyle Hancock Dana Hoey Yun-Fei Ji Alfredo Jaar Jasper Johns Michael Joo Brad Kahlhamer William Kentridge Dr. Lakra Dinh Q. Lê Leigh Ledare Nicola López Edward Mapplethorpe Jonas Mekas Ohad Meromi Sam Messer Sam Messer and Jonathan Safran Foer Kayla Mohammadi LeRoy Neiman Shirin Neshat Lee Quiñones Alexis Rockman Thomas Roma Dana Schutz David Shapiro Arlene Shechet Dasha Shishkin Shahzia Sikander Kiki Smith Sarah Sze Rirkrit Tiravanija Tomas Vu John Walker Kara Walker Heimo Wallner Paula Wilson Terry Winters Su Xinping Craig Zammiello Fellows Current Neiman Fellows Past Neiman Fellows About History Collections Visit LeRoy Neiman Gallery News Exhibitions Artist Interviews Alumni Interviews Publications Press Open Menu Close Menu Home Artists Yasi Alipour David Altmejd Gregory Amenoff Ghada Amer & Reza Farkhondeh Polly Apfelbaum Korakrit Arunanondchai Fia Backström Sanford Biggers Jennifer Bornstein Cecily Brown Phong Bui Klaus Bürgel Ernesto Caivano William Cordova William Cordova and Lee Quiñones Ann Craven Mark Dion Rochelle Feinstein Eric Fischl Jonathan Safran Foer Fab Five Freddy Lee Friedlander Carl Fudge Barnaby Furnas Ellen Gallagher Tim Gardner Dylan Graham Elliot Green Valerie Hammond Trenton Doyle Hancock Dana Hoey Yun-Fei Ji Alfredo Jaar Jasper Johns Michael Joo Brad Kahlhamer William Kentridge Dr. Lakra Dinh Q. Lê Leigh Ledare Nicola López Edward Mapplethorpe Jonas Mekas Ohad Meromi Sam Messer Sam Messer and Jonathan Safran Foer Kayla Mohammadi LeRoy Neiman Shirin Neshat Lee Quiñones Alexis Rockman Thomas Roma Dana Schutz David Shapiro Arlene Shechet Dasha Shishkin Shahzia Sikander Kiki Smith Sarah Sze Rirkrit Tiravanija Tomas Vu John Walker Kara Walker Heimo Wallner Paula Wilson Terry Winters Su Xinping Craig Zammiello Fellows Current Neiman Fellows Past Neiman Fellows About History Collections Visit LeRoy Neiman Gallery News Exhibitions Artist Interviews Alumni Interviews Publications Press Open Menu Close Menu Home Folder: Artists Back Yasi Alipour David Altmejd Gregory Amenoff Ghada Amer & Reza Farkhondeh Polly Apfelbaum Korakrit Arunanondchai Fia Backström Sanford Biggers Jennifer Bornstein Cecily Brown Phong Bui Klaus Bürgel Ernesto Caivano William Cordova William Cordova and Lee Quiñones Ann Craven Mark Dion Rochelle Feinstein Eric Fischl Jonathan Safran Foer Fab Five Freddy Lee Friedlander Carl Fudge Barnaby Furnas Ellen Gallagher Tim Gardner Dylan Graham Elliot Green Valerie Hammond Trenton Doyle Hancock Dana Hoey Yun-Fei Ji Alfredo Jaar Jasper Johns Michael Joo Brad Kahlhamer William Kentridge Dr. Lakra Dinh Q. Lê Leigh Ledare Nicola López Edward Mapplethorpe Jonas Mekas Ohad Meromi Sam Messer Sam Messer and Jonathan Safran Foer Kayla Mohammadi LeRoy Neiman Shirin Neshat Lee Quiñones Alexis Rockman Thomas Roma Dana Schutz David Shapiro Arlene Shechet Dasha Shishkin Shahzia Sikander Kiki Smith Sarah Sze Rirkrit Tiravanija Tomas Vu John Walker Kara Walker Heimo Wallner Paula Wilson Terry Winters Su Xinping Craig Zammiello Folder: Fellows Back Current Neiman Fellows Past Neiman Fellows Folder: About Back History Collections Visit LeRoy Neiman Gallery Folder: News Back Exhibitions Artist Interviews Alumni Interviews Publications Press Alchemical Reaction: The Making of Michael Joo's 7 Sins A conceptual artist whose work has taken various forms including sculpture, photography, painting, performance and installation, Michael Joo collaborated with Master Printer, Nathan Catlin, and students at the Neiman Center in 2016 to realize, 7 Sins, a groundbreaking series of silvered screenprints. Joo’s experimental approach to making work aligned precisely with the Center’s mission to provide visiting artists with the technical and creative support they need to investigate and push the boundaries of traditional printmaking. Workstation with students This ambitious project required the Neiman staff to expand beyond their printshop’s walls and into Joo’s large Red Hook studio. To produce an edition of silvered screenprints – rather than a singular drawing – required both artist and printer to think outside the box. Each print in the edition of eight was made by screenprinting an epoxy resin onto paper and then applying a mix of silvering chemicals to each sheet with a hand-held mister. The silvering chemicals attached to the epoxy on the paper to create a unique metallic surface on each print depending on the way the mist was applied and adhered to the epoxy. The process required Catlin and his team of MFA students to build out a series of self-contained yet temporary work spaces in Joo’s studio so that multiple sheets of paper could be worked on at the same time without the moisture and mist from one interfering with the other. Each work station was rather low tech: made from foam core, it contained a wall on which to hang the print and a tray of kitty litter at the bottom of the wall to collect and absorb the chemical residue. The toxic nature of the process required all those involved in the editioning of the prints to wear respirators and protective clothing. Spraying the silvering chemicals I had too many ideas in mind… But through thoughtful discussion, demonstrations, and experimentation, was able to work closely with the Artistic Director, Tomas Vu, and Master Printer, Nathan Catlin, to merge some of the material and process exploration already going on in my studio with the expertise, sensitivity and talent they brought to the table. I was blown away that he was also game for my suggestion that we stage one part of the process in making my 7 Sins edition of prints outside of the Center and in my own studio working together. - Michael Joo Print, just after being sprayed with silvering chemicals Michael Joo, suiting up to work on edition The child of scientists, Joo has utilized scientific inquiry as a central component of his artistic practice and as a basis for creating new work. He pursues the “potential and possibilities” of scientific inquiry rather than hard and fast empirical conclusions, leaving the door open for the alchemical or chance effects of art to take hold. Workstations Workstation with kitty litter The individual titles of the prints in this series, much like the process itself, reflect Joo’s interest in the transformation of matter or material from one form to another. The calorie count is meant to signify the amount of energy used per millisecond to perform a specific action or task. Joo began investigating calories, specifically, and the transmutation of energy, more generally, in works produced about a year before he made 7 Sins at the Neiman Center. 0.0316602 CALORIES, from 7 Sins, 2016 Silvered screenprint 45-1/2 x 35 inches Edition: 8, variable 0.0342333 CALORIES, from 7 Sins, 2016 Silvered screenprint 45-1/2 x 35 inches Edition: 8, variable 0.0353213 CALORIES, from 7 Sins, 2016 Silvered screenprint 45-1/2 x 35 inches Edition: 8, variable 0.0605655 CALORIES, from 7 Sins, 2016 Silvered screenprint 45-1/2 x 35 inches Edition: 8, variable 0.0632007 CALORIES, from 7 Sins, 2016 Silvered screenprint 45-1/2 x 35 inches Edition: 8, variable 0.1790696 CALORIES, from 7 Sins, 2016 Silvered screenprint 45-1/2 x 35 inches Edition: 8, variable 0.1988933 CALORIES, from 7 Sins, 2016 Silvered screenprint 45-1/2 x 35 inches Edition: 8, variable For more information or to inquire about purchasing please email us. Sign up to receive news and updates. Email Address Sign Up Thank you! About | Purchase | Visit