Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply Full-time Faculty This is Who We Are This Is Who We Are is a series featuring Columbia School of the Arts’ professors, covering careers, pedagogy, and art-making during a pandemic. more Hilton Als Associate Professor, Writing Recipient of the 2017 Pulitzer Prize for Criticism, Hilton Als became a staff writer at The New Yorker in October 1994, and a theatre critic in 2002. His books, The Women and White Girls, discuss various narratives around race, gender, and personal identity. full profile Gregory Amenoff Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Gregory Amenoff (b. 1948) is a painter who lives in New York City and Ulster County, New York. He is the recipient of numerous awards from organizations including the American Academy of Arts and Letters, National Endowment for the Arts, New York State Council on the Arts and Tiffany Foundation. full profile Bogdan Apetri Assistant Professor of Professional Practice, Film A former lawyer in his native Romania, Bogdan George Apetri is an European director and producer based in New York. His directing and producing work screened and won awards at Cannes, Venice, Locarno, Sundance & Toronto. full profile Ramin Bahrani Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Film Ramin Bahrani is an Academy Award® nominated Iranian-American filmmaker. His cinematic oeuvre is housed in the permanent collection at the Museum of Modern Art in NYC. Roger Ebert proclaimed Bahrani as “the director of the decade” in 2010. full profile Diksha Basu Assistant Professor, Writing Originally from New Delhi, India, Diksha Basu is the internationally best-selling author of The Windfall (a People Magazine pick, NYTimes Editor's Pick, Time Magazine Pick, Target Diverse Book Club pick, and more) and Destination Wedding (shortlisted for the Bollinger Everyman Wo full profile Nico Baumbach Associate Professor, Film and Media Studies Nico Baumbach holds a Ph.D. in Literature from Duke University. His research and teaching focus on critical theory, film theory, documentary, and the intersection of aesthetic and political philosophy. full profile Paul Beatty Associate Professor, Writing Among Paul Beatty's novels, Slumberland, Tuff, The White Boy Shuffle, The Sellout won the 2015 National Book Critics Circle Award and the 2016 Man Booker Prize. It was named one of the best books of 2015 by the Times and the Wall Street Journal. full profile Susan Bernofsky LTAC Director, Associate Professor, Writing Susan Bernofsky’s much-lauded translations include works by Swiss-German modernist author Robert Walser as well as Jenny Erpenbeck, Yoko Tawada, Hermann Hesse, Franz Kafka, and others. full profile Andy Bienen Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Film Andy Bienen received a BA from New York University, an MA from the University of Virginia, and an MFA in Film from Columbia University School of the Arts. He cowrote Boys Don't Cry with Kimberly Peirce '96, director of the film. full profile Anne Bogart Professor, Theatre Co-Artistic Director of SITI Company, which she founded with Japanese director Tadashi Suzuki in 1992. She is the recipient of three Honorary Doctorates from Skidmore College, Bard College and Cornish College. She was a recipient of a Doris Duke Performing Artist Award, the Richard B. full profile Hilary Brougher Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Film Hilary Brougher, a member of of the MFA Film Program in Directing, is a screenwriter and director whose films include South Mountain 2019, Stephanie Daley 2007 and The Sticky Fingers of Time 1997. full profile Matthew Buckingham Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Matthew Buckingham has presented solo exhibitions at the Brooklyn Museum, New York; Camden Arts Centre, London; Centro de Arte Reina Sofia, Madrid; Dallas Museum of Art; Hamburger Bahnhof Museum für Gegenwart, Berlin; the Kitchen, New York; Kunstmuseum, St. full profile James Calleri Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Theatre James Calleri is an Associate Professor of Professional Practice and Co-Head of the Acting concentration. He is a well-known casting director and co-owner in Calleri Jensen Davis, where he and partners Paul Davis and Erica Jensen cast theater, television and film. full profile Steven Chaikelson Professor of Professional Practice, Concentration Head, Theatre Management & Producing, Theatre Steven runs the MFA Theatre Management & Producing Program. Through his company, Snug Harbor Productions, he produces and manages shows on and off Broadway, around the USA and internationally. full profile Anelise Chen Assistant Professor, Writing Anelise Chen is the author of So Many Olympic Exertions (Kaya Press 2017), a finalist for the VCU Cabell First Novelist Award. Her work has appeared in The New York Times, NPR, BOMB, The New Republic, VICE, the Village Voice, and others. full profile Nicholas Christopher Professor of Professional Practice, Writing Nicholas Christopher has published six novels and nine poetry collections. Widely translated, he's received many awards, from the Guggenheim Foundation, the Academy of American Poets, and others. His newest novel is Maps of the Underworld. full profile Jace Clayton Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Jace Clayton is an artist and writer based in New York, also known for his work as DJ /rupture. full profile Susanna Coffey Visiting Professor, Visual Arts Susanna Coffey, Director of Undergrad Studies in Columbia University’s School of Visual Art has been a Visiting Professor of Painting since 2018. She recently retired as the F.H. Sellers Professor in Painting at The School of the Art Institute of Chicago. full profile Ira Deutchman Professor of Professional Practice, Film Ira Deutchman is an independent film producer, marketer and distributor. He was a founder of Cinecom and later created Fine Line Features—two companies that helped define the independent film business. He was co-founder of Emerging Pictures, the first digital projection network in the US. full profile Katherine Dieckmann Professor of Professional Practice, Film Writer-director Katherine Dieckmann’s most recent feature film, Strange Weather, starring Holly Hunter and Carrie Coon, premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival and opened theatrically in 2017. full profile Timothy Donnelly Professor, Writing Timothy Donnelly is the author of Eine Lebenszeit, The Cloud Corporation, winner of the 2012 Kingsley Tufts Poetry Prize, and others. His poems have appeared in Harper’s, The Nation, The New Republic, The New Yorker, The Paris Review, Poetry, and elsewhere. full profile Trey Ellis Professor of Professional Practice, Film Professor Trey Ellis is an Emmy Award winning screenwriter, an American Book Award Winning novelist, and playwright. He has written screenplays for, among others, Columbia Pictures, Touchstone Pictures, HBO and Showtime. full profile Adama Delphine Fawundu Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Adama Delphine Fawundu is a visual artist born in Brooklyn, NY to parents from Sierra Leone and Equatorial Guinea, West Africa. Ms. Fawundu is a co-author/editor of the critically acclaimed book MFON: Women Photographers of the African Diaspora. full profile Peter Jay Fernandez Assistant Professor, Theatre Peter Jay Fernandez taught in the graduate theatre program in the College of Performing Arts at The New School from 2011–2019, where he served as co-head of Acting from 2017-2019. full profile Richard Ford Professor, Writing Richard Ford’s novel Independence Day (1995) was the first to receive both the PEN/Faulkner Award and the Pulitzer Prize. He has published numerous novels and fiction collections. He received the Rea Award in 1995 for his outstanding contribution to the Short Story form. full profile Jane M. Gaines Professor, Film and Media Studies Jane M. Gaines is Professor of Film, Columbia University, and Professor Emerita of Literature and English, Duke University who in 2018 received the Society for Cinema and Media Studies Distinguished Career Award and in 2021 was awarded an Honorary Doctorate from the University of Stockholm, Sweden. full profile Rivka Galchen Assistant Professor, Writing Rivka Galchen's work appears often in The New Yorker, Harper’s, The London Review of Books and The New York Times. She is the author of three books and has received numerous prizes and fellowships, including a Guggenheim Fellowship, The William J Saroyan International Prize and more. full profile Racquel Gates Associate Professor, Film and Media Studies Racquel Gates is the author of Double Negative: The Black image and Popular Culture. Her research focuses on Black film and media, reality television, and popular culture more broadly. full profile Bette Gordon Professor of Professional Practice, Film A pioneer in American Independent Cinema, Bette Gordon is known for her bold explorations of themes related to sexuality, violence and power. full profile Ron Gregg Senior Lecturer in Discipline , Film and Media Studies Ron Gregg writes and teaches about queer cinema (both Hollywood and experimental), classical and contemporary Hollywood, and the impact of globalization and digital technology on recent Hollywood film. full profile Lis Harris Professor of Professional Practice, Writing Lis Harris was a staff writer at The New Yorker from 1970 to 1995. She is the author of several books. Her latest book is In Jerusalem: Three Generations of an Israeli Family and a Palestinian Family (2019). full profile Liz Hayes Assistant Professor of Professional Practice, Theatre Liz Hayes is an actor, teaching artist and voice, dialect and text coach for theatre, film and television. full profile David Henry Hwang Associate Professor, Theatre David Henry Hwang is a playwright, screenwriter, TV writer, and librettist, a Tony Award winner and 3-time nominee, a 3-time OBIE winner, a Grammy winner, and a 3-time Finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in Drama. full profile Annette Insdorf Professor, Film and Media Studies Annette Insdorf is the author of Cinematic Overtures: How to Read Opening Scenes; Intimations: The Cinema of Wojciech Has; Double Lives, Second Chances: The Cinema of Krzysztof Kieslowski; Francois Truffaut; Philip Kaufman, and the landmark study, Indelible Shadows: Fil full profile Leslie Jamison Associate Professor, Writing Leslie Jamison is the bestselling author of two essay collections —The Empathy Exams and Make It Scream, Make It Burn—as well as a critical memoir, The Recovering: Intoxication and Its Aftermath, and a novel, The Gin Closet. She is a contributing writer at The New York Times Magazine. full profile Margo Jefferson Professor of Professional Practice , Writing Margo Jefferson is a Pulitzer Prize-winning cultural critic. She has been a staff writer for The New York Times and Newsweek; her essays have appeared in New York Magazine, Vogue, Harper’s and others. Margo's recent memoir, Negroland, received the 2016 National Book Critics Circle Award. full profile Jamal Joseph Professor of Professional Practice , Film Jamal Joseph has written and directed for Black Starz, HBO, Fox TV, New Line Cinema, Warner Bros., and A&E. His produced screenplays include Ali: An American Hero (Fox), New York Undercover (Fox), Knights of the South Bronx (A&E), and The Many Trials of Tammy B. (Nickelodeon). full profile Heidi Julavits Associate Professor, Writing Heidi Julavits is the author of four novels, most recently, of the New York Times Notable book, The Folded Clock: A Diary. With Sheila Heti and Leanne Shapton, she edited the bestselling Women in Clothes. She’s a recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship and a founding editor of The Believer magazine. full profile Tom Kalin Professor of Professional Practice , Film Kalin’s Swoon won prizes at Sundance, Berlin, Stockholm & the Gotham Awards. Savage Grace premiered in Cannes, opened Zurich and screened internationally. He produced I Shot Andy Warhol and Go Fish. He directed the first episode of Pride for FX, which airs 2021. full profile Jon Kessler Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Jon Kessler received a B.F.A. from SUNY at Purchase and the Whitney Museum Independent Study Program. He has exhibited his work widely in Europe, Japan, and the United States. full profile Rob King Professor, Film and Media Studies Rob King is a film historian with interests in American genre cinema, popular culture, and social history. Much of his work has been on comedy. full profile Binnie Kirshenbaum Professor of Professional Practice, Writing Binnie Kirshenbaum is the author of History on a Personal Note and six novels. Her novels have been chosen as Notable Books by The Chicago Tribune, Time, SF Chronicle and others; she twice won Critics Choice Awards and was selected by Granta as one of the Best Young American novelists. full profile David Klass Assistant Professor of Professional Practice, Film David Klass has written feature screenplays for all the major studios, including: Kiss the Girls starring Morgan Freeman, Desperate Measures starring Michael Keaton, Walking Tall starring The Rock, and most recently Emperor starring Tommy Lee Jones. full profile Brian Kulick Professor of Professional Practice , Theatre Brian Kulick is a director, writer, educator, producer, and current Chair of the Graduate Theatre Program at Columbia University. He has been the Artistic Director of Classic Stage Company and an Associate Producer for The Public Theatre. full profile Dorothea Lasky Associate Professor, Writing Lasky is the author of six books of poetry and several chapbooks. Her poems have appeared in The Paris Review, The New Yorker, Boston Review, and others. She is the co-editor of Open the Door: How to Excite Young People About Poetry and is a Bagley Wright Lecturer on Poetry. full profile Victor LaValle Associate Professor, Writing Victor LaValle is the author of seven works of fiction and one comic book series. His work has been published in The New Yorker, Granta, The Paris Review and many others. His awards include a Guggenheim Fellowship, a Whiting Writers Award and the Key to Southeast Queens. full profile Christina Lazaridi Assistant Professor of Professional Practice, Film Christina Lazaridi is an Academy Award nominated screenwriter and an expert in dynamic story design and audience response. Projects she has authored, or actively developed, have won awards at Cannes and Berlin, Oberhousen, Serajevo, Sundance, SXSW, the Ariels, and more. full profile Jack Lechner Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Film Jack Lechner’s producing credits include The New Yorker Presents, Blue Valentine, and The Fog Of War. As an executive, he was involved in movies like The Crying Game, Good Will Hunting, and The Full Monty. full profile Sam Lipsyte Associate Professor, Writing Sam Lipsyte is the author of five books. His fiction has appeared in The New Yorker, The Paris Review and Best American Short Stories. He is a Guggenheim Fellow and winner of the Believer Book Award. His newest novel is Hark. full profile Richard Locke Professor of Professional Practice, Writing Richard Locke is a critic and essayist. More than 200 of his pieces have appeared in The New York Times, American Scholar, Threepenny Review, BookForum, and others. He was a senior editor at Simon & Schuster, deputy editor of The New York Times Book Review, and editor in chief of Vanity Fair. full profile Phillip Lopate Professor of Professional Practice, Writing Phillip Lopate has written personal essay collections, novels, novellas, poetry collections, memoir, movie criticism, an urbanist meditation, a critical study, and a biographical monograph. He has been awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship, National Endowment for the Arts grants, and others. full profile Nicola López Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Nicola López’s work in drawing, printmaking, site-specific installation, sculpture and video examines and reconfigures our contemporary, human-built landscape, engaging architecture and urban structure as ever-accumulating, physical evidence of our human aspirations and failures. full profile Mynette Louie Assistant Professor of Professional Practice, Film Mynette Louie is an Emmy-nominated, Spirit Award-winning producer. Credits include I Carry You With Me, Swallow, The Tale, The Invitation, and Land Ho! She was named one of Business Insider’s “12 Movie Producers at the Top of Their Game to Watch in 2020 & Beyond.” full profile Sita Mani Lecturer, Theatre Sita Mani is a physical theater artist who performs and creates original work. She is a founding faculty member of The Studio New York and is currently on faculty at Columbia University School Of The Arts. full profile Ben Marcus Professor, Writing Ben Marcus is the author of five books, including The Flame Alphabet and The Age of Wire and String. His writing has appeared in Harper's, The New Yorker, The Paris Review, and elsewhere. Among his honors are a Whiting Writers Award, the Berlin Prize, and a Guggenheim Fellowship. full profile Miya Masaoka Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Miya Masaoka is an American composer and sound artist. Her work explores bodily perception of vibration, movement and time while foregrounding complex timbre relationships. full profile Shane McCrae Associate Professor, Writing Shane McCrae is the author of five books, three poetry chapbooks, and one nonfiction chapbook. His poems have appeared in the Best American Poetry series, Poetry, The American Poetry Review, and others. Among other awards, has received a Whiting Writer’s Award and a Pushcart Prize. full profile Eric Mendelsohn Professor of Professional Practice, Film Eric Mendelsohn's feature debut, Judy Berlin, starring The Sopranos' Edie Falco was an Official Selection of the Cannes Film Festival (Un Certain Regard), won Best Director at Sundance, Best Independent Film at the Hamptons Film Festival and was nominated for three Independent Spirit Awards. full profile Naeem Mohaiemen Associate Professor, Visual Arts Naeem Mohaiemen combines photography, films, archives, and essays to research the many forms of utopia-dystopia (families, borders, architecture, and uprisings)– beginning from Bangladesh’s two postcolonial markers (1947, 1971) and then radiating outward to unlikely, and unstable, transnational alli full profile Lynn Nottage Associate Professor, Theatre Lynn Nottage is a two time Pulitzer Prize winning playwright and a screenwriter. Her plays have been produced widely in the United States and throughout the world. full profile Ian Olds Assistant Professor, Film Ian Olds was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship for his work as a director of both documentary and narrative films. full profile Orhan Pamuk Professor, Writing Orhan Pamuk is one of the most prominent novelists today. His work has been translated into over 60 languages and he has received numerous awards, including Dublin Impac Award, the Prix Medicis, Peace Prize of German Book Trade, and others. In 2006, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature. full profile Deborah Paredez Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Writing Deborah Paredez is the author of two poetry volumes and a book of critical prose. Her work has appeared in The New York Times, Los Angeles Review of Books, The Boston Review, and others. She is the co-founder of CantoMundo, a national organization dedicated to Latina/o poets and poetry. full profile Christian Parker Professor of Professional Practice, Theatre Christian Parker is a director, dramaturg, and former Chair of the graduate Theatre Program (2012-19) at Columbia University, where he also heads the Dramaturgy concentration. full profile Michael J. Passaro Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Theatre Michael Passaro is a stage manager with over thirty years’ experience in the professional theater – on Broadway, regionally, and worldwide. full profile Richard Peña Professor of Professional Practice, Film and Media Studies Richard Peña has been at Columbia since 1989, becoming full time in 1996 and being named Professor of Professional Practice in 2003. full profile Maureen A. Ryan Professor of Professional Practice, Film Maureen A. Ryan is a producer based in concentrating on narrative and documentary feature films. She is co-producer of James Marsh’s Academy Award-winning documentary Man on Wire and the author of Producer to Producer: A Step-by-Step Guide to Low Budget, Independent Film Producing. full profile James Schamus Professor of Professional Practice, Film and Media Studies James Schamus is an award-winning screenwriter (The Ice Storm), producer (Brokeback Mountain), director (Indignation), and former CEO of Focus Features. Recent credits include The Assistant, Driveways, Adam, and the limited series Somos. full profile Gary Shteyngart Associate Professor, Writing Gary Shteyngart is the author five books, including the acclaimed memoir, Little Failure. His work has been translated into 26 languages and has appeared in numerous publications. He has received the Bollinger Everyman Wodehouse Prize, the National Jewish Book Award for Fiction, and more. full profile Shelly Silver Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Shelly Silver's work in film, video, and photography spans an eclectic range of genres, exploring the personal and societal relations that identify and restrict us; the indirect routes of pleasure and desire; the stories that we dream or fabricate about others, and ourselves. full profile Blair Singer Assistant Professor of Professional Practice, Theatre Blair Singer is an Emmy-nominated New York-based television writer and playwright. Most recently, he served as the Co-Executive Producer on the upcoming Fox show, Filthy Rich, starring Kim Cattrall. full profile Sable Elyse Smith Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Sable Elyse Smith is an interdisciplinary artist, writer, and educator based in New York. Using video, sculpture, photography, and text, she points to the carceral, the personal, the political, and the quotidian to speak about a violence that is largely unseen, and potentially imperceptible. full profile June Stein Senior Lecturer, Film Sex Guaranteed by writer/director Brad Barnes, Romance & Cigarettes and Illuminata by writer/director John Turturro, and Luminous Motion, Handsome Harry, and Border Crossing directed by Bette Gordon are among June Stein’s most recent film appearances. full profile Sarah Sze Professor, Visual Arts Sarah Sze represented the US at the Venice Biennale in 2013, and was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship in 2003. She has exhibited in museums worldwide, and her works are held in the permanent collections of prominent institutions, including the MoMA, the Guggenheim, and the Whitney and more. full profile Rirkrit Tiravanija Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Thai artist Rirkrit Tiravanija is recognized as one of the most influential artists of his generation. His work defies media-based description, as his practice combines traditional object making, public and private performances, teaching, and other forms of public service and social action. full profile Tomas Vu-Daniel LeRoy Neiman Professor of Professional Practice, Visual Arts Tomas Vu-Daniel (b. Saigon, Vietnam) received a BFA from the University of Texas and an MFA from Yale. He has been a professor at Columbia since 1996, when he helped found the LeRoy Neiman Center for Print Studies. In 2000, he was appointed the LeRoy Neiman Professor of Visual Arts. full profile Wendy S. Walters Associate Professor, Writing Wendy S. Walters is the author of four books. Her work appears in Bookforum, FENCE, Harper’s Magazine, and elsewhere. She is a founding director of Essay in Public | A Humanities Project, a member of the NonfictioNOW Conference board, and a Contributing Editor at The Iowa Review. full profile Lance Weiler Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Film Lance Weiler is a storyteller, entrepreneur and thought leader. An alumnus of the Sundance Screenwriting Lab, he is recognized as a pioneer in mixing storytelling and technology. full profile Scott Whitehurst Assistant Professor of Professional Practice, Theatre Scott Whitehurst is an Assistant Professor of Professional Practice in Theatre at Columbia University School of the Arts, where he teaches Shakespeare. Formerly, Mr Whitehurst was Co-head of the MFA Acting Department, School of Drama at The New School. full profile W.B. Worthen Alice Brady Pels Professor in the Arts, and Professor and Chair of the Department of Theatre, Barnard, Theatre W. B. Worthen, Alice Brady Pels Professor in the Arts, and Professor and Chair of the Department of Theatre, is the author of several books, including The Idea of the Actor (Princeton University Press, 1984), Modern Drama and the Rhetoric of Theater (Univ. full profile Lynn Xu Assistant Professor, Writing Born in Shanghai, China, Lynn Xu is the author of Debts & Lessons (Omnidawn, 2013) and And Those Ashen Heaps That Cantilevered Vase of Moonlight (Wave Books, 2022), and the co-translator of Pee Poems by Lao Yang (Circumference Books, 2022). full profile Alan Ziegler Professor of Professional Practice, Writing Alan Ziegler has written numerous books. He has received a fellowship from the New York Foundation for the Arts, PEN Syndicated Fiction, National Endowment for the Arts, Columbia’s Presidential Teaching Award, and others. He chaired the Writing Program from 2001-2006; he is Director of Pedagogy. full profile Adjunct Faculty: Spring 2022 Alex Abramovich Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Alex Abramovich is the author of Cinderella Story: Notes on Contemporary Culture (2002) and Bullies: A Friendship (2016). He's currently at work on a history of rock and roll. full profile Peter Ackerman Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Peter Ackerman was a writer and producer on the award winning FX series, The Americans and on the upcoming Amazon series, Amazing Stories. He co-wrote the movies, Ice Age, Ice Age 3: Dawn of the Dinosaurs, and Angry Birds 2. full profile Vito Adriaensens Adjunct Associate Professor, Film Vito Adriaensens (PhD, MFA) is a Belgian filmmaker, writer, and cinema and performing arts scholar. He specializes in the interaction between (early) cinema and the arts and works primarily on celluloid. full profile Yasi Alipour Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Yasi Alipour is an Iranian artist who lives in Brooklyn and wonders about paper, politics, and performance. She is also a teacher at SVA and is currently a resident at the Sharpe Walentas Studio program. full profile Fabio Andrade Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film and Media Studies Fabio Andrade is a film scholar, critic, and filmmaker. His work has been published by Berlinale, Criterion, and Kino Lorber, and he has worked on films by Thomas Elsaesser and Gabriel Mascaro, among others. full profile Rick Andrews Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Rick is an improviser living in NYC and teaching globally. He is head Instructor at The Magnet Theater, a board member of The Unscripted Project, and has been studying, performing, and teaching improvising since 1999. full profile Henry Anker Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Henry Anker is a visionary painter whose kaleidoscopic practice incorporates American landscape traditions, symbolism, and contemporary image culture. full profile Margaret Araneo Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Margaret is a Brooklyn-based theatre maker and scholar whose work focuses on the intersection of performance and the history of neurological impairments. full profile Gila Ashtor Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Gila Ashtor, PhD, LP is a theorist, writer, and psychoanalyst in private practice in New York City. She is the author of three books and specializes in issues pertaining to trauma, affect, identity and sexuality. full profile Hannah Assadi Adjunct Associate Professor, Writing Hannah Lillith Assadi received her MFA in fiction from the Columbia University School of the Arts. Her first novel Sonora (Soho 2017) received the Rosenthal Family Foundation Award in Literature from the American Academy of Arts and Letters and was a finalist for the PEN/ Robert W. full profile David Auburn Adjunct Associate Professor, Theatre David Auburn is a Pulitzer Prize and Tony-winning playwright, screenwriter, and director. full profile Roni Aviv Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Roni Aviv is a visual artist based in New York. Aviv works with photography, text, and installation to give form to a psychological space of re-processing experiences. Aviv holds an MFA in Visual Arts from Columbia University and studied photography at Cooper Union and Bezalel Academy of Art. full profile Leslie Ayvazian Adjunct Associate Professor, Theatre Leslie Ayvazian is the author of 8 full-length plays and 7 one-act plays, published variously by Samuel French and Dramatist Play Service. Some have been included in annual anthologies of best plays. full profile Victoria Bailey Adjunct Professor, Theatre Victoria Bailey is executive director of the Theatre Development Fund (TDF), the not-for-profit organization that sustains live theatre and dance by engaging and cultivating a broad and diverse audience and eliminating barriers to attendance. full profile Pablo Barba Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Pablo Montealegre Barba was born in Santiago de Chile and lives and works in New York. His work has been exhibited at venues including The Bronx Museum of the Arts, Galería Animal, Galeria BECH and Balmaceda 1215. full profile Courtney Baron Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Courtney Baron is a New York-based playwright and television writer. Her play, When It’s You, premiered at the Keen Company in New York City and was part of Aspen Theater’s inaugural Solo Flight Festival. full profile Corinna Barsan Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Corinna Barsan is an independent book editor with over fifteen years of publishing experience. full profile Cris Beam Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Cris Beam is an author of both fiction and nonfiction: her latest book is I Feel You: The Surprising Power of Extreme Empathy, which was released by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt in 2018. full profile Adam Bernstein Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Adam Bernstein is an Emmy® and Peabody Award winning director whose work spans across television, film and music videos. Bernstein directed the pilot episodes for Scrubs, Alpha House and Strangers with Candy. full profile Keri Bertino Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Keri Bertino's fiction and nonfiction has appeared in Topic, BOMB, Columbia Journal, Electric Literature, and elsewhere. She previously served as the director of the Writing Center at Baruch College, CUNY. full profile Gigi Bolt Adjunct Associate Professor, Theatre Following a focus on government funding and policy-making for the arts at the NEA and NYSCA, Gigi Bolt is a theatre and musical theatre program consultant with an emphasis on new work, and adjunct faculty at Columbia. full profile Deborah Brevoort Adjunct Associate Professor, Theatre Deborah Brevoort writes plays, musicals and opera librettos. She is best known for her play The Women Lockerbie, which is produced all over the world. full profile Laura Brown MacKinnon Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Laura Brown-MacKinnon has worked on Broadway for more than ten years. She worked her way up to associate technical supervisor on over 68 Broadway productions and first national tours while working for Gene O’Donovan at Aurora Productions. full profile Linda Bryant Mentor, Visual Arts I have always sought to make art that has the ability to have real life consequence. full profile Matthew Burgess Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Matthew Burgess is a poet and children’s book author. His most recent books include The Bear and The Moon and Drawing on Walls: A Story of Keith Haring. He edited the collection Spellbound: The Art of Teaching Poetry. full profile Christopher Burney Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Christopher Burney is the Artistic Director of New York Stage and Film. Previously, he was the Tony Nominated Artistic Producer of New York’s Second Stage Theatre where he worked since 1996. full profile Halle Butler Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Halle Butler is the author of two novels, Jillian and The New Me. She was named one of Granta's Best Young American Novelists and is a National Book Foundation 5 Under 35 honoree. full profile Michael Cacioppo Belantara Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Michael is an audiovisual artist, sound designer, composer and technical specialist with a wide range of professional experience in the sonic and visual arts. full profile James Cañón Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing James Cañón's debut novel has been translated into eleven languages, published in over twenty countries, and was made into a film. James has been the recipient of numerous awards, including the Prix du Premier Meilleur Roman Étranger, and the Prix des Lecteurs de Vincennes. full profile Loren-Paul Caplin Adjunct Associate Professor, Film and Media Studies Loren-Paul Caplin has written scripts for many of the major studios (Fox, Paramount, Sony, Universal, Warner Bros.), Hollywood producers and Independent producers, including Laura Ziskin, Joe Roth, Robert Harris, Ben Barenholtz, and Ira Deutchman. full profile Carolyn Casselman Adjunct Associate Professor, Theatre Carrie Casselman is a partner at Davis Wright Tremaine, where her law practice focuses on media and entertainment transactions, including live stage, audio-visual content, music, sports, video games and publishing. full profile Frances Cha Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Frances Cha is from South Korea and author of the novel If I Had Your Face (Ballantine, 2020). Her children’s book The Goblin Twins, set in Korea and New York, is forthcoming from Crown in 2023. full profile Bonnie Chau Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Bonnie Chau is the author of the short story collection All Roads Lead to Blood (2018). She previously worked in independent bookstores and at 826LA and Poets & Writers, and is currently an editor at 4Columns, Public Books, and the Evergreen Review. full profile Rachel Chavkin Adjunct Associate Professor, Theatre Rachel Chavkin received the 2019 Tony Award, Drama Desk Award, and Outer Critics Circle Award for Best Director of a Musical for Anaïs Mitchell’s Hadestown. full profile Onyedika Chuke Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Onyedika Chuke is a New York-based American sculptor, archivist, and gallerist born in Onitsha, Nigeria. Often intrigued by international politics, his analysis of history and media are pertinent reminders of social constructs that characterize our collective memory. full profile Judy Chung Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Judy Chung (b. 1990, Seoul, South Korea) received her BFA from Pratt Institute in 2013 and her MFA from Columbia University in 2018. full profile Barbara Cigarroa Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Barbara Cigarroa’s screenplay El Otro Lado was selected for the 2019 Sundance Screenwriters and Directors Lab. It was also chosen to be a part of The BlackList’s inaugural Latinx List. full profile Kevin Claiborne Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Kevin Claiborne's work examines intersections of identity, social environment, & mental health within the Black American experience. Using collage, silkscreen, photography, painting, and text, Claiborne is interested in finding new ways to look at history & its connection to the present. full profile Noga Cohen Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Noga Cohen is a multidisciplinary artist based in New York. She works in sculpture, installation, photography, and video. full profile Laurie Collyer Adjunct Associate Professor, Film Laurie Collyer is a writer/director living in Brooklyn, NY. full profile CAConrad Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing CAConrad has been working with the ancient technologies of poetry and ritual since 1975. They received a Creative Capital grant, a Pew Fellowship, a Lambda Literary Award, and a Believer Magazine Book Award. full profile Holly Coombs Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Holly Coombs' Broadway Credits include: Catch Me if You Can, Tuck Everlasting, Aladdin, The Nance, Mean Girls. Others include: Cirque du Soleil’s Michael Jackson the Immortal World Tour, Consumer Electronics Show, Arthur Ashe Kids Day US Open. Proud alumna of the University of Puget Sound. full profile Diana Cooper Adjunct Associate Professor, Visual Arts Diana Cooper is a contemporary artist who lives in Brooklyn, New York. She is best known for her hybrid works combining drawing, painting, sculpture, photography, and installation. Drawing has always been central to her practice. full profile Jon Cotner Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Jon Cotner is the author of two books. He has contributed to The American Reader, The Believer, Boston Review, Harper's and A Public Space. His interactive walks have been presented by Creative Time, Elastic City, Harvard University, the Poetry Society of America and Poets House. full profile Lilly Dancyger Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Lilly Dancyger is the author of Negative Space (2021), and the editor of Burn It Down (2019). Lilly's writing has been published by Guernica, Literary Hub, The Rumpus, BOMB, Longreads, The Washington Post, Playboy, Rolling Stone, and more. She lives in New York City. full profile Dennard Dayle Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Dennard Dayle's writing appears in The New Yorker, Clarkesworld, and McSweeney's Internet Tendency. full profile Lizzy De Vita Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Lizzy De Vita is an artist, writer, and educator whose work focuses on human relationships. full profile Dana DeGiulio Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Dana DeGiulio is a professional mourner. full profile Carina del Valle Schorske Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Carina del Valle Schorske is a contributing writer at New York Times Magazine and a translator of Puerto Rican poetry. Her debut essay collection, The Other Island, was honored with a Whiting Nonfiction Grant and is forthcoming from Riverhead in 2022. full profile Jay Deshpande Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Jay Deshpande is the author of Love the Stranger and The Umbrian Sonnets. He is a former Wallace Stegner fellow and a graduate of Columbia's MFA program. full profile David J. Diamond Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre David curates the La MaMa Umbria International Symposia, which bring renowned artists from around the world to Spoleto, Italy each Summer for workshops, residencies and performances in the Spoleto Festival of Two Worlds. He recently received his second CEC ArtLink Residency in St. full profile Matt DiCarlo Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Resident Director: Moulin Rouge. Restaging Director: Beetlejuice Korea, The Play That Goes Wrong Off-Broadway & tour. Assoc. Dir.: The Color Purple tour. PSM: Beetlejuice, The Play That Goes Wrong, Rock of Ages, etc. full profile Alex Dimitrov Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Alex Dimitrov is the author of three books of poems, Love and Other Poems, Together and by Ourselves, and Begging for It. full profile Diane DiVita Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Diane DiVita (Production Stage Manager). Broadway: Eclipsed directed by Liesl Tommy, Our Mother’s Brief Affair, Airline Highway directed by Joe Mantello, The Elephant Man with Bradley Cooper, The Trip to Bountiful, Lombardi directed by Thomas Kail, Hamlet with Jude Law, Impressionism, full profile Katrina Dodson Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Katrina Dodson is a writer and a translator from Portuguese. She translated The Complete Stories by Clarice Lispector (2015), and Mário de Andrade’s 1928 Brazilian modernist classic, Macunaíma (New Directions, 2023). full profile Chris Domenick Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Chris Domenick is an interdisciplinary artist working in painting, sculpture, drawing, and writing. His work explores the poetics of materiality and craft, often engaged with vernacular forms of architecture, design, and the decorative arts. full profile Jeannie Donohoe Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Jeannie Donohoe is an award-winning filmmaker and a recent fellow in the 2019-2021 Sony Pictures Television Diverse Directors Program. This past fall, she was a director trainee on Sony and HBO Max’s Gordita Chronicles. full profile Thom Donovan Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Thom Donovan is the author of numerous books, including Withdrawn (Compline, 2017), The Hole (Displaced Press, 2012) and Withdrawn: a Discourse (Shifter, 2016). He co-edits and publishes ON Contemporary Practice. full profile Harris Doran Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Harris Doran wrote and directed the short film F^¢K '€M R!GHT [email protected]¢K (2022 Sundance Film Festival). full profile Richard Dresser Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Richard Dresser is a playwright and novelist and has worked extensively in TV. He is President of the Writers Guild Initiative, which does writing workshops all over the country with those whose voice is not being heard. full profile Joshua Edwards Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Joshua Edwards directs Canarium Books. He's the author of several books, most recently The Double Lamp of Solitude (Rising Tide Projects, 2022). full profile Steven Eng Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Steven is a professional actor, teacher, director and non-profit co-founder in New York City. His work has been seen throughout the U.S., Europe and Asia. full profile Whitney Estrin Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Whitney Estrin is the Director of Development at TDF, the country’s oldest performing arts service organization dedicated to making theatre and dance accessible to all. full profile Tamar Ettun Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Tamar Ettun is a sculptor and a performance artist based in Brooklyn, New York. Her work explores notions of empathy and ethics through the body. full profile Nick Falzon Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Nick is Vice President, Sales and Analytics for Disney Theatrical Group, where he has worked for nearly fifteen years and leads a team of seventeen Broadway Sales & Analytics professionals. full profile Matthew Farrell Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Matthew Farrell has worked in NYC Film & Television since 2009 as a member of I.A.T.S.E. Local 52 (Shame, Place Beyond the Pines, Boardwalk Empire) and graduated from Columbia University's School of the Arts in 2017 with an MFA in Film Directing. full profile Joseph Fasano Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Joseph Fasano is the author of the novel The Dark Heart of Every Wild Thing and four books of poetry, including Fugue for Other Hands. His honors include the Cider Press Review Book Award and the Rattle Poetry Prize. full profile Rochelle Feinstein Mentor, Visual Arts Rochelle Feinstein is a painter working across varied media, while fundamentally drawing upon the attitudes, attributes and conventions embedded in painting practices. full profile Manoel Felciano Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Manoel Felciano is a Tony nominated actor, director and teacher. He has worked on and off Broadway, regionally and on screen. Before Columbia, he taught and directed in the ACT & NYU MFA programs. In 2017 he was elected to the National Council of Actors’ Equity Association. full profile Matthew Fennell Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Matt Fennell is a film and television writer from Syracuse, New York. His credits include Showtime’s Billions and Netflix’s Brand New Cherry Flavor, in addition to a decade of independent film production experience. full profile Monica Ferrell Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Monica Ferrell is the author of three books of poetry and fiction. You Darling Thing was a finalist for the Kingsley Tufts Poetry Prize and the Believer Book Award in Poetry and a New York Times Noteworthy. Her poems appear in Tin House, A Public Space, and The New Republic, and elsewhere. full profile Ciarán Finlayson Adjunct Assistant Professor, Sound Art Ciarán Finlayson is a New York-based writer and editor. He is the managing editor at Blank Forms. full profile BK Fischer Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing BK Fischer is the author of Ceive and four previous books of poetry, as well as a critical study, Museum Mediations. Her work has appeared in The New York Times, The Paris Review, and elsewhere. full profile Ruth Franklin Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Ruth Franklin is a book critic and the author of Shirley Jackson: A Rather Haunted Life. Her work appears in New Yorker, The New York Times Book Review, The New York Review of Books, and Harper’s, among others. full profile Sue Frost Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Sue Frost is a founding member of Junkyard Dog Productions, which is dedicated to developing and producing new musicals. Prior to Junkyard, Sue was Associate Producer at Goodspeed Musicals for 20 years. Before that she was a Broadway company manager. full profile Joshua Furst Adjunct Associate Professor, Writing Joshua Furst is the author of The Sabotage Café, Short People, and Revolutionaries. His work has appeared in The Chicago Tribune, Salon, Esquire, and others. He is a Contributing Editor on the Jewish Daily Forward. full profile Alan Gilbert Adjunct Associate Professor, Writing Alan Gilbert is the author of three books of poetry and a collection of essays and articles. His work has appeared in The Believer, Boston Review, Artforum, The Village Voice, and elsewhere. He is the recipient of a NY Foundation for the Arts Fellowship and a Creative Capital Foundation Award. full profile Charlotte Glynn Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Charlotte Glynn strives to make fearlessly honest, intimate, character driven films. She makes documentary and fiction films that have screened all over the world. full profile Baris Gokturk Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Baris Gokturk holds an MFA in sculpture from Columbia University and an MFA in painting from Hunter College where he taught for seven years. He currently teaches at Parsons School of Design and Columbia University. full profile Eli Gottlieb Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Eli Gottlieb is the author of four novels that have been translated into 13 languages. A former senior editor of Elle magazine, his nonfiction has appeared in the New York Times, Bookforum, The Wall Street Journal, The Guardian, and the London Times, among other places. full profile Kathy Greenberg Adjunct Associate Professor, Film Kathy Greenberg is a Writer/Creator of Ratatouille, Gnomeo and Juliet, Sherlock Gnomes, L Word and Imposters. Formerly an Executive at Working Title Films/Universal, Jim Henson, and Tristar, she is graduate of the University of Wisconsin-Madison. full profile Yardenne Greenspan Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Yardenne Greenspan is a writer and Hebrew translator. Her writing and translations have appeared in The New Yorker, Haaretz, Guernica, Literary Hub, Blunderbuss, Apogee, The Massachusetts Review, Asymptote, and Words Without Borders, among elsewhere. full profile Elizabeth Greenwood Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Elizabeth Greenwood is the author of Love Lockdown: Dating, Sex, and Marriage in America's Prison System and Playing Dead: A Journey Through the World of Death Fraud. full profile Benjamin Hale Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Benjamin Hale is the author of the novel The Evolution of Bruno Littlemore (Twelve, 2011) and the collection The Fat Artist and Other Stories (Simon & Schuster, 2016). full profile Valerie Hammond Mentor, Visual Arts Valerie Hammond maintains a fluid artistic practice, distinguishable for her organic approach and deft interaction with different mediums. full profile Fred Hanson Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Fred Hanson has an extensive background in production planning, project management, and creative services for large scale, live events. full profile LaTrisa Harper Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theater LaTrisa Harper's credits include Broadway: Color Purple (u/s Nettie, Squeak), Lion King (Cheetah). 1st National Tours: Motown (Mary Wells, Gwen Gordy), Color Purple (u/s Nettie, Squeak) Regional: Matilda The Musical (Miss. Honey), Smokey Joe’s Cafe (Brenda), The Wiz, Center Stage; A.R.T. full profile EJ Hauser Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts EJ Hauser is an artist represented by Derek Eller Gallery in New York and Philipp Haverkampf in Berlin. Her paintings and drawings have been exhibited in numerous group exhibitions in New York and internationally. full profile Michael Hausman Adjunct Associate Professor, Film Michael Hausman has been in the Motion Picture Industry for over five decades. Starting as a production assistant he has worked with many directors as a producer and assistant director on films including: Brokeback Mountain, Gangs of New York, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, and more. full profile Mark Sean Haynes Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Mark Sean Haynes is a New York based post production supervisor and producer. He graduated from Columbia University's film MFA program in 2016 as a directing concentrate. Films he has served on have played in Cannes, Toronto, Telluride, Venice, and Sundance. full profile Emily Henretta Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Emily Henretta received her MFA from Columbia University in 2011 and is currently living and working in New York. full profile Joanna Hershon Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Joanna Hershon is the author of 5 novels: St. Ivo, Swimming, The Outside of August, The German Bride and A Dual Inheritance. She has work in Yale Review, London Magazine, Granta, New York Times, One Story. full profile James Hoberman Adjunct Professor, Film and Media Studies Author, co-author or editor of 15 books. Taught film history for 20 years at the Cooper Union, also NYU, Harvard and Columbia. Published in the New York Review of Books, Artforum, New York Times, Tablet, The Nation, and elsewhere. Film critic at the Village Voice, 1978-2010. full profile Briallen Hopper Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Briallen Hopper is the author of Hard to Love: Essays and Confessions (Bloomsbury, 2019), a Kirkus Best Book of the Year. Her essays have appeared in Los Angeles Review of Books, New York Magazine/The Cut, The Paris Review, The Yale Review, and elsewhere. full profile Diane Houslin Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Diane Houslin is a New York City based television and film producer. Her work has been shown on multiple broadcast, cable and digital platforms, as well as domestic and international film festivals. full profile Heidi Howard Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Heidi Howard employs portraiture to create new painted spaces. Often painted en plein air, Howard’s portraits are a record of time spent with the person, of heat, of sound and of ideas. full profile David Humphrey Mentor, Visual Arts David Humphrey is a New York artist who has been showing his paintings and sculpture internationally since the 1980’s. Blind Handshake, an anthology of his art writing, was published in 2010 and includes a variety of reviews, essays, and curatorial statements. full profile Annette Hur Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Annette Hur was born in South Korea and currently lives and works in Brooklyn. full profile Leon Ingulsrud Adjunct Associate Professor, Theatre Leon Ingulsrud is a performer, director, writer and teacher who works primarily in the theater. He is one of three Co-Artistic Directors along with Anne Bogart and Ellen Lauren of the SITI Company. full profile Ralf Jean-Pierre Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Precious Gorgeous, aka Ralf Jean-Pierre, is a first generation Haitian-American rapper-songwriter, actor, and comedian from Brooklyn, NY. full profile Morgan Jenness Adjunct Associate Professor, Theatre Morgan Jenness has worked as a dramaturg, educator, activist all over the country and as Associate Producer at the Public Theater, and also was an Associate Artistic Director at NYTW and LATC. full profile Katrine Øgaard Jensen LTAC Coordinator, Writing; Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Katrine Øgaard Jensen is a writer and translator from the Danish. She is a recipient of several fellowships and awards, including the 2018 National Translation Award in Poetry. full profile Nalini Jones Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Nalini Jones is the author of What You Call Winter, a story collection. She is a recipient of an NEA fellowship, Pushcart Prize, and O. Henry Prize. Her work has appeared in Ploughshares, One Story and Ninth Letter, among others, and in anthologies including AIDS Sutra and Freud’s Blind Spot. full profile Michael Joo Mentor, Visual Arts Michael Joo is a New York based artist. He uses sculpture, performance and installation in his work, as well as a combination of scientific language and complex structures that exemplify and parody the potential of form. full profile Myna Joseph Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Myna Joseph’s films Man and Fit Model have screened at Cannes Directors’ Fortnight, Sundance, the New York Film Festival, SXSW, and New Directors/New Films, with Fit Model in current release on The Criterion Channel. full profile Madhu Kaza Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Born in Andhra Pradesh, India, Madhu H. Kaza is a writer, translator, artist and educator based in New York City. full profile Sushma Khadepaun Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Born and raised in India, Sushma is a writer/director based in New York City. A storyteller with a passion for women’s rights and immigrant narratives, Sushma’s stories often explore/challenge the idea of home, identity, and the myth of the American Dream. full profile Elizabeth Kling Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Elizabeth Kling is a filmmaker working as Editor and Producer in both film and television. As Editor she worked on films such as Zebrahead, The Thin Blue Line, Georgia, Addicted to Love, Practical Magic, and the pilots for Big Love, The Killing, and others. full profile Michael Korie Adjunct Associate Professor, Theatre Michael Korie: lyrics for Broadway musicals War Paint, Grey Gardens, Flying Over Sunset. Opera librettos: The Grapes of Wrath, Harvey Milk. Honors: Marc Blitzstein, Kleban, Larson, Rodgers. Serves on Dramatists Guild Council. full profile Nicole Krauss Adjunct Professor, Writing Nicole Krauss is the author of Man Walks Into a Room, Forest Dark, Great House, and The History of Love. Her fiction has been published in The New Yorker, Harper’s, Esquire, and Best American Short Stories, and her books have been translated into more than thirty-five languages. full profile Justine Kurland Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Justine Kurland, known for her utopian photographs of American landscapes and their fringe communities, has spent the better part of the last twenty years on the road. full profile Dana Kuznetzkoff Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Dana Kuznetzkoff produced or managed such diverse projects from HBO’s pilot episode Boardwalk Empire to their acclaimed series The Wire and NBC’s Smash. full profile Joss Lake Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Joss Lake is a trans writer and educator based in New York whose work has been supported by Queens Council of the Arts, Women and Performance Studies Collective, NYFA, the Watermill Center, and Columbia University. He runs a literary sauna series called Trans at Rest. full profile Jason LaRiviere Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film and Media Studies Jason LaRiviere received his PhD in Media, Culture, and Communication at NYU. His writing has appeared in boundary 2, e-flux, The Brooklyn Rail, and elsewhere. He is working on a book incorporating data compression archeology, psychophysics of perceptual coding, and digital philosophy. full profile Tal Lazar Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Tal Lazar is a Cinematographer, Producer and Educator. He moved from Tel Aviv, Israel in 2007 to pursue an MFA in Cinematography at the American Film Institute Conservatory in Hollywood. full profile Hilary Leichter Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Hilary is the author of the novel Temporary. Her writing has appeared in The New Yorker, Harper's, The New York Times, and elsewhere. full profile Ralph Lemon Mentor, Visual Arts Ralph Lemon, is choreographer, writer, visual artist and curator, and the Artistic Director of Cross Performance, a company dedicated to the creation of cross-cultural and cross-disciplinary performance and presentation. His most recent works include Scaffold Room (2015), Four Walls (2012), and full profile Ben Leonberg Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Ben is a filmmaker and creative director for virtual reality. As a founding member of YouVisit Studios, he has led VR and 360º video productions all over the world. full profile Bicheng Liang Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Bicheng Liang, based in New York, investigates the human relationship to time, scale, and meaning through processed-based interactions with sites and materials. full profile Kate Loewald Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Kate Loewald is the Founding Producer of PlayCo, an award winning Off Broadway theatre that commissions, develops and produces new plays from the U.S. and around the world. full profile Daniel Magariel Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Daniel Magariel's first novel One of the Boys (Scribner 2017) was named a New York Times Book Review Editors' Choice. His second novel Walk the Darkness Down is forthcoming from Bloomsbury (2023). full profile Orlee Malka Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Orlee Malka (she/her) is an interdisciplinary artist living in New York. Her conceptual and collaborative work considers the possibilities of art making within forms of collapse. In fieldwork to the unconsoled (2018) Malka examines issues of excavation practices and museum restitution. full profile Valerie Castillo Martinez Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Valerie Castillo Martinez is a Filipina American filmmaker who founded her company IndieFlip, to make films that deal with underrepresented subjects, cross-cultural themes and flipping the usual narratives. full profile Rogelio Martinez Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Rogelio Martinez is an award-winning playwright. He is a recipient of a 2017 Guggenheim Fellowship. He is also the winner of a Princess Grace Award. He is writing plays for Miami New Drama, Syracuse Stage, and En Garde Arts. full profile Linda Marvel Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Linda Marvel has been stage managing for 30 years, on and Off-Broadway. Regional Theatres include: La Jolla Playhouse, The Kennedy Center, The Alliance, Long Wharf Theatre, Pittsburgh Public Theatre, and others. full profile Patricia Marx Adjunct Associate Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Patricia Marx is a staff writer for the New Yorker and a former writer for Saturday Night Live and Rugrats. She's written two novels, a children’s book, and her latest book is You Can Only Yell At Me for One Thing At A Time: Rules for Couples. full profile Jean McClelland Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Jean McClelland is a senior teacher of the Alexander Technique, certified by the American Society for the Alexander Technique (AmSAT) and the American Center for the Alexander Technique (ACAT). Jean received her B.A. full profile Erroll McDonald Adjunct Associate Professor, Writing Erroll McDonald is a Vice President Executive Editor in the Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group of Penguin Random House. Among the authors he has published are: James Baldwin, Sandra Cisneros, Carlos Fuentes, Margo Jefferson, Toni Morrison, Salman Rushdie, President Nicolas Sarkozy, and others. full profile Theresa McElwee Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Theresa currently teaches voice and speech at NYU Tisch School of the Arts, at HB Studio, the American Musical and Dramatic Academy, and in private practice, working with actors, broadcasters, corporate clients and social justice advocates. full profile Charles L. Mee Special Lecturer, Theatre Charles L. Mee (Playwright) has written Big Love, True Love, First Love, bobrauschenbergamerica, Hotel Cassiopeia, Orestes 2.0, Trojan Women A Love Story, Summertime and Wintertime among other plays--all available on the internet at www.charlesmee.org. full profile Lynn Melnick Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Lynn Melnick is the author of three poetry collections, including, most recently, Refusenik. Her memoir, I've Had to Think Up a Way to Survive: On Trauma, Persistence, and Dolly Parton, is forthcoming from University of Texas Press in fall 2022. full profile Lincoln Michel Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Lincoln Michel’s novel The Body Scout (Orbit) was named one of the 10 best SFF books of 2021 by The New York Times. His short stories appear in The Paris Review, Granta, NOON, Lightspeed, and elsewhere. full profile Lisa Milinazzo Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Lisa Milinazzo (Director/Playwright, Theatre, Film): Directing Award Nominations: Barbara Whitman Directing Award; Alan Schneider Freelance Directing award, Best Director Award, Origin Theatre 2019, Best Director & Best Ensemble, L.A. Weekly Awards. full profile Edward Minoff Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Edward Minoff is a contemporary representational artist. He teaches at the Grand Central Atelier, Columbia University, the Hudson River Fellowship and leads workshops online and across the country. full profile Nour Mobarak Mentor, Sound Art Nour Mobarak (b. 1985, Cairo, Egypt) lives and works in Los Angeles. Her works have been shown at Miguel Abreu Gallery (New York, 2021, 2019), KIM? full profile Farah Mohammad Adjunct Associate Professor, Visual Arts Farah Mohammad is a Pakistani printmaker and installation artist based in New York City. full profile Stephen Molton Adjunct Associate Professor, Film Stephen Molton is a screenwriter, producer, librettist, author, and former film executive. His books include Brave Talk and Brothers in Arms: The Kennedys, the Castros and the Politics of Murder (co-authored with Gus Russo), selected by its publisher as a Pulitzer Prize nominee. full profile Alicia Mountain Adjunct Assistant Profesor, Writing Alicia Mountain is the author of High Ground Coward, winner of the Iowa Poetry Prize. Her next collection, Four in Hand, will be published by BOA in 2023. full profile Rachelle Mozman Mentor, Visual Arts Rachelle Mozman Solano grew up in New York City. She works between New York and Panama, the country of her maternal family. Starting often from her biography and family history, Mozman Solano explores how culture shapes individuals, how environment conditions behavior. full profile Jennifer Nuss Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Lives and works in Harlem. Finalist for the New York Foundation for the Arts Grant in Film in 2015. Recipient of the Guggenheim Fellowship, Joan Mitchell Award and NYFA for drawing. Recipient of the Marie Walsh Sharpe Foundation for the Arts residency. full profile Samantha Nye Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Samantha Nye is a painter, video, and installation artist living in Philadelphia. She is currently preparing for a solo show at the Candice Madey Gallery in New York City and a video installation project in Utrecht. full profile Michelle Orange Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Michelle Orange is the author of This Is Running for Your Life: Essays (FSG, 2013), named best book of the year by The New Yorker. Her work has appeared in Harper’s, The Nation, Bookforum, the New Yorker, The New York Times, Slate, and others. Her second book, Pure Flame, is forthcoming. full profile Joseph Osmundson Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Joseph Osmundson is a scientist, activist, and writer. His training is in molecular biophysics and microbiology, and his writing includes everything from science, health, and disease to queer theory, memoir, and fiction. full profile Nadia Owusu Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Nadia Owusu is a Ghanaian and Armenian-American writer and urbanist. She was the recipient of a 2019 Whiting Award. Her debut memoir, Aftershocks, was selected as a best book of 2021 by Time, Vogue, Esquire, The Guardian, NPR, the BBC, and others. full profile Mike O’Brien Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Mike O’Brien is an experienced audio professional well-versed in all aspects of location sound. In his far-reaching career, Mike has seen and done it all: ENG, EFP, multi-camera live events, and narrative and documentary films. full profile Shanga Parker Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Shanga Parker — Arts Professor, Associate Chair, Department of Undergraduate Drama, Tisch School of the Arts, NYU — teaches Acting, primarily Movement for Actors. full profile JJ PEET Part-time Lecturer, Visual Arts Through a focus on formalism and the craft of object making, JJ builds work that tells a story specific to its respective medium and its implicit hierarchy. full profile Diana Peralta Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Diana Peralta is a director, writer, and producer. Her debut feature film, De Lo Mio (HBO), had its world premiere as the closing night film of BAMcinemaFest in 2019 and was picked up for distribution by HBO in 2020. full profile Richard Perello Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Producer and executive in the entertainment industry for over 25 years including studio/independent feature films and network and premium television. Currently COO and head of production for Alex Gibney’s Jigsaw Productions full profile Lisa M. Poyer Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Lisa M. Poyer teaches the course in Company Management at Columbia School of the Arts. She has managed 24 Broadway shows. She is a graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School and admitted to practice law in New York. full profile James Price Adjunct Associate Professor, Film James Price (Acting For Directors and Screenwriters) is the Founding Director of The Acting Studio - New York and Chelsea Repertory Company where he has trained generations of actors and teachers since their inceptions in 1983 and 1984 respectively. full profile Mallika Rao Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Mallika Rao is an award-winning writer of nonfiction. Her byline appears frequently at Believer Magazine, New York Magazine, the New York Times, and other places. She is an experienced teacher of writing in the New York City area. full profile Cody Renard Richard Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Cody Renard Richard is an advocate, educator and professional Stage Manager with a career that spans many genres including Broadway, Television, Cirque Du Soleil and Opera. full profile Matthew Ritchie Mentor, Visual Arts Matthew Ritchie’s installations of painting, wall drawings, light boxes, sculpture, and projections are investigations of the idea of information, explored through science, architecture, history and the dynamics of culture, defined equally by their range and their lyrical visual language. full profile Jeremy Robbins Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Jeremy Robbins was a producer on The Spiderwick Chronicles for Apple, Paramount, and Barry Sonnenfeld. He’s developing a tv series with Adam McKay and Hyperobject Industries, a project for WBTV and DC Comics, and his feature APEX was on the 2021 Blacklist. full profile Darren Robertson Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Darren Robertson is the Vice President of Performance and Campus Operations for Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, overseeing operation of the Lincoln Center campus, including all performances in the Lincoln Center owned venues and public campus areas. full profile Domenic Romano Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Domenic is an experienced Corporate Lawyer & Entertainment Attorney whose practice covers Business and Media law. He is the Founding Member of the Entertainment Lawyers Group, a member of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences (TV Academy) and an Emmy voter. full profile Jack Rouse Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Jack holds a PhD from the University of Michigan, and prior to becoming involved in experiential design Jack was a college professor at the University of Wisconsin and the University of Cincinnati where be initiated the opera, music theatre and technical theatre programs. full profile Tyler Rowland Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Tyler Rowland (b. 1978 Reno, NV) was raised in Phoenix, AZ and lives and works in New York City. He received his BA from Vassar College and his MFA from California Institute of the Arts. full profile Shrihari Sathe Adjunct Associate Professor, Film Shrihari Sathe is an Independent Spirit Award-winning producer. His feature directorial debut 1000 Rupee Note has received over 30 awards. Sathe is a member of PGA, IMPPA, and AMPAS. full profile Saïd Sayrafiezadeh Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Saïd Sayrafiezadeh is the author of the story collections American Estrangement and Brief Encounters With the Enemy. He won a Whiting Writers’ Award for his memoir When Skateboards Will Be Free. full profile Beth Schacter Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Beth Schacter is showrunner/EP of Super Pumped: The Battle for Uber & Billions. Previous credits for television: Soundrtrack, Bunheads, Seal Team, Quantico. She wrote & directed Normal Adolescent Behavior which was her 2nd year Columbia Film Screenplay. full profile David Schwab Adjunct Associate Professor, Film David Schwab has been a professor of screen writing at the Graduate Film School at Columbia University since 2014. Mr. Schwab has written for Scott Rudin, Warner Brothers, Animal Logic, Hollywood Pictures, Propaganda, and Paramount Pictures. full profile Leonard Schwartz Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Leonard Schwartz is the author of numerous books of poetry and essay, including The New Babel: Towards a Poetics of the Mid-East Crises and Salamander: A Bestiary. Schwartz's most recent collection of poetry is entitled Heavy Sublimation (2018), from Talisman House. full profile Justin Scribner Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Justin is a stage manager, producer, playwright, poet, and author. full profile Mayukh Sen Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Mayukh Sen is the author of Taste Makers: Seven Immigrant Women Who Revolutionized Food in America (2021). He has won a James Beard and IACP Award for his writing, and his work has been anthologized in two editions of The Best American Food Writing. full profile Ramin Serry Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Ramin Serry has written and directed two critically-acclaimed feature films, Maryam (2002) and Loveless (2011). His short films have been official selections at several film festivals. full profile Shira-Lee Shalit Adjunct Associate Professor, Film Shira-Lee Shalit is an award-winning director of film and theatre. Chosen by Steven Spielberg out of 12,000 filmmakers, she was one of 18 Finalists for the Fox/Dreamworks show, On the Lot. full profile Jon Shear Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Jon directed, co-wrote, and produced Urbania, which was nominated for the Grand Jury Prize at Sundance. full profile Rachel Sherman Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Rachel Sherman holds an MFA in fiction from Columbia University. Her short stories have appeared in McSweeney’s, Fence, Conjunctions, n+1, and the Los Angeles Review of Books, among other publications. full profile Lee Siegel Adjunct Associate Professor, Writing Lee Siegel is the author of six books and has published over 700 essays, articles and reviews, which have appeared in The Atlantic Monthly, the New Republic, The Nation, The New Yorker, Newsweek, Time, New York, The New York Times, Harper's, the New York Review of Books, and elsewhere. full profile Rafi Silver Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Rafi Silver is a professional actor, writer, and educator from upstate New York. He is one of the co-creators of the class “Proof of Concept” which was developed to encourage acting students to begin the process of creating their own original performance based content. full profile Ira Silverberg Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Ira Silverberg—editor, agent, publicist—has worked with writers since the mid-80’s. His devotion to writers from marginalized communities, and work that breaks boundaries, has been the defining trait of his career. full profile Hasanthika Sirisena Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Hasanthika Sirisena's most recent book Dark Tourist: Essays was released in December 2021. full profile Danielle Skaarstad Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Danielle Skraastad is a director, teacher and actor. Danielle teaches Games at the NYU Grad Acting Program. She has taught Games since 2006. full profile Mary Jane Skalski Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Mary Jane Skalski is a New York based producer working in both film and television. full profile Emily Skillings Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Emily Skillings is the author of the poetry collection Fort Not (The Song Cave, 2017), which Publishers Weekly called a “fabulously eccentric, hypnotic, and hypervigilant debut.” full profile Kiki Smith Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Kiki Smith (American, b. 1954, Nuremberg, Germany) has been known since the 1980s for her multidisciplinary practice relating to the human body and the natural world. full profile Pamela Sneed Adjunct Associate Professor, Visual Arts Pamela Sneed is a New York-based poet, writer, performer and visual artist. She is author of Imagine Being More Afraid of Freedom than Slavery, KONG and Other Works and a chaplet, Gift by Belladonna. full profile Mikael Södersten Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Mikael Södersten has over 25 years of experience in the Nordic film and television industries. Widely known as one of Scandinavia's leading script doctors and dramaturgs, he’s worked on over 80 projects in Europe and his native Sweden. full profile Alex Steyermark Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Alex Steyermark has directed the feature films, Prey for Rock & Roll, One Last Thing…, Losers Take All and documentary The 78 Project Movie, which have been acclaimed at numerous US and International film festivals including Sundance, TIFF (Toronto), BFI London, Tribeca, full profile Lynn Steger Strong Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Lynn Steger Strong is the author of the novels Hold Still, Want, and the forthcoming Flight. Her non-fiction has appeared in the New York Times, New York Magazine, The New Republic, Harper's Bazaar, The Los Angeles Times, and elsewhere. full profile Raghav Tandon Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Raghav Tandon is currently an independent producer with projects set up at Netflix (US and India) and FX, along with a slate of 10 projects geared towards both a domestic and global marketplace with a focus on diverse voices and stories. full profile Benjamin Taylor Adjunct Associate Professor, Writing Benjamin Taylor is the author of several books, including the memoir Here We Are, published with Penguin in 2020. Bright Medusas: A Life of Willa Cather is scheduled to appear from Viking Press in 2023. full profile Edwin Torres Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Torres' books include Quanundrum [i will be your many angled thing] (Roof Books), Xoeteox (Wave Books), Ameriscopia (University of Arizona Press). He is the editor of The Body In Language: An Anthology (Counterpath Press). full profile Ron Van Lieu Adjunct Professor, Theatre Ron Van Lieu was the Master Teacher of Acting and eventually Chair of the NYU Graduate Acting Program where he taught from 1975 to 2004. In 2004 he was appointed the Lloyd Richards Professor of Acting and Chair of the Acting Program at the Yale School of Drama where he taught until 2017. full profile Lara Vapnyar Adjunct Associate Professor, Writing Lara Vapnyar is the author of four novels and two collections of short stories. She is a recipient of the Guggenheim fellowship, and Goldberg Prize for Jewish fiction. Her stories and essays have appeared in The New Yorker, The New York Times, Harper’s, and The New Republic. full profile John Vincler Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing John Vincler currently writes a column on painting for The Paris Review. He is at work on a book-length project on the poetics of cloth as subject and medium in art. He is the Visual Culture Editor at Music & Literature and worked for the last decade as a rare-book librarian. full profile Alex Volckhausen Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Alex Volckhausen: Show caller and deck manager with a client list that includes Oath/Verizon, MIT, Cisco Systems, Google, Goldman Sachs, Carlyle Group, CVC Capital, Riverstone, Skybridge Capital, the New York Times, NCAA, LG, Samsung, Univision, Essence Magazine, Samsung, Amway, MasterCard, the Aust full profile Asiya Wadud Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Asiya Wadud's latest book is No Knowledge Is Complete Until It Passes Through My Body. In addition to teaching at Columbia, she teaches poetry to children at Saint Ann's School in Brooklyn, New York. full profile Kaiser Wahab Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Kaiser Wahab represents startup ventures to Fortune 500 companies on the range of corporate, venture capital, contract, and intellectual property issues that confront businesses. full profile Donna Walker-Kuhne Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Donna Walker-Kuhne is President of Walker International Communications Group, a boutique consulting agency. She provides services to numerous organizations throughout the world and has generated over $20m in income. full profile Patrice Renee Washington Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Patrice Renee Washington earned her BFA from Metropolitan State University, Denver, CO and her MFA from Columbia University, NY. full profile Stuart Weinstock Lecturer, Film Stuart Weinstock is a writer, a director, and a professor of Film. He earned his BA in Film Studies and Psychology from Columbia College, and his MFA in Directing from Columbia's School of the Arts. His short films have screened and won awards at film festivals worldwide. full profile Anthony Weintraub Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Anthony Weintraub is an accomplished screenwriter, film and TV producer and director, with a foot in industries ranging from feature films, television and children’s media to branding and communications. full profile Amber White Adjunct Assistant Professor, Theatre Amber White is currently the Associate Production Supervisor of all five Hamilton companies in the US. Amber has been an AEA Stage Manager for the past 23 years in which she has stage managed productions on Broadway, Off Broadway, Nationally, Regionally, and Internationally. full profile Tommy White Adjunct Assistant Professor, Visual Arts Tommy White is the recipient of a Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship, a Howard Foundation Fellowship, a New York Foundation for the Arts Fellowship, and a Robert Rauschenberg Foundation Award. full profile Brenda Wineapple Adjunct Professor, Writing Brenda Wineapple is the prize-winning author of several works of nonfiction and, most recently, The Impeachers: The Trial of Andrew Johnson and the Dream of a Just Nation. Her work regularly appears in The New York Times and The New York Review of Books, and elsewhere. full profile Linda Winer Adjunct Professor, Theatre Linda Winer received her BA, magna cum laude, at Northeastern Illinois University in 1968, and was Distinguished Alumna of 2013. She did additional study in musicology at University of Southern California. full profile Chris Wolfe Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Chris Wolfe '18 is a military veteran and writer whose work has been featured in the BOMB Magazine, Guernica, The New York Times Magazine, and two anthologies. full profile Mark Wunderlich Adjunct Assistant Professor, Writing Mark Wunderlich is the author of four books of poems, the most recent of which is God of Nothingness (Graywolf Press 2021). A 2021 Guggenheim Fellow, he is the Director of the Bennington Writing Seminars in Vermont. full profile Matvei Yankelevich Adjunct Associate Professor, Writing Matvei Yankelevich is a poet, translator, and editor whose books include Some Worlds for Dr. Vogt (Black Square) and Today I Wrote Nothing: The Selected Writings of Daniil Kharms (Overlook). full profile Rona Yefman Mentor, Visual Arts Rona Yefman working in Photography, Video, and Installation. Her work explores social, political, and personal issues of identity through a range of human experiences by collaborating with individuals who have formed Radical personas that inscribe the iconic and the absurd of our time. full profile James Yeh Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing James Yeh is a writer, editor, and journalist. His work has appeared in The New York Times, The Guardian, NOON, VICE, and Harper’s, and is forthcoming in The Drift. He works as the reviews editor at The Believer. full profile Kate Zambreno Adjunct Associate Professor, Writing Kate Zambreno is the author of eight books, most recently the novel Drifts and To Write as if Already Dead, a study on Hervé Guibert. She is a 2021 Guggenheim Fellow in Nonfiction. full profile Craig Zammiello Mentor (Spring 2022), Adjunct Assistant Professor (Summer 2022), Visual Arts Craig Zammiello is a Master Printer with over 40 years of experience in all areas of printmaking. He is the author of a studio manual on photogravure, and the book Conversations from the Print Studio published by Yale University Press. full profile Abigail Zealey Bess Adjunct Assistant Professor, Film Zealey Bess, is an award-winning filmmaker, theatre director and educator. She has been directing theatre and film, specializing in new work since she arrived on these shores and established her company, Weird Sisters, as a theatrical entity in 1997. full profile Samantha Zighelboim Adjunct Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Creative Writing Samantha Zighelboim is the author of The Fat Sonnets and co-translator of Equestrian Monuments by Luis Chaves. She teaches writing at Columbia University, Parsons School of Design, and The New School. full profile News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University