Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Academics https://youtu.be/8l0ucN6PA6o ACADEMICS Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Our Academic Approach The possibilities are only as limited as your imagination. The College of Arts and Sciences teaches students to question and think critically. From careers in law to museum curators, our alumni have jobs in a myriad of fields. Our Arts and Sciences programs elevate the level of conversation on campus, and once students develop their own voice, their passion will drive their careers. UNDERGRADUATE The College of Arts and Sciences has two fundamental requirements. The first is that each student learns to write English with precision and fluency, a process enhanced by continuing practice in courses across the curriculum. The second requirement is that in completing a bachelor’s degree each student acquires broad skills and knowledge complementary to his or her academic emphasis or specialization. To earn a bachelor of arts degree, the student must complete study of a second language through the fourth-semester level or demonstrate equivalent proficiency. Non-native English speakers should consult the advising office for bachelor of arts requirements. The bachelor of science degree requires the student to complete a sequence of prescribed courses in mathematics and statistics. Selection of course work may be stipulated by the major program. The bachelor of fine arts, bachelor of music and bachelor of music education are preprofessional degrees based on the college’s historic involvement with the fine and performing arts. Degree requirements in these programs vary. Incoming students complete a sequence of writing courses that provides them with the skills needed to meet the expectations and demands of college-level assignments. Additionally, all incoming undergraduates must complete, place-out of or show proficiency in contemporary mathematics or another basic mathematics course certified by the University Curriculum Committee such as basic calculus, mathematics with applications or pre-calculus mathematics. Incoming freshmen also complete AS 1001, an orientation course that introduces students to a disciplinary topic as well as skills and services necessary to student success. Undergraduates in the College of Arts and Sciences complete their course of study with an intensive, rigorous, senior-year academic experience. The nature of this senior requirement varies by discipline but usually consists of a specially designed course in the student’s major area of study. GRADUATE Graduate education is based upon the principles that no objective lies deeper in a university’s tradition than the nurture of scholarship and that graduate education represents the highest reaches of the college and university endeavor. The college continues to maintain and strengthen its academic standards by internationalizing its programs, developing substantive research opportunities and seeking distinction in critical fields, including research, the better to equip its students for life in a rapidly changing world. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT