Skip to content COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK Search for: Contact Us Support Us Arts Initiative at Columbia University Search for: Free & Discounted Tickets Performances Museums Movies Events Events Calendar Columbia Nights Morningside Lights Museum Exhibitions For Students Student Arts Grants Ticket Your Event Submit Your Event For Faculty ArtsLink About Mission & Team About the TIC Contact Us Support Us Museums Museum Discounts Get free and discounted admission to museums around New York City For Current Columbia Students Passport to Museums Get free admission to nearly 30 incredible museums in New York City through our Passport to Museums program. BROWSE MUSEUM LIST Photo: Columbia Students explore the MoMA as part of a Columbia Night event | Credit: Fadi Kheir Art shown: Henri Matisse – Dance (I) & Jeannette (IV) Current & Upcoming Exhibits Discover the rich arts landscape of Columbia and throughout New York City. Discover Passport to Museums Partners Get free admission to the museums below who generously provide this experience to current Columbia students. All you need for admission is your CUID with a current semester validation sticker. Get your validation sticker from the Student Service Center in 210 Kent Hall [more info] Blank item Accordion Content The Africa Center 1280 Fifth Avenue (at 109th Street) New York, NY 10029 theafricacenter.org Explore facets of contemporary Africa, its diaspora, and people of African descent through performances, installations, talks, readings, and film screenings. The Africa Center does not always have exhibitions on view, so check their events calendar before heading over. The American Numismatic Society (Temporarily Closed) 75 Varick St, Floor 11 New York, NY 10013 numismatics.org The American Numismatic Society is a nonprofit organization dedicated to the study of coins, currency, medals, tokens, and related objects from all cultures, past and present. Founded by a group of collectors in New York City in 1858, the Society has the distinction of being the second oldest museum in Manhattan. Discover what’s currently on display from their vast collection of coins, medals, and paper currency from every part of the globe. The Bronx Museum of the Arts 1040 Grand Concourse Bronx, NY 10456 bronxmuseum.org Check out the Bronx Museum of the Arts for innovative contemporary art with a focus on artists of color and NYC-based artists. Located on Grand Concourse just a few blocks from Yankee Stadium, the museum is only about a 20-minute ride on the B or D train from Columbia. The Met Cloisters Fort Tryon Park New York, NY 10040 metmuseum.org/visit/plan-your-visit/met-cloisters Escape the city without leaving the city. At the top of scenic Fort Tryon Park, you’ll find the Met Cloisters, the branch of the Metropolitan Museum of Art dedicated to the art and architecture of medieval Europe. The building itself—a 1930s reconstruction featuring elements of medieval French cloisters—is a highlight, as are the serene gardens. El Museo del Barrio 1230 Fifth Avenue (between 104th and 105th street) New York, NY 10029 elmuseo.org/ Discover the arts of Latino, Caribbean, and Latin American cultures through El Museo’s wide-ranging exhibitions and exciting public programs. As a current Columbia student, faculty, or staff member, you’ll receive free admission for yourself plus a guest with your valid CUID. International Center of Photography 79 Essex Street New York, NY 10002 icp.org Take a deep dive into the medium of photography. ICP’s acclaimed exhibitions cover the full spectrum of photography, from early daguerreotypes, documentary images, and contemporary photography to multimedia installations that employ both traditional and digital techniques. Japan Society 333 East 47th Street New York, NY 10017 japansociety.org For a crash course in Japanese arts and culture (past and present), get yourself to Japan Society, a true hidden gem in the neighborhood of two major NYC landmarks—Grand Central Station and the U.N. Headquarters. Its gallery regularly features expertly curated and designed exhibitions, and its auditorium hosts one-of-a-kind performances from Japan’s leading theater and dance artists. And don’t forget to take a moment to savor the calm of the lobby’s indoor garden. The Metropolitan Museum of Art 1000 Fifth Avenue (at 82nd Street) New York, NY 10028 metmuseum.org What’s your pleasure: art from Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe, Oceania? Painting, sculpture, drawings, photographs, artifacts? Historical fashion, musical instruments, interior design, arms and armor? The Met Museum has it all, and more. Whether it’s your first visit or your five hundredth, with its immense collection containing over 5,000 years worth of art from around the world, there is always something new to be found. MoMA P.S. 1 22-25 Jackson Ave Long Island City, NY 11101 moma.org/ps1 Want to see today’s most experimental, thought-provoking contemporary art? Then MoMA P.S.1 is your destination. P.S.1 isn’t your typical “white cube” museum—it’s housed in a Neo-Romanesque building that was once home to Queens Public School No. 1. Much of the school’s interior architecture was preserved, with the original classrooms and hallways now serving as gallery spaces. Museum of Jewish Heritage 36 Battery Place New York, NY 10280 mjhnyc.org Spend a contemplative afternoon at the Museum of Jewish Heritage, which serves as a living memorial to the Holocaust. Explore Jewish history, culture and experience through audio and video testimony of Holocaust survivors, Judaica, Nazi propaganda, and other visual materials. The museum also offers stunning views of New York Harbor, including the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island. Take a moment to reflect on your visit in the Garden of Stones, a peaceful outdoor installation by artist Andy Goldsworthy. Nicholas Roerich Museum 319 West 107th Street New York, NY 10025 roerich.org Take a short stroll down Riverside Drive or Broadway to enjoy the quietly spiritual paintings by Russian artist Nicholas Roerich, displayed in a historic house museum setting. The easy distance and small size of the Roerich Museum make an easy place to walk from campus. If you’re looking for some low-key evening entertainment, check out their calendar of free concerts and poetry readings. The Paley Center for Media 25 W 52nd Street (between 5th and 6th Avenues) New York, NY 10019 paleycenter.org The Paley Center for media is a museum dedicated to television, radio, and film, examining the intersections between media society. Visit and watch any piece of media from its seemingly limitless collection of television and radio shows, commercials, news broadcasts, performing arts programs, and more. Before you go, check their calendar to see what’s playing in their theaters—maybe a David Bowie performance, Jim Henson’s work, or the short films from Saturday Night Live. Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture 515 Malcolm X Boulevard (at 135th Street) New York, NY 10037 nypl.org/locations/schomburg Explore the richness of global Black history, arts, and culture through the Schomburg Center’s exhibitions and dynamic public programs, including live music, film screenings, discussions, and more. One of the New York Public Library’s research libraries, it was initially established in 1925 as the Division of Negro Literature, History and Prints with the collections of Arturo Alfonso Schomburg, a Puerto Rican-born Black scholar and bibliophile. Studio Museum in Harlem (Temporarily Closed) 429 West 127th Street New York, NY 10027 studiomuseum.org The Studio Museum in Harlem has been a hub for artists of African descent and work inspired and influenced by Black culture since its founding in 1968. Its home on 125th Street is currently being rebuilt from the ground up. In the meantime, you can still engage with issues in contemporary art and black culture through their wide-ranging programs and exhibitions at their temporary space Studio Museum 127 and at partner sites around Harlem and the rest of the city. Blank item Accordion Content American Folk Art Museum 2 Lincoln Square (Columbus Avenue at 66th Street) New York, NY 10023 folkartmuseum.org Delight yourself with authentic, inspired, unconventional, and compelling works by self-taught artists from four centuries across the globe. The American Folk Art Museum is just a short trip down to 66th Street, across from Lincoln Center. Behind its unassuming facade you’ll find a diverse lineup of exhibitions and programs, including live music, film screenings, talks, and more. Asia Society Museum 725 Park Avenue (between E 70th and 71st Streets) New York, NY 10021 asiasociety.org/museum Savor Asia Society’s intimate and diverse collection of both traditional and contemporary Asian and Asian-American art. With artworks from over a dozen countries spanning an astonishing 3,100 years, you are sure to find inspiration. Enjoy a free guided tour, or take advantage of their Friday late-night hours for a memorable evening out. Center for Brooklyn History (Temporarily Closed) 128 Pierrepont Street (at Clinton Street) Brooklyn, NY 11201 brooklynhistory.org The Center for Brooklyn History (formerly Brooklyn Historical Society) has been a cultural hub for civic dialogue and community outreach since 1863. Located in Brooklyn Heights and housed in a magnificent landmark building designed by George Browne Post, Brooklyn Historical Society has a long history of thoughtful engagement and community outreach. Caribbean Cultural Center African Diaspora Institute (Temporarily Closed) 120 East 125th Street (between Park Ave and Lexington Ave) New York, NY 10035 cccadi.org Connect to Caribbean culture both past and present at CCCADI, where you can enjoy music, dance, and art from renowned artists as well as emerging artists from the local community. Dedicated to advancing cultural equity and social justice for African descendent communities, CCCADI explores the effects of the African Diaspora and makes invisible histories visible. Goethe-Institut 30 Irving Place New York, NY 10003 goethe.de/ins/us/en/sta/ney/uun.html A cultural center for all things German, the Goethe-Institut offers everything from language lessons to jazz concerts to readings of contemporary literature. In addition to housing a film archive and a library of art, literature, and film, the Goethe-Institut also offers many off-site arts events. Check their website to find upcoming events, and treat the Teutonophile in you with a German film series, art exhibition, music concert, or theater performance. Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum West 46th Street & 12th Avenue (Pier 86) New York, NY 10036 intrepidmuseum.org Did you ever dream of sailing the open seas, piloting a supersonic jet, or blasting into outer space? Reconnect to those childhood aspirations at the Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum, where you can explore the legendary aircraft carrier Intrepid, the space shuttle Enterprise, the world’s fastest jets, and a guided missile submarine. Dedicated to promoting awareness and understanding of history, science, and service, the museum’s interactive exhibitions will foster a new appreciation of American innovation. The Jewish Museum 1109 5th Avenue (at 92nd Street) New York, NY 10128 thejewishmuseum.org Take a deep dive into Jewish art, history, and culture with the Jewish Museum’s stunning collection of nearly 30,000 works of art, ceremonial objects, artifacts, and media reflecting the global Jewish experience over more than 4,000 years. Housed in the historic Warburg mansion, the museum offers education programs for people of all backgrounds, from talks and lectures, to performances, to hands-on art making and more. Works from Marc Chagall, Man Ray, Eva Hesse, and Eleanor Antin are the crown jewels of the museum’s collection of paintings, sculptures, drawings, and photographs. The Morgan Library & Museum 225 Madison Avenue (between 36th and 37th Streets) New York, NY 10016 themorgan.org Immerse yourself in a world of rare manuscripts, musical scores, and examples of fine bookbinding. Always on display is the Gutenberg Bible, the book that ushered in the age of printed books in the West, and rotating exhibitions present wonders such as the only extant manuscript of Milton’s Paradise Lost, one of 23 copies of the original Declaration of Independence, and Mozart’s handwritten score of the Haffner Symphony. A museum, independent research library, musical venue, architectural landmark, and historic site, The Morgan offers unprecedented access to scholarly treasures. Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) 11 W 53rd Street (between 5th and 6th Avenues) New York, NY 10019 moma.org Expand your horizons and lose yourself in a world of new art and ideas. Newly renovated in 2019, MoMA has added even more gallery space to exhibit pieces from its collection of over 150,000 artworks, including masterpieces such as Monet’s Water Lilies, van Gogh’s The Starry Night, and Picasso’s Les Demoiselles d’Avignon. Not just a still-life experience, MoMA also offers over 1,000 film screenings per year, a summer concert series in their sculpture garden, and a drop-in studio space where visitors can participate in hands-on projects. Whether it’s showing you something you’ve never seen before, or showing you how to see something familiar in a new way, MoMA is always an eye- and mind-opening adventure. The Noguchi Museum 32-37 Vernon Boulevard Long Island City, NY 11106 noguchi.org Escape the din of city life at this intimate indoor/outdoor garden museum dedicated to the category-defying, cross-disciplinary works of Isamu Noguchi. With works in stone, metal, wood, and clay, as well as models for public projects and gardens, dance sets, and Akari Light sculptures, there is something for everyone. Noguchi preferred for his pieces to be displayed unaccompanied by titles or text, so you can visit and find your own meanings, or join one of the museum’s guided tours for a wealth of information on this polymath’s creations. Queens Museum New York City Building Flushing Meadows Corona Park Queens, NY 11368 queensmuseum.org A museum that embodies its overarching philosophy of openness, the Queens Museum is also a historic site, a community center, and an educational space for all. View the entirety of NYC all at once with its “Panorama of the City of New York,” a 9,335 square foot scale model of the city’s 320 square miles, with every street and park and 895,000 buildings represented. Situated in the famous NYC building that housed the U.N.’s General Assembly from 1946-1952, the Queens museum is steeped in local and international history. After you take in the museum’s current exhibition offerings, enjoy a picnic under the crape myrtle trees on their extended outdoor seating area, integrated with Flushing Meadows Corona Park. Socrates Sculpture Park 32-01 Vernon Boulevard at Broadway Long Island City, NY 11106 socratessculpturepark.org Find rejuvenation at the Socrates Sculpture Park, a cultural anchor in Queens that displays topical exhibitions of large-scale contemporary public art. Formerly an illegal dumpsite, the scenic 5-acre waterfront landscape is a testament to the reclamation, revitalization, and creative expression that is possible when artists and community members join forces. As the vast majority of the sculptures and multimedia installations exhibited at Socrates are built on-site, visitors have the unique opportunity to witness the art-making process, kindling an appreciation for this labor-intensive work and encouraging interaction between artists, artworks, and the public. The Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Gallery Lenfest Center for the Arts 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 wallach.columbia.edu Connect with your fellow students at the Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery, Columbia’s premier visual arts space. Located in the dynamic new Lenfest Center for the Arts, the Wallach presents projects that are organized by graduate students and faculty at Columbia. These exhibitions focus on the contemporary artists of our campus and communities and offer new scholarship on University special collections, offering diverse approaches to the arts and advancing Columbia’s historical, critical, and creative engagement with visual media. Photo: Columbia Students view Van Gogh's Starry Night at the MoMA as part of a Columbia Night event | Credit: Fadi Kheir For Faculty & Staff for students and faculty The Metropolitan Museum of Art & The Cloisters In addition to their participation in Passport to Museums, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Cloisters also provide free admission to Columbia University faculty who present a current CUID at the admission desk. Free admission is available only to the faculty member (does not extend to family members or guests). Visit Website for students, faculty, and staff El Museo del Barrio As a current Columbia University student, faculty, or staff member, you and a guest will receive free admission to the galleries when you present your valid CUID at El Museo. Visit website for faculty: class visits ArtsLink [paused] Complement your curriculum with vibrant arts experiences around New York City. ArtsLink is a concierge service for University faculty through which our team can help arrange group orders and manage the logistics of outings to performances, exhibitions, or other arts events around the city. [ArtsLink is paused in accordance with Columbia University's current COVID guidance for off-campus group gatherings.] Stay Up to Date on the Latest Events and Ticket Info © 2022 Columbia University Arts Initiative Arts Initiative at Columbia University 202 Dodge Hall, MC 1801 New York, New York 10027 (212) 851-9574 artsinitiative@columbia.edu The Ticket and Information Center is closed for summer break, and will reopen in fall 2022. © 2022 Columbia University Arts Initiative