Info for × News Media Inquiries Events Submit an Arts Event Video Replay: 2020 – 2021 Events About Mission & History Prospective Students Visit Us Venues and Studios Opportunities Contact Accessibility Climate & Inclusion Resources Feedback Committee Programs View All Courses Princeton Atelier Creative Writing Dance Music Theater Theater Visual Arts Fellowships People Faculty Fellows Staff Alumni Students Lewis Center Student Advisors Search About Climate & Inclusion Programs People Events News Contact Us Facebook Twitter Google Instagram Search × Current Students View All Courses Funding & Awards Find a Student Advisor Passport to the Arts Prospective Students The Arts @ Princeton Why Study the Arts? Visit Campus Apply Alumni News & Networking Alumni POV Artists Fellowships Visitors Directions Venues and Studios Media / Press Media Inquiries General Information Directory Subscribe to Email Updates Follow @Princeton Arts Facebook Twitter Google Instagram × Programs Show Menu × Dance About Dance at Princeton People Courses Performance Opportunities for Students 2021-22 Performance Season Co-Curricular Dance Classes Certificate Information & Requirements Prospective Students Caroline Hearst Choreographers-in-Residence Past Dance Performances & Events Dance News Dance Events "Answer questions by moving." — Susan Marshall The Program in Dance welcomes all students to engage and experiment with dance. At the core of the program is the belief that dance fosters an integration of mind and body that allows for a greater connection to ourselves and our communities. To that end, we work to increase and expand the University’s exposure to and appreciation of dance through practice, performance, and critical conversation. The program provides a depth, diversity, and flexibility of offerings that nurture beginners and challenge pre-professionals. While pursuing a liberal arts education, students have the opportunity to undertake demanding courses with professional choreographers, dancers, interdisciplinary artists, and scholars. The curriculum emphasizes expansive, rigorous training and the creation of original works of choreography, performance, and academic analysis. We support multiple performance opportunities each year, ranging from productions in the Roger S. Berlind Theatre and the Hearst Dance Theater, with choreography by faculty and guests, to site-specific interdisciplinary thesis projects and independent experimental work. Students with a special interest or career aspirations in dance can choose to earn a program certificate. Learn more about Program in Dance faculty, news, events, & courses. Upcoming dance events There are no upcoming events scheduled. Learn more about this year’s performance season and weekly co-curricular class offerings. DANCE NEWS May 24, 2022 Lewis Center for the Arts Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Read More > May 18, 2022 A Year of Returning In-Person to Stages, Studios, Galleries, and Screening Rooms Read More > May 13, 2022 Lewis Center for the Arts’ Program in Dance announces the next round of Caroline Hearst Choreographers-in-Residence Read More > Apr 28, 2022 Lewis Center for the Arts awards over $152,000 for summer projects in the arts to 57 Princeton students Read More > Read more dance news FEATURED DANCE Videos PRINCETON DANCE FESTIVAL REIMAGINED The Making of Princeton Dance Festival Reimagined Learn how Princeton’s Program in Dance reimagined its annual Princeton Dance Festival for a socially distanced world during a global pandemic with the help of faculty, choreographers, and participating students living throughout the United States and abroad. Learn more about Princeton Dance Festival Reimagined, presented November 23, December 3, 4 + 5, 2020. View the Programs for Princeton Dance Festival Reimagined » Questions? For more information about the Program in Dance, please contact Program Associate Cindy Rosenfeld at 609-258-3017 or cr17@princeton.edu, or consult a directory of program staff. Climate & Inclusion Learn more about the Lewis Center for the Arts' efforts on addressing Climate & Inclusion. Receive Lewis Center Events & News Updates Lewis Arts Complex / 122 Alexander Street Program In Visual Arts / 185 Nassau Street Program In Creative Writing / 6 New South 609.258.1500 lewiscenter@princeton.edu Information For ... Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Artists Media / Press Visitors Opportunities Partnerships & Support Fellowships for Artists Funding for Princeton Students Career Advising & Mentorship High School Contests Post an Event to our Calendar Follow Us Facebook Twitter Google Instagram © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University