Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation ARTS About Us Welcome Georgia Tech Arts Staff and Contact information Arts Advisory Board Faculty Insight Group Subscribe to the Digital Newsletter Ferst Center Box Office Directions and Parking Facility Rental Accessibility Group Sales Experience Georgia Tech Arts Events Events at the Ferst Center Visual Art on Campus Virtual Events TECHnically Creative Ticket Buzz and Other Discounts Get Creative Contact Us Tickets Donate Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About Us Ferst Center Facility Rental Rental Overview Ferst Center for the Arts The Ferst Center for the Arts, located on the campus of Georgia Tech, is a 950-seat theater. New renovations make this the ideal venue for performances, films, lectures, conferences, and competitions. Recent renovations in the theater include all-new seats, additional areas for accessible seating, and fresh paint, aisle lighting, and carpeting. The Ferst Center’s renovated lobby is perfect for your next party, reception, smaller lectures, luncheons, and meetings. Access general information on renting the Ferst Center. View Ferst Center Technical Specifications. Rental Process: Please note that rental requests must be submitted at least two weeks in advance of your event. Availability for the theater and lobbies is often limited. Some private and student events do not appear on the list of shows at the Ferst. In order to determine availability, please submit the online rental request form. 1. To request use of the Ferst Center theater or lobby, fill out the public rental request form. Campus departments and Georgia Tech students should use the campus rental request form and review additional information below. 2. An event coordinator will contact you to discuss your date within two business days of your request. 3. A pre-production meeting will be set up with you to discuss event details, schedule, and logistics, in order to create a comprehensive event estimate. 4. A contract will be emailed to you. You must sign and return the contract along with the following: - Proof of Insurance - Ticket Set-Up Form, if applicable - 501(c)3 or other non-profit determination letter, if applicable - Deposit of 25% rental fee & technical fees estimate 5. Two weeks before the event date, the remainder of the rental fee and technical fees estimate is due. 6. You will receive a final settlement invoice within 10 business days of the event. 7. Once the invoice is approved, payment will be received within 30 days when applicable. Catering When renting the facility, you must use an approved Georgia Tech Caterer for all of your food and drink needs. Georgia Tech Departments and Student Organizations Campus Departments Campus departments are welcome to present lectures, meetings, receptions, and events of all kinds in the Ferst Center for the Arts. Academic events may qualify for free rent, but this status must be confirmed with the event coordinator when setting up the contract for the event. All departments must pay for all other costs associated with using the Ferst Center, including but not limited to required labor, equipment, custodial, set-up, etc. These expenses may not be reimbursed by an outside entity when the department is receiving internal space rental rates. Please call the event coordinator at 404-385-4684 to check the availability of your date. Student Organizations Georgia Tech student organizations are welcome to present events in the Ferst Center. Students are encouraged to speak with the event coordinator at 404-385-4684 to understand all the costs, requirements, and expectations of presenting an event at the Ferst Center. In order to receive student group rates, the student organization must be the presenter of the event and listed in this manner on any advertisement of tickets for the event. Student organizations cannot permit off-campus organizations to use the Ferst Center by requesting usage through the student organization, and they cannot be reimbursed for expenses by an outside entity. Student organizations must provide a campus organizational representative who will be present at all pre-production meetings and at all times when using the facility, whether at rehearsal, performances, or related events. The student organization’s faculty advisor and student organization advisor must sign the Permit Agreement. Facebook Instagram Twitter Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Arts@Tech 349 Ferst Dr. Atlanta, GA 30332-0468 (404) 894-2787 info@arts.gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login