Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply New Students Checklist Congratulations on your acceptance to Columbia University School of the Arts! To help you get started with next steps, we’ve created the below guide to help you along the way. Don’t hesitate to reach out to [email protected] if you have any questions. We look forward to seeing you on campus! Activate Your UNI & Columbia Email Once your deposit has been processed by the School of the Arts Admissions Office, you should be able to set up and activate your UNI. To activate your UNI, proceed to the following website: http://cuit.columbia.edu/cuit/manage-my-uni. Click “Activate UNI or email.” On the next two pages, accept the “Computer Network and Use” policy and the policy outlining “Your Responsibility on the Columbia Network.” You will then be directed to a page asking that you enter your UNI. On this page, click next to “Don’t know your UNI” to begin the UNI activation process; then follow the instructions from there. Once your UNI is activated, you will be able to use your Columbia email. You should begin checking your Columbia email immediately and on a regular basis, as this is the School’s official means of communication with all students. ID Cards If you are new to Columbia you must submit a photo for your first Columbia University ID card. Details can be found here. Columbia ID cards will be distributed at the School-wide orientation, and not earlier. Emergency contact information must be entered in your Student Services Online (SSOL) account in order to receive your ID (details below). Emergency Contact Finally, it is urgent that each student provide an emergency contact for our database. You can update your emergency contact information in your Student Services Online (SSOL) account once the account is activated. Your emergency contact can be whoever you want the School of the Arts to reach out to in the case of an emergency. Immunization Requirements You will not be allowed to register for or attend classes until you provide documentation that you have received New York State’s required immunizations. Please be sure to provide your immunization documentation as early as possible to avoid a last minute rush. For more information, click here. For questions or concerns regarding your immunization documentation, call 212-854-7210 or email [email protected] Apply for Housing If you are considering Columbia housing, we recommend you apply as soon as possible, even if you’re not sure you’ll need it. Apply for Visa Apply for your I-20 student visa as soon as possible. Additionally, all incoming International Students should visit the ISSO website as soon as possible and review their Getting Started section. Pre-Arrival Tutorial The Office of University Life requires all incoming students to complete two online tutorials: Welcome to Columbia and Sexual Assault Prevention for Graduate Students/Undergraduates Part 1. As a reminder, you must complete both tutorials before arriving on campus. These tutorials are an important foundation to your membership in the University community. The first is Welcome to Columbia, which covers many resources available at Columbia as well as policies on important topics including community citizenship and health and wellness. The second tutorial, called Sexual Assault Prevention for Graduate Students/Undergraduates Part 1, focuses on one of our core community values - sexual respect - and shares essential information about Columbia’s gender-based misconduct prevention and response. Please note you only have to complete Sexual Assault Prevention for Graduate Students/Undergraduates Part 1. You can access these tutorials by clicking on the University Life website here. If you have any questions about the tutorials or require any assistance, please see the FAQ section on the University Life website and reach out to [email protected]. Protection of Minors Training Because so many School of the Arts students may work with minors at some point during their time at the school, we are requiring all students to take the online protection of minors training before orientation. This information will be sent to your Columbia email address in August. For more information, visit the University’s Protection of Minors at Columbia information page. You must complete this approximately 30 minute online training in order to receive your Columbia University ID card. Disability Self-Identification If you have a disability that may require accommodation, please contact Disability Services, (212) 854-2388 (Voice/ TTY), fax (212) 854-3448, or email [email protected] as early as possible. For a Disability Access Map: http:// www.columbia.edu/files/columbia/content/ accessibilitymap2014.pdf Financing U.S. citizens and permanent residents: If you wish to be considered for federal loans and work study, file a FAFSA, if you have not done so already; please note that there are separate financing guidelines for international students. All applicants must file the School of the Arts Financial Aid Application to be considered for institutional scholarships. Stay in Touch Be sure to check your email for information, including important pre-arrival requirements, from the Student Affairs. Please notify Student Affairs at (212) 851-0248 or at [email protected] if your email and/or mailing address change. Important Dates Mandatory Orientation Week begins Monday, August 29, 2022 Classes begin Tuesday, September 6, 2022 For academic Program specific orientation events, contact your Program for more information regarding dates. You will receive more information about Orientation, as well as course and registration information, from your Program and Student Affairs this summer. Academic Calendar Visit and bookmark the Academic Calendar for all Academic Dates, Holidays and Registration Dates. News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University