Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > Facilities: Labs, Galleries & Collections Facilities: Labs, Galleries & Collections Facilities: Labs, Galleries & Collections Centers The Henry Kendall College of Arts and Sciences has many research labs and collections that are used for faculty and student research. From examining our fossil collections to analyzing the effects of trauma, our students and professors work together to ask the tough questions and seek the answers. Our facilities allow students to practice their craft in a learning environment. Our art gallery and performance spaces provide a place for students and visiting artists to showcase their talent. Audiences can experience an intimate and versatile black box theatre or the state-of-the-art Gussman Concert Hall with seating for 635 people. The TU Alexandre Hogue Gallery serves as the chief focal point for the university’s engagement with the visual arts. Used year-round for the exhibition of arts, crafts, performance art and special events, the gallery offers exhibitions of historical, global and multicultural significance. It’s also the site of the annual Gussman Student Art Exhibition. Anthropology Lab work and access to cutting edge equipment is an integral part of anthropological research conducted at TU. Our labs, run by faculty members, include microscopes and other equipment for the analyses of stone stools, ceramics and bones, as well as store a wide range of original anthropological material. In addition, the anthropology department houses several joint facilities and collections, not related to any specific department member. These facilities house state of the art equipment available for research and teaching. The availability of such equipment makes the TU anthropology department unique among other anthropology departments in the region. Learn more. Human Ecology Lab Zooarchaeological and Paleocology Lab Lithic Microwear and Technology Lab Historical Archaeology and Heritage Studies Lab Paleoanthropology and Human Osteology Collection Donald O. Henry Near Eastern Lithic Artifacts Collection Surface Metrology and Tribology Facility Don R. Dickson Lithic Comparative Collection Art, Design and Art History The School of Art, Design and Art History features state-of-the-art labs and studio spaces in an historic building at the center of campus. Students routinely use our three digital labs to design, animate and realize their ideas, as well as a large-format printer that is available for special projects. Drawing, painting and printmaking studios allow students to explore media specific and multi-media projects. With the largest kiln in the state of Oklahoma, studios in ceramics and sculpture, and a partnership with Fab Lab Tulsa, students in the School of Art can create anything they can imagine. Learn more. Alexandre Hogue Gallery Third Floor Design Henry Zarrow Center for Art & Education Psychology Students are encouraged to pursue research in collaboration with faculty to develop their skills and gain experience. In our state of the art laboratories and interdisciplinary institutes, psychology faculty conduct research in a wide variety of areas such as personality influences on workplace accomplishment, personality assessment, treatment and prevention of trauma and its effects, reducing the effects of occupational stress and exploring factors that can influence one’s perception of pain. From undergraduates to doctoral students, there is place for you to not only research but also publish your findings. Explore your many research opportunities. Learn more. Exposure, Relaxation, & Rescripting Therapy (ERRT) Institute for Biochemical and Psychological Study of Individual Differences Individual Differences Lab Psychophysiology Laboratory for Affective Neuroscience (PLAN) Study of the Prevention, Adjustment, and Resilience to Trauma and Adversity (SPARTA) Teams, Attitudes & Climates Lab (TACL) Treatment & Assessment Center for Traumatic Stress (TACTS) Tulsa’s Institute for Trauma, Adversity & Injustice (TITAN) The Trauma Research, Assessment, Prevention, and Treatment Center (TRAPT) True Blue Neighbors Behavioral Health Clinic Media Studies Housed in the Department of Media Studies is the TUTV Media Lab, a student-run media collaborative with a weekly studio program, podcasts and opportunities for students to create their own project ideas using media. This includes three studios: two for video production and a podcast studio. Learn more. Music & Theatre The University of Tulsa offers students the opportunity to participate in an exciting and varied season of plays, musicals, concerts and operas, which are housed in first-rate facilities that rank with the very best in the Southwest. Learn more. Lorton Performance Center Kendall Hall Chapman Theatre Theatre II Tyrrell Hall Tyrrell Hall is home to six state-of-the-art multimedia classrooms. Envisioned as a teaching laboratory, Tyrrell offers a place where faculty can experiment with technology and explore how it might enhance and extend classroom interactions both near and far. Two classrooms accommodate small seminars of 10-15 students; two classrooms are suited to classes with 18-20 students; one classroom accommodates 30 students; and the Ellen G. Adelson Auditorium will seat 108. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT