Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Art Undergraduate Programs Alumni Illuminating Black History Self-Discovery Photo Essay: Artists at TU > School of Art, Design and Art History > Art Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/k3-0hXLYx40 ART, DESIGN & ART HISTORY Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Art Scholarship Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Facilities Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information The School of Art offers rigorous training in Art, Design, Art History and Arts Management. The study of the arts encourages students to approach art from multiple perspectives, and their art is rooted in contemporary discourses on art and history. State-of-the-art facilities and engaged professors embolden students to develop and realize their visions. We attract an array of regional and national artists and scholars to campus to help students discuss, critique and cultivate their work. Through strong partnerships with local museums and galleries, students create advertising campaigns, participate in exhibitions and pursue rewarding internships. Students in the School of Art participate in a dynamic and collaborative program focused on exploring, creating and analyzing art and its practices. We offer concentrations in art history, digital art, graphic design, painting, photography and printmaking, while also encouraging students to work across varying media. The interdisciplinary Arts Management program is housed at the School of Art. Small class sizes foster close relationships with students and professors, and together, students’ vision becomes art. Program Objectives ART, B.A., STUDIO ART SPECIALIZATION Students who complete the undergraduate program in studio art will: Demonstrate conceptual and technical proficiency within one or more aspect of the visual arts. Exhibit evidence of professionalism by developing a portfolio(of artwork or writing samples), resume and artist statement, locating their own work within historical and contemporary contexts. ART, B.A., ART HISTORY SPECIALIZATION Students who complete the undergraduate program in art history will: Demonstrate knowledge of major monuments and artists in their specific cultural-historical context and apply that knowledge to specific art historical problems (e.g., what makes a work of art meaningful or worthy of study). Demonstrate sound research, intellectual analysis of source material, critical thinking, and effective writing and speaking skills. ART, B.F.A., BACHELOR OF FINE ARTS IN ART Students who complete the undergraduate program in fine arts will: Demonstrate high level of conceptual and technical competency within at least one area of emphasis. Exhibit evidence of professionalism by developing a cohesive body of work, resume and artist statement, demonstrating the ability to apply historical and contemporary contexts to their own practice. Successful execution of final project or exhibition, showing evidence of stylistic and conceptual proficiency of chosen art form. Degree Options Art, B.F.A. Enables students to enter professional careers in art and to find their place in contemporary artistic practice. Art, Studio Art Specialization, B.A. Students have a chance to do course work in the visual arts as an integral part of a general liberal arts degree program. Students who earn a Bachelor of Arts with a specialization in studio art will attain a broad knowledge of artistic production and concepts that will prepare them for diverse career paths. Art, Art History Specialization, B.A. Offers the student general knowledge about art through the ages and the critical skills to interpret it. Art Minor Non-majors interested in learning more about art are encouraged to add it to their degree program as a minor. Art History Minor Non-majors interested in learning more about art history are encouraged to add it to their degree program as a minor. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT