Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences School of Art, Design and Art History Research Global Awards champion 918-631-2739 Phillips Hall, 102 Map Email https://youtu.be/k3-0hXLYx40 ART, DESIGN & ART HISTORY Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Art Scholarship Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Facilities Faculty News Contact the Department The School of Art, Design and Art History is a stimulating but intimate environment to practice, understand and advance the visual arts. With a solid grounding in traditional art-making practices, we encourage innovative and interdisciplinary approaches. In the program, students develop critical thinking tools, understand artistic practices and learn technical and creative skills necessary for work in the art professions or for graduate studies. Each student is challenged to develop the highest professional standards in concept, technique and presentation and we promote active involvement in the community as a part of good studio practice. Because of small classes and easy access to faculty, students will get individualized attention as they shape the program to their needs. The School of Art, Design and Art History offer courses in a variety of artistic media – painting, drawing, photography, graphic design, digital media, printmaking and ceramics – as well as in art history. Our purpose is to give all our students a firm grounding in the foundations of art, including drawing. The curriculum is designed to encourage students to explore a variety of media techniques, and later to specialize in one. Art on Campus and in the Community Visiting Artists and Professionals The School of Art, Design and Art History routinely brings nationally and regionally recognized artists to campus. These artists provide seminars on their methods and practice, work with students to develop their portfolios and provide critiques of student work. Recent visitors have included printmaker Tom Huck, curator and writer Jennifer Samet, Guggenheim Fellowship winner Jen Liu and sound artist Nathan Young. Field Trips Students from the The School of Art, Design and Art History travel to local and regional collections to see and experience art in person. Classes often meet at the Philbrook Museum of Art and the Gilcrease Museum, both located in Tulsa. Students travel to Oklahoma City and Crystal Bridges to hear lectures and see shows by artists like Marina Abramović and Kehinde Wiley. The School of Art takes an overnight field trip to a city where students explore collections, meet arts professionals and learn about new developments in the arts world. Previous trips have included: Dallas/Fort Worth, Kansas City, St. Louis and Chicago. Tulsa Arts District Located only minutes from TU’s campus, the Tulsa Arts District is a vibrant and growing arts scene. Museums, galleries, shops and pop-up exhibitions mingle in downtown Tulsa, and on the first Friday of every month, thousands come downtown to participate in the Art Crawl. The Zarrow Center for Arts and Education, a gallery operated by The University of Tulsa, is located in the Tulsa Arts District, affording students the opportunity to work and learn in a dynamic arts center. Professional Art Opportunities Third Floor Design Third Floor Design is a unique internship program that offers students in their junior and senior years the opportunity to work on professional design assignments. Founded in 1992, Third Floor Design program matches student designers with clients from the Tulsa non-profit community. Assignments range from print and digital design, annual reports, including the design of posters, logos, websites, videos, animation, letterheads, brochures, corporate identity items, T-shirts and magazines. Students leave the Third Floor Design internship program with professional-quality portfolios. For more information, please contact the advisor, Sarah Powell. Internships Students from the The School of Art, Design and Art History pursue a wide variety of internships in order to provide them with hands-on experience in their chosen field. Studio, Art History and Arts Management students routinely intern in the curatorial and education departments at the Philbrook Museum of Art, the Gilcrease Museum, the Tulsa Art Deco Museum; the Sherwin Miller Museum of Jewish Art and the Tulsa Artist Fellowship. Design students have interned at prestigious local and national firms such as RBMM, Brothers and Co., Byers Creative and Cubic Inc. Finally, the D’Arcy Internship has allowed students to work at galleries in the downtown Tulsa Arts District. Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Each year students in the The School of Art, Design and Art History enter work into the Gussman. A curator, gallerist, or prominent artist from outside Tulsa comes in to judge the work and award prizes. The Gussman provides students with experience in selecting and entering finished work in the fast-paced world of juried shows. Past jurors have included Ronda Kasl, BA’78) Metropolitan Museum Curator of Latin American Art. Student Life Stylus Stylus is a student-run journal featuring art, fiction, poetry and plays created at TU. Students in the School of Art can submit work for publication as well as participate in the production of the journal by serving on the editorial board. Stylus allows students to gain familiarity with the publishing world and showcase their work at the same time. Study Abroad The School of Art, Design and Art History encourages students to participate in Study Abroad programs in their junior or senior years, exposing students to different cultures. To offer students a wide choice, they can use the extraordinary resources of the Center for Global Education. To date, School of Art students have taken coursework in Japan, New Zealand, London, Edinburgh, Sydney, Turin, Florence, Rome, Venice and Cortona, Italy. Clubs The School of Art, Design and Art History has several clubs and organizations that provide ways for students to get involved on campus and in the community. Art Student Society and the Ceramics Club both hold yearly sales of work to fund student research and travel. The Photo Club partners with the Kendall Whittier GROW Garden to teach local children about photography. Scholarships School of Art Scholarship Application Undergraduate Awards A limited number of scholarships are available to majors. Students interested in applying for scholarship funding in Art History or Art should prepare a portfolio of artwork or writing samples to be submitted as part of their applications. Students must complete the online application and submit their portfolio no later than December 30th, before their first year at TU. Students must also take part in an interview with the director of the School of Art, either in person or on the phone; interviews will be scheduled by the chair. Students must be accepted to The University of Tulsa before they can be considered for an undergraduate award. Transfer students are eligible. The deadline is December 30th. Your application is not complete until a portfolio of work is received. For more details and to apply, see the Scholarship Application. Jerri Jones Research Award The School of Art, Design and Art History also offers the Jerri Jones Research Award to support travel, supplies, participation in summer workshops, conferences or other resources necessary for student research. Students must be enrolled in the School of Art at the time of application. Events Jun 24 First Summer Session Ends 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM More Jun 27 Second Summer Session Begins 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM More Jul 04 Independence Day 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM More View More Events 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT