Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > Life Long Learning: Unabridged Program Life Long Learning: Unabridged Program LIFE LONG LEARNING Life Long Learning Courses Contact Life Long Learning As a part of TU’s Continuing Education Network, Kendall College of Arts and Sciences promotes both personal and professional enrichment opportunities. Our courses act as a community outreach program to educate and enrich the minds of the greater Tulsa area. The Unabridged program offers anyone with an inquiring mind the unique opportunity to audit rewarding undergraduate classes at TU but at a fraction of the standard tuition. Interested students will experience our traditional academic environment, our intimate classroom organizations and the invaluable mentorship of our university’s world-renowned professors. If you have lifelong scholarly aspirations, this may be the perfect experience for you. Since a course is audited, no credits or transcripts are recorded, and no tests or papers are required. An aspiring scholar need only enroll, attend the class, listen to discussions (participation is controlled by the instructor), complete the readings and enjoy! In the side menu, you will find a list of courses that are offered for unabridged students. They will be published separately from the regular schedule of courses. The list will be updated each semester. Students should not contact faculty members directly to ask permission to enroll in their courses. Unabridged students will be allowed to enroll once traditional degree seeking students have enrolled. Enrollment Students wanting to enroll should come to the Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Advising office in Chapman Hall, Suite 111 to complete or turn in a completed enrollment form. The coordinator will check the course to make sure there are seats available. You will be given a course pass to give to the professor for temporary admittance. Official enrollment will not occurred until the second week of class to allow for traditional student movement. An email confirmation will be sent to the student and instructor when enrollment has occurred. Cost $500.00 per course. Lab fees may also apply 10% Discount on course for 65 years of age and older 10% Discount on course for TU Alumni Docents with Gilcrease and Philbrook Museums may qualify for discounted rates. Once enrolled, students will be billed by the University. Refunds If you withdraw from the course(s), notification must be received in writing, email, telephone or in-person. A refund will not be issued if the notification is received or made after the 2nd week of class. Refunds will not be issued for non-attendance or the inability to complete the course. Course Transfer Students may transfer a course registration into another course if done before the 2nd week of class. If you fail to attend the class you transferred into, you forfeit the full course tuition. Waitlist If a class is full, you may select to “join waitlist.” A registration form will need to be completed and will be held in our office. If a seat becomes available before the end of the 2nd week, you will be contacted to see if you are still interested in taking the course. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT