Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply Alumnus ektor garcia '16 in First Solo Exhibit, 'Oax.D.F.L.A.N.O.H.K' Read more Office of Alumni Affairs Benefits and Services Alumni Profiles Alumni Newsletter Archive EXPLORE Office of Alumni Affairs A Welcome Message from Laila Maher Dean of Student and Alumni Affairs After graduation, the Office of Alumni Affairs provides more than 7000 alumni artists, creators, and leaders with meaningful opportunities to stay connected with the School of the Arts, the Columbia Alumni Association (CAA), and one another through alumni programming, benefits, a monthly newsletter, and collaborations with CAA Arts Access. The Artists’ Resource Center (ARC), also part of our Office, is a portal containing specially curated funding opportunities and career resources for students and alumni at the Columbia University School of the Arts. Available exclusively to School of the Arts students and alumni, the ARC is host to a database of more than 1,100 grants, scholarships, residencies, and other funding opportunities for artists. The ARC also contains resources for professional artists, from financial and legal services to grantwriting tips and information about joining guilds and unions. We are the best place to go when you’re not sure what to do or whom to ask your question. Ultimately, the most important thing we do is support and advocate for our students during their time at the School and into their lives as alumni. Alumni News Theatre Ito Aghayere '12 Plays Young Guinan in ‘Star Trek: Picard’ Ito Aghayere '12 Plays Young Guinan in ‘Star Trek: Picard’ May 19, 2022 Acting alumna Ito Aghayere ’12 plays Young Guinan in Star Trek: Picard. The role of Guinan was originated by Whoopi Goldberg who would often share the screen with Patrick Stewart’s character. Now, in this series, Aghayere takes over the role as the younger version of Goldberg’s character. read more Film Alumni Come Together to Establish the Endowed Bobby Kashif Cox '12 Memorial Scholarship Alumni Come Together to Establish the Endowed Bobby Kashif Cox '12 Memorial Scholarship May 17, 2022 Screenwriting alumnus Bobby Kashif Cox '12 tragically lost his life to colon cancer in 2017 at the age of 33. During his time in the Film MFA program at the School of the Arts, Cox touched many lives. His tight-knit group of classmates remember him in particular for his joy and perseverance. read more Visual Arts American Art Abounding: Columbia Artists Stand Out at the 80th Whitney Biennial American Art Abounding: Columbia Artists Stand Out at the 80th Whitney Biennial May 6, 2022 As a celebration of contemporary American art, the Whitney Biennial is the longest-running exhibition of its kind. This 80th edition accounts for the multifarious politics, precarity, and beauty of the present moment. The exhibition is open to the public, and will run until September 2022. read more Writing Alumna E.J. Koh '13 Joins the Writers Room Behind Apple TV+'s 'Pachinko' Alumna E.J. Koh '13 Joins the Writers Room Behind Apple TV+'s 'Pachinko' May 11, 2022 Pachinko is an adaptation of Min Jin Lee’s bestselling novel of the same name. The book is a sweeping saga that chronicles the hopes and dreams of a Korean immigrant family across four generations as they leave their homeland in an indomitable quest to survive and thrive. read more Sound Arts Alumnus Nolan Lem '15 Featured in Solo Show Alumnus Nolan Lem '15 Featured in Solo Show April 5, 2022 Sound Art alumnus Nolan Lem ‘15 is featured in a solo show, Surface Song, at Eks-Rummet Gallery in Copenhagen, Denmark. read more Announcements Update Your Information Connect to the Alumni Community Join our Facebook group Like our Facebook page Join us on LInkedIn Follow us on Twitter Alumni Stories Upcoming Events May 20 How to Gild an Eagle Lenfest Center for the Arts 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 (enter on 125th Street, west of Broadway) 2:30 PM Donna and Matt Walker face the impending foreclosure of their family store and inn when Lana Usman, an immigrant single mother, offers them a deal that gives them a chance to stay. How To Gild An Eagle is a play about what it takes to belong and what one must sacrifice to hang on to past legacies. read more June 2 Good Things Happen Lenfest Center for the Arts 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 (enter on 125th Street, west of Broadway) 2:30 PM A working class mother finds a bag of stolen money - more than she could ever hope to earn in her lifetime. But what does the average mom even do with that much cash? And how far will she stretch her moral compass if it means making her family’s wildest dreams come true? "Good Things Happen" is a nostalgic neo-noir chock full of blue collar crime, money laundering, VHS tapes, phonebook deliveries, manifestation, and pepperoni pizza. read more June 7 - 8 Women and the Silent Screen XI: Women, Cinema, and World Migration (Virtual) Online 12:00 AM Show-and-tells, panels, and roundtables on Asian-specific topics will stimulate discussions on parallels between the historical women who “pioneered” in national film industries and contemporary filmmakers and artists. Speakers will include Asia-based contemporary makers who are interested in historical issues and have worked in Asia and global regions. (Titles will be available to screen on Vimeo.) read more News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University