Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Search Global Health and Social Medicine Harvard Medical School Subscribe to our mailing list About About the Initiative Leadership Annual Reports Contact Events Marmor Artist-in-Residence Media Podcasts Publications Videos Resources Medical Humanities at Harvard Medical Humanities Links of Interest Project/Event Sponsorship Program Press Photos Donate For the love of baseball and music: a Boston Hope Music story Vaccine day was finally here, now literally music to his ears. Surprising Research on Loneliness Jeremy Noble's work on loneliness is feature in the Harvard Magazine Jan-Feb 2021 issue. Medical professionals turn to music making as a tonic It's necessary to know that you also need to heal The Power of Hope Rafael Campo celebrates HMS diversity and inclusion with commemorative poem Recent Publications Admissions Systole and Diastole, Strength and Openness The Best Medicine Pentito "Thinking Time": Doctor Envies Curlers What's the story? A guide for the clinician writer The Soul of a Patient: Lessons in Healing for Harvard Medical Students Teaching Physicians Not to Be Afraid of PoetryMore Project | Event Sponsorship Do you have an idea for a project or event that ties in nicely with the Arts and Humanities Initiative at Harvard Medical School? Is funding an obstacle? Then we may be able to help! The Arts and Humanities Initiative invites organized student groups at Harvard Medical School and Harvard School of Dental Medicine to submit an application requesting sponsorship. For more details, please click here. Past Events 2020 Apr 21 Join Lisa Gruenberg - My City of Dreams 6:00pm 2020 Mar 12 Palliative - a documentary screening 6:00pm More News Dr. Joel Katz Steps Down from Leading Internal Medicine Residency Program Surprising Research on LonelinessMore Kiss Me More | Industry Baby | good 4 u 0a009627057c0c96bc0b04fbd1e2b7ea Harvard Medical School and School of Dental Medicine Entering Class of 2021 parody of “Kiss Me More“ by Doja Cat ft. SZA, “Industry Baby” by Lil Nas X and Jack Harlow, and “good 4 u” by Olivia Rodrigo Not That Competent Not That Competent ft. Harvard Medical School & Harvard School of Dental Medicine (Britney Spears Parody) (2019). A music video parody of “Womanizer,” “Oops!... I Did It Again,” and “Stronger” by Britney Spears, produced and performed by the Harvard Medical School & Harvard School of Dental Medicine Class of 2022. Ready Not Ready Ready Not Ready ft. Harvard Medical School & Harvard School of Dental Medicine ("Sorry Not Sorry" Parody) (2017) by Demi Lovato, produced and performed by the Harvard Medical School & Harvard School of Dental Medicine It's Not a Zebra! It's Not a Zebra! ft. Harvard Medical School & Harvard School of Dental Medicine ("CAN'T STOP THE FEELING!" Parody) produced and performed by the Harvard Medical School & Harvard School of Dental Medicine Video Disclaimer Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement