Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Sociology Undergraduate Programs Alumni Using sociology in the workforce Research Data analysis for the social sciences > Department of Sociology > Sociology Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/MXpBJTo0pf8 SOCIOLOGY Sociology Undergraduate Programs Faculty News Contact the Department The sociology major may be combined with minors or second majors in just about any discipline. Some sociology majors are also part of the Honors Program. Sociology majors often choose to study abroad, where they may take up to 6 credit hours toward their sociology degree. Opportunities for internships are available for upper-level majors in a variety of community organizations. The sociology major offers both structure and flexibility. Students must take 15 credit hours of core subjects that emphasize methods, theory, and issues in the discipline. In addition, each student maps out a program of study that will satisfy the department’s requirements and provide the foundation for the student’s career aspirations. Program Objectives Students who complete the undergraduate program in sociology will develop the ability to: Think critically; write in a clear, organized and grammatical way; and make effective oral presentations. Demonstrate an understanding of the core ideas of sociology, such as social structure, institution, culture, ideology, identity, stratification, social change, status, norm and socialization. Evaluate forms of evidence used in social analysis; use both quantitative and qualitative methods; and demonstrate an understanding of ethical issues that arise in the course of research. Prepare for professional life after graduation from TU. Degree Options Sociology, B.S. Majors can designed a specific program of study to prepare for a career in social service, government, research, consulting, teaching or business, or graduate school. Sociology, B.A. Majors gain the ability to analyze society as a core component of anyone’s education and personal development. Sociology Minor For those interested in learning more about sociology are encouraged to add it to their degree program as a minor. Typical Four Year Schedule Because students’ individual needs vary, the following represents only one possible way of completing the sociology major in four years. For example, we work closely with students who study abroad to make sure they can fulfill the requirements for the major in a timely fashion. FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition & Argumentation First Seminar Mathematics course Introduction to Sociology Beginning Language I Beginning Language II Block I**—Aesthetic/Creative Block II—Historical/Social Freshman Experience Block III—Science SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Intermediate Language I Intermediate Language II Social Statistics Sociology elective General elective Block II—Historical/Social Block II—Historical/Social Block III—Science (with Lab) Block I—Aesthetic/Creative Block II—Historical/Social JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Sociological Theory Quantitative Social Research Qualitative Social Research Sociology elective Sociology elective Minor elective Sociology elective General elective Minor elective Internship SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Sociology elective Sociology elective Sociology elective Sociology elective Senior Project Minor elective Minor elective General elective General elective General elective * Actual programs vary depending upon college entrance exam scores in English, mathematics, and language. They also differ depending upon whether students engage in Internships or Study Abroad programs. ** The term “Block” denotes “general education” (or “distribution”) requirements. Entry Requirements A student wishing to declare sociology as a major must: Consult with the sociology department; and Do EITHER a. or b. Earn a grade of C or better in Soc 1033 (or a B in the equivalent course at another university); and earn grades no lower than C in Engl 1033 and Math 1083 at TU, with at least one of these grades being a B or better (or earn B’s in writing and math courses at another university; or earn credit for these or higher courses through AP/IB credits). Or obtain permission from the sociology department 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT