Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > TU alumnus brings music out of the concert hall and into the streets TU alumnus brings music out of the concert hall and into the streets March 17, 2022 During much of 2020 and 2021, one of the hardest hit sectors of the economy was the performing arts. Theaters, concert halls, studios – across the country and around the world, these spaces shut their doors and extinguished their lights in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, putting thousands of artists out of work and depriving audiences of the joys of live performance. In the midst of this dire situation, a dazzling new venture appeared in northeast Oklahoma: the Tulsa Peoples’ Orchestra (TPO). Founded in spring 2021 by Benjamin Ray, the TPO’s mission is to unite, grow and inspire the Tulsa community with and through music. The orchestra acts on this mission by performing not in concert halls but in informal community spaces, such as parks, squares and even city streets. Time to cello-brate Jeremy Wright One of the earliest musicians to join the TPO was University of Tulsa vocal performance alumnus Jeremy Wright (BM ’18), who describes himself as “a cellist in need of an ensemble. Ray’s passion project came along at exactly the right time for me, and I was thrilled to be a part of the TPO adventure.” As a Tulsan who wants to grow his city’s arts community in new and creative ways, Wright is “delighted that we can appeal both to seasoned classical music listeners as well as people who have never been to an orchestra concert.” In addition to playing cello with the orchestra, Wright serves as its peoples’ outreach officer. Drawing on his extensive network in the classical music community, such as singing with Tulsa Opera and at Trinity Episcopal Church, Wright focuses on recruiting new players, contacting venues to schedule performances, reaching out to local business to identify collaboration opportunities and spreading the word about the TPO throughout Tulsa and the region. His TU foundation These activities are empowered, in great measure, by Wright’s experiences being part of vocal ensembles during his TU student years. “By observing my professors’ work ethic and general attitude, I learned to cultivate a positive culture in groups.” The TPO in Tulsa’s Arts District One of those professors, Brady McElligott, recalls Wright’s talent and future promise: “When Jeremy first auditioned for the vocal faculty, we all immediately fell in love with his vocal instrument and his innate musicality — and then we discovered that he was also a cellist! We unanimously recommended him for one of the School of Music’s most prestigious scholarships at the time (a “Golden”), which he definitely deserved.” McElligott also is not surprised by his former student’s involvement in bringing the joy of music to Tulsans: “Given the interest and energy that Jeremy showed as a student regarding so many aspects of music and musical performance (including arranging and orchestration), I did not imagine he would ever be the type of person who would simply sit around and socialize after graduation. I expected him to organize something practical and useful, and his work with the TPO is exactly the type of community/music project I would have expected. I would not be shocked if he were to arrange and orchestrate much of the music the orchestra will perform!” Wright has also drawn on his TU foundation to help the TPO to grow through recruiting players and networking through his former professors. In fact, a handful of TU students joined the TPO in 2021, including Jacob Malone (trumpet), Megan Kesterson (oboe), Kyle Barker (trombone), and Emma Dawson, Cole Cribbs and Sam Sharrell (percussion). A breath of fresh air The TPO performing in summer 2021 in Tulsa’s Arts District While the TPO followed COVID-19 safety protocols for its indoor rehearsals, all its concerts were held outdoors. Indeed, for Wright, “music is that much more magical outside in nature. Our concerts were literally a breath of fresh air for our audiences. People made it clear to us that they missed hearing live music and wanted it to be part of their daily culture.” During its inaugural season, the TPO comprised 45 musicians, ranging in age from 18 all the way to 72. The orchestra is similarly inclusive when it comes to the repertoire – one might hear Beethoven and Star Wars in the same concert — and instruments. “Whereas orchestras typically do not allow saxophones, euphoniums or bass clarinets,” Wright explained, “we say if you are proficient in your instrument and share our passion, you’re welcome here!” The Tulsa Peoples’ Orchestra will launch its second season in May. Find all the dates and locations on Facebook (where you can also donate to the orchestra) and Instagram. And if you are a musician who’s seeking a welcoming community and opportunities to perform, send an email to tulsapeoplesorchestra@gmail.com. The TPO’s musicians also were thankful for the opportunity being part of the orchestra provided. For some, COVID-19 had meant not being able to perform publicly for over a year. A good number, too, were hobbyists who had not performed for many years. For them, said Wright, “it was very meaningful to provide a space where they could dust off their instruments and refresh their love of making music.” Season 2, here we come! TPO musicians The biggest lesson Wright and his fellow musicians learned from their first season was how important their project is to Tulsans. Drawing on this insight, in 2022, the TPO plans to deliver twice as many performances – including at this year’s Tulsa Mayfest — and collaborate even more with organizations and businesses across the city, as well as host a number of fundraising concerts. “We are also raising the bar in terms of quality by bringing in conductors and players from the Tulsa Symphony to work with different sections during our rehearsals,” Wright commented. “Being part of the TPO and helping it to grow reminds me every day that community is everything, and especially so during difficult times.” Does music inspire and delight you? If so, visit TU’s School of Music, where opportunities to learn and play abound for students from across the university, no matter which major they’re pursuing. Alumni, Arts & Sciences, Arts and Sciences, Featured, Music, News, Stories Benjamin Ray, Brady McElligott, Jeremy Wright, Tulsa Peoples' Orchestra 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT