Skip to content COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK Search for: Contact Us Support Us Arts Initiative at Columbia University Search for: Free & Discounted Tickets Performances Museums Movies Events Events Calendar Columbia Nights Morningside Lights Museum Exhibitions For Students Student Arts Grants Ticket Your Event Submit Your Event For Faculty ArtsLink About Mission & Team About the TIC Contact Us Support Us About the TIC About the TIC Get tickets at our on-campus box office, the Ticket and Information Center Photo: Columbia Students queue out the door of Lerner Lobby on opening day of On Sale at the TIC The Ticket and Information Center (TIC) is the Arts Initiative’s box office, located in the lobby of Lerner Hall. The TIC distributes more than 45,000 tickets each year to Broadway shows, Metropolitan Opera performances, student events, and more, providing countless Columbians affordable, convenient access to the rich cultural life of New York City. We accept cash, credit card, or check. [As of 5/7/22] The TIC is now closed for summer break and will reopen in Fall 2022. Discount Movie Vouchers Get discounted admission to many of New York City's leading movie theaters. Movie vouchers are available for purchase in-person at the Ticket and Information Center in the Lerner Hall lobby. Learn more On Sale at the TIC [paused] Discounted tickets to hundreds of off-campus arts events at the city's leading performance spaces including Broadway, Carnegie Hall, the Metropolitan Opera, New York City Ballet, the New York Philharmonic, and more. [On Sale at the TIC is paused in accordance with Columbia University's current COVID-19 guidance for off-campus group gatherings.] Student Events Discover a variety of student arts events and get tickets online or in-person at the TIC. Browse Events Stay Up to Date on the Latest Events and Ticket Info © 2022 Columbia University Arts Initiative Arts Initiative at Columbia University 202 Dodge Hall, MC 1801 New York, New York 10027 (212) 851-9574 artsinitiative@columbia.edu The Ticket and Information Center is closed for summer break, and will reopen in fall 2022. © 2022 Columbia University Arts Initiative