Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Mission and History Vice Provost for the Arts Our Staff Arts in Durham Support Duke Arts Academics Departments Art, Art History & Visual Studies Dance Music Theater Studies Concentrations, Minors & Certificates Cinematic Arts Creative Writing Documentary Studies Innovation & Entrepreneurship Theology and The Arts Graduate Arts Programs PhD/MA in Computational Media, Arts & Cultures MFA in Dance: Embodied Interdisciplinary Praxis MFA in Experimental and Documentary Arts PhD/MA in Music Composition Study Away Duke-In Programs Spaces & Places Arts Across Duke Map Nasher Museum of Art Duke Performances Center for Documentary Studies Full Frame Documentary Film Festival Power Plant Gallery Duke Chapel Sarah P. Duke Gardens Rubenstein Arts Center Mary Lou Williams Center for Black Culture Duke Arts Annex American Dance Festival Kenan Institute for Ethics Campus Gallery Spaces Campus Center Art Collection Opportunities For Faculty, Students & Staff Arts Project Residencies Support for Visiting Artists For Students Academic Advising in the Arts Creative Arts Student Teams (CASTs) Creative Arts Grants Leadership and Arts Policy Internship Grants The Robert E. Pristo Filmmaking Awards StudioDuke DEMAN Lounge Duke Arts Awards Benenson Awards in the Arts Louis Sudler Prize The Graywill Award Events & News Events All Arts Events DukeCreate Arts Workshops DEMAN Live Episodes University Box Office News & Stories All News Community Duke Entertainment, Media & Arts Network Student Arts Groups Mural Durham Artstigators Forum for Scholars & Publics Duke Initiatives in Theology & the Arts El Sistema USA Partnership Durham Medical Orchestra Duke University String School Toggle Search Search for: art and artists are essential Warning: It looks like JavaScript is currently disabled. Please be aware that some features of this website will not work as intended. Growing a culture for art at Duke The arts thrive at Duke. Academic programs, critically acclaimed organizations and visiting artists create connections between campus, the Durham community, and international thinkers, makers, and performers. Pictured above: Spring 2022 artist-in-residence Mario Moore at work in a painting studio in the Rubenstein Arts Center. Photo by Robert Zimmerman. The Office of the Vice-Provost for the Arts The Vice Provost for the Arts is charged with transforming the arts at Duke. This office works with academic, student and community arts programs to embed art into the mainstream Duke experience. learn more 0 34 Arts Degrees, Minors, and Certificates Undergraduate and graduate programs leverage the resources of a top research university 0 31 Visiting Artists supported in 2019–2020 Hosted by departments across Duke with our support 0 98 Total arts faculty Lead our culture of creative innovation Artists as Researchers Music Disrupting Classical Composition PhD student Brittany J. Green's latest orchestral work, “Against/Sharp,” explores the relationship between music and Black feminist theory. Visual Arts Tackling Climate Change Through Storytelling A Bass Connections team created a woven piece made with recycled and reused materials, depicting an interpretation of a graph predicting future scenarios of sea level rise. Dance Dancing Through STEAM Three Duke alumnae share how they split their time at Duke between rigorous science courses and a steadfast passion for dance. Visual Arts At the Intersection of Art and Science Clay Sanders, who received a PhD in civil engineering from Duke in 2020, currently has a painting depicting a dance rehearsal on display in the Rubenstein Arts Center. Upcoming Events Ok Arts Comic Book Collection - Clinic 1A & Eye Center Concourse May 2, 2022 — All Day Arts The Language of Trees - The Artwork of Bill Neville May 6, 2022 — All Day Visual and Creative Arts Raíces, Rutas, y Ritmos: The Influence of Latin American Music in North Carolina May 30, 2022 — 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM Featured Ciompi Presents: Invention and Discovery June 2, 2022 — 7:00 PM – 7:00 PM more arts events News View All Latest stories in the arts at Duke. Published by Duke Arts and around the web. Q&A with Max Brzezinski Ph.D. ’07, Author & Former Marketing Director, Carolina Soul Records Published April 24, 2022 Announcing the 2022 Benenson Award Winners Published April 23, 2022 Lee Edwards, MFA in Dance ’22: Cyclical Navigations: In the In Between Published April 22, 2022 Amari Jones, MFA in Dance ’22: Embodied Resonance Published April 22, 2022 People of Duke Arts Meet the people behind the arts at Duke and discover their inspirations, tips for finding community on campus, and more. Grammy-nominated jazz pianist Chris Pattishall returned to Durham, his hometown, as part of a yearlong residency with Duke Performances. Click to read more. Artist-in-residence Bijayini Sapathy led a community dance workshop ahead of the premiere of her new work “ABHIPSAA – a seeking,” co-commissioned by Duke Performances. Click to read more. Stephen Hayes, instructor of art, art history & visual studies, works with students in the Rubenstein Arts Center. Click to read more. Duke seniors María Zurita Ontiveros and Ash Jeffers are the creative team behind Medea, the first mainstage Theater Studies has produced with students at its helm. Click to read more. Only In Durham The creative community in the Triangle runs deep and shares an entrepreneurial spirit—helping to make Duke and Durham incredible places to study and experience the arts. arts in Durham View image in lightbox: View image in lightbox: View image in lightbox: View image in lightbox: View image in lightbox: View image in lightbox: follow the Arts at Duke Stay connected with the arts across campus, into Durham and beyond. Follow our feeds for event updates, behind-the-scenes content and more. @DukeArts A Curated Overview instagram (external link) facebook (external link) twitter (external link) @DukePerformances Live Performances instagram (external link) facebook (external link) twitter (external link) @DukeDeman Alumni Network instagram (external link) facebook (external link) @DukeCreate Free Workshops instagram (external link) Growing a culture for the arts at Duke. Sign up for our newsletter About Mission and History Vice Provost for the Arts Our Staff Arts in Durham Support Duke Arts Academics Departments Art, Art History & Visual Studies Dance Music Theater Studies Concentrations, Minors & Certificates Cinematic Arts Creative Writing Documentary Studies Innovation & Entrepreneurship Theology and The Arts Graduate Arts Programs PhD/MA in Computational Media, Arts & Cultures MFA in Dance: Embodied Interdisciplinary Praxis MFA in Experimental and Documentary Arts PhD/MA in Music Composition Study Away Duke-In Programs Spaces & Places Arts Across Duke Map Nasher Museum of Art Duke Performances Center for Documentary Studies Full Frame Documentary Film Festival Power Plant Gallery Duke Chapel Sarah P. Duke Gardens Rubenstein Arts Center Mary Lou Williams Center for Black Culture Duke Arts Annex American Dance Festival Kenan Institute for Ethics Campus Gallery Spaces Campus Center Art Collection Opportunities For Faculty, Students & Staff Arts Project Residencies Support for Visiting Artists For Students Academic Advising in the Arts Creative Arts Student Teams (CASTs) Creative Arts Grants Leadership and Arts Policy Internship Grants The Robert E. Pristo Filmmaking Awards StudioDuke DEMAN Lounge Duke Arts Awards Benenson Awards in the Arts Louis Sudler Prize The Graywill Award Events & News Events All Arts Events DukeCreate Arts Workshops DEMAN Live Episodes University Box Office News & Stories All News Community Duke Entertainment, Media & Arts Network Student Arts Groups Mural Durham Artstigators Forum for Scholars & Publics Duke Initiatives in Theology & the Arts El Sistema USA Partnership Durham Medical Orchestra Duke University String School Copyright © 2022 Duke University. All rights reserved.