Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Language and Literature Undergraduate Programs My TU Story TU Student with a Global Perspective Study Abroad Comfortable in the Uncomfortable > School of Language and Literature > Language and Literature Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/pntJfNqRxmI LANGUAGES & LITERATURE Language Undergraduate Programs Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information A degree in language and literature involves developing proficiency in a target language and a basic understanding of its linguistic structure. Students gain a deeper understanding of textual analysis and literary genres, styles and periods while acquiring greater knowledge and appreciation for other cultures. The School of Language and Literature currently offers instruction in nine languages. These include three romance languages—Spanish, French, and Portuguese—that account for hundreds of millions of native-speakers in the Americas and Africa as well as Europe. The most-spoken language on the planet, Mandarin Chinese, is the focus of a growing program with strong student interest. Enrollments continue to grow in Russian and German, and dedicated groups of students choose instruction in Hebrew, ancient Greek, and Latin. The School of Language and Literature produces successful alumni who obtain coveted positions in business, government, education and the most prestigious professional and graduate schools. A degree in a language and literature complements all other fields of study and makes a graduate more marketable. The student experience begins with small, student-centered language classes, continues with a study abroad experience and concludes with challenging advanced level courses in the language. Bachelor of arts degrees are available in French, German and Spanish. Students can also minor in French, German and Spanish. Language students are encouraged to have a second major. Program Objectives Students who complete the undergraduate program will: Demonstrate language skills (i.e., reading and listening comprehension, speaking, and writing) that aid in the communication and understanding among persons and groups of different linguistic and cultural backgrounds. Demonstrate critical thinking and creative insights in the disciplined study of cultural media (such as literature and film) and linguistics. Demonstrate fluency and coherence when presenting ideas in writing and in speech. Degree Options French, B.A. Designed to develop proficiency in a target language and a basic understanding of its linguistic structure through language and literature. German, B.A. Designed to develop proficiency in a target language and a basic understanding of its linguistic structure through language and literature. Spanish, B.A. Designed to develop proficiency in a target language and a basic understanding of its linguistic structure through language and literature. Chinese Minor Students are encouraged to add a language minor to their degree program as a minor. French Minor Students are encouraged to add a language minor to their degree program as a minor. German Minor Students are encouraged to add a language minor to their degree program as a minor. Spanish Minor Students are encouraged to add a language minor to their degree program as a minor. Typical Four Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition and Argumentation First Seminar First Year College Experience Contemporary Mathematics Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Block III - Scientific Investigation Beginning Spanish I Beginning Spanish II SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Liberal Arts and Preparation for Life after Graduation Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Intermediate Spanish I Block III - Scientific Investigation with lab Minor Intermediate Spanish II Elective Minor JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Composition in Spanish Study Abroad (upper division Spanish credits) Intro to Spanish Linguistics Latin American Cultures Minor SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Seminar in Latin American or Spanish Literature Special Topics in Spanish Minor Senior Project Elective Elective Elective Elective Elective Elective 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT