Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Economics Undergraduate Programs Research Funding public education Alumni TU Distinguished Alumnus: Phil Keeter > Department of Economics > Economics Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/nBJ0RZwChY8 ECONOMICS Economics Undergraduate Programs Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information The Department of Economics strives to awaken students’ passion for learning with a focus on economics. The program serves students from the Kendall College of Arts and Sciences, the Collins College of Business and the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences. Students may earn a B.S., B.A. or B.S.B.A. (Bachelor of Science in Business Administration) degree with a major in economics. Principles of Economics courses are also required of all Collins College of Business students, regardless of their major. Economics students can double major in finance, mathematics, political science, sociology or an engineering field. Many economics alumni advance to MBA or graduate programs while others attend law school or are hired in the private, public or nonprofit sectors. In addition to basic economics courses, students complete a series of mathematics and statistics classes before customizing their degree plan. All TU students must complete TU’s core curriculum and their college’s specific course requirements. These basic economics courses include microeconomics and macroeconomics, advanced theory classes, a session in the history of economic thought and a collection of higher level economics electives such as econometrics, game theory, economic policy analysis, health economics, growth theory, environmental and resource economics, monetary economics, economic development and international economics. Program Objectives Students who complete the undergraduate program will: Demonstrate technical competence. Develop their analytical abilities across a wide range of economic schools of thought. Awaken their passion for learning with a focus on economics. Degree Options Economics, B.A. Offers students basic economics, mathematics and statistics classes before allowing them to customize their degree plan. Economics, B.S. Offers students basic economics, mathematics and statistics classes before allowing them to customize their degree plan. Economics, B.S.B.A. For those interested in pursuing business and economics, students complete courses inside the business core as well as courses specific to the economics major. Offered by the Collins College of Business. Economics Minor Non-majors interested in learning more about history are encouraged to add it to their degree program as a minor. Typical Four Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition and Argumentation * First Seminar Mathematics with Applications † Basic Calculus Beginning Language I † † Beginning Language II Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry & Creative Expression Block II - Historical & Social Interpretation Freshman Experience Block III - Scientific Investigation SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Intermediate Language I Intermediate Language II Principles of Economics I Principles of Economics II Introduction to Statistics Block II - Historical & Social Interpretation Block II - Historical & Social Interpretation Block III - Scientific Investigation (lab) Block II - Historical & Social Interpretation Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry & Creative Experience JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Microeconomic Theory Microeconomic Theory Economics Elective Economics Elective Writing III Minor Elective Minor Elective General Elective General Elective General Elective SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER History of Economic Theory Economics Elective Minor Elective Minor Elective General Elective General Elective General Elective General Elective General Elective Senior Project General Elective * Based on college entrance exam scores in English, some students may be placed in Introduction to College Writing as a prerequisite course. † Based on college entrance exam scores in math or on the university math placement test, College Algebra may be a prerequisite for some. † † Placement at a higher level will be determined by college placement exams. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT