Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown Arts Institute Secondary Navigation Navigation About News Search Menu Site Navigation Home For Students & Faculty ARTS Courses Grants Student Council Film Hub Request Space Brown Arts Pass For Visitors Directions + Accessibility Spaces Upcoming Events In the Community Artist Development Grant Songwriting Workshop Events + Exhibitions 2021-2022 Highlights On View Past Event Archive Search Brown Arts Institute Date April 13, 2022 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email BAI Announces Re-Examining Conservation By Chira DelSesto The Brown Arts Institute and Creature Conserve are pleased to present Re-Examining Conservation: Questions at the Intersection of the Arts & Sciences, an exhibition and symposium inviting viewers to consider what successful conservation looks like. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] -- The Brown Arts Institute and Creature Conserve host Re-Examining Conservation, a three-day symposium inviting viewers to examine how, where, and why each of us may seek to establish “a biological balance” in our human-animal relationships. About the Exhibition Re-Examining Conservation is curated around a series of specific, targeted questions encouraging the viewer to re-examine what conservation is (or is not) from multiple perspectives. They include: What is the nature of the shared space we inhabit with animals? How do we tell the stories of conservation? What informs our understanding of what needs to be done to slow or reverse the tide of extinction? What questions should we be more persistent in asking about conservation? Each painting, poem, print, sculpture, video, and more raises the question: “what is conservation.” Each artist tackles the same challenge: how to visualize the complex relationships between humans and animals. The exhibition is on view in the Granoff Center’s Cohen and Atrium Galleries, 154 Angell Street, Providence, RI, through June 10, 2022, with an opening reception on Thursday, April 21 at 5:30pm. Curated by Creature Conserve Arts Curator Heather McMordie with support from Curatorial Scholars Haley Johnson & Lynsea Montanari. Creature Conserve is working in conjunction with Tomaquag Museum’s Indigenous Empowerment Network (IEN) in efforts to further amplify the voices of the Indigenous community in Rhode Island. Tomaquagmuseum.org/ien For more about the exhibition, including images of artwork for media use, visit this link: https://sites.google.com/brown.edu/reexaminingconservation/exhibition About the Symposium The three-day accompanying symposium brings together an incredible interdisciplinary roster of faculty, students, and guest artists exploring a wide variety of perspectives on ways that humans are brought to bear on our current relationships with animals. The symposium kicks off following the opening reception with an evening of performances featuring Ada Smailbegović (Department of English) and Thalia Field (Department of Literary Arts). The symposium continues on Friday with a day-long series of talks, conversations, and readings by an interdisciplinary group of Brown and RISD faculty affiliated with the campus Animal Studies group. Presenters include: Bathsheba Demuth (Department of History), David Frank (Department of Philosophy), Thangam Ravindranathan (Department of French and Francophone Studies), Iris Montero (Department of Hispanic Studies), Sheida Solemeini (BAI Visiting Artist Fellow), and others. Friday evening features a series of readings, starting with a keynote by Linda Hogan, influential and award-winning activist, teacher, and writer of fiction, poetry, and essays. Hogan will be followed by additional readings from Alberto Ríos, as well as Brown students. The symposium concludes on Saturday with a generative workshop for writers and visual artists interested in creating new work inspired and/or informed by science relevant to the conservation of animals and their habitats. Following a lecture by Creature Conserve Founder & Executive Director Dr. Lucy Spelman, artist Samantha Dempsey and writer Susan Tacent will lead a craft discussion and provide prompts through which participants will generate stories and artwork. Schedule at a Glance All activities take place at the Granoff Center for the Creative Arts, 154 Angell Street, Providence RI April 4 - June 10 Re-Examining Conservation Exhibition April 21, 5:30pm Re-Examining Conservation Exhibition Opening April 21, 7:00pm Evening of Performance April 22, 9:00am Panel Discussions until 5:00pm (refreshments available at 8:15am, and 6:30pm) April 22, 7:00pm Evening of Readings April 23, 9:00am Workshops (refreshments available at 8:15am) For more about the symposium, including a detailed schedule of presenters and registration links, visit: https://sites.google.com/brown.edu/reexaminingconservation/symposium/event-schedule Note: Symposium events on Thursday, April 21 are in-person only. Symposium events on Friday, April 22 and Saturday, April 23 can be attended in person in Martinos Auditorium, Granoff Center or virtually, via Zoom. About Brown Arts Institute The Brown Arts Institute (BAI) at Brown University seeks to cultivate creative expression and foster an interdisciplinary environment where faculty and students learn from one another and from artists and scholars in a wide range of fields across the campus and around the world. The BAI seeks to build on Brown’s reputation as a destination for arts exploration, contributing to cultural enterprise through the integration of theory, practice, and scholarship with an emphasis on innovation and discovery that results from rigorous artmaking and experimentation. arts.brown.edu About Creature Conserve Creature Conserve is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) outreach organization based in Rhode Island dedicated to bringing artists, creative writers, and scientists together to foster informed and sustained support for animal conservation. We believe that art informed by science has the power to direct our attention to the ongoing loss of species and what we can do about it. creatureconserve.com Image: Elevation Change, Faith Williams Dyrsten Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Instagram Twitter YouTube © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home For Students & Faculty ARTS Courses Grants Student Council Film Hub Request Space Brown Arts Pass For Visitors Directions + Accessibility Spaces Upcoming Events In the Community Artist Development Grant Songwriting Workshop Events + Exhibitions 2021-2022 Highlights On View Past Event Archive Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search BAI Announces Re-Examining Conservation Open details for BAI Announces Re-Examining Conservation Bookmark this Page