Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Arts Intensive Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Explore About Who Participates? Accessible and Affordable Housing Dining What to Expect During the Program Field Trips and Other Activities Campus Resources Arts Intensive Gallery AI Courses About AI Courses 2022 Arts Intensive Courses Audiovisual Performance Bay Area Arts Immersion Circa's Leviathan: Art of Circus Movement Design for Silver and Bronze Immersive Cinema Key-Notes: A Piano Exploration L.A. Arts Immersion Narrative Filmmaking: From Script to Screen Wild Sound Explorers: Digital Storytelling at Jasper Ridge Past Arts Intensive Courses Art & Science of Sound Drawing Marathon at the New York Studio School in NYC Fiction Writing Filmmaking From the Bay to LA: West Coast Art Now Intro to Visual Writing Locating the Self: The Poetics and Politics of Identity Musical Theater Public Art Practice: Site-Specific Mural Installation in San Francisco Public Art Practice: Site Specific Installation ReVIVAL: A Site-Specific, Multimedia Dance Theater Production Scene in Action: Dance, Fashion and Visual Art as Performance Sculpture and the Expanded Field Spring Pop Up Workshops The Expressive Vessel: An Immersive Introduction to Clay COVID 2022 FAQs Apply Apply Student Applicant Important Dates Eligibility and Commitment Tips on Applying Submit an Application Review your application status in the VCA Withdrawing from the Program Staff Applicant Graduate Residential Assistant (GRA) Arts Intensive Apprenticeship (AIA) Eligibility and Commitment Submit an Application - AIAs Teach Why Teach AI? Proposing an Arts Intensive Course Teaching Resources Important Dates - Faculty Create, Explore, Collaborate! Arts Intensive 2022 This year's program dates are September 5–23. Classes begin on September 6. Main content start Accepting 2022 Applications Thank you for your interest in the Arts Intensive 2022. While first-round application reviews have begun, applications will remain open for the following programs: Audiovisual Performance Bay Area Arts Immersion Circa's Leviathan: Art of Circus Movement Immersive Cinema Los Angeles Arts Immersion Wild Sound Explorer Apply Today What is Arts Intensive? Arts Intensive offers students time to focus on a single, project-based arts class with campus faculty and guest artists. The courses provide the unique opportunity to create in small class sizes outside of the pressures of the regular academic year. At its best, the program creates an atmosphere of intense artistic exploration, encouraging collaboration and innovation. "Arts Intensive was valuable to me because it was outside of the regular school year. I had time to focus solely on my creative work without the pressure of other classes." An On-Campus Immersion this September! With the success of our return to in-person instruction last year, the 2022 program is slated to return to campus with additional courses and programing that will fully engage creative expression. Courses in film, silver design, sound recording and more! 2022 Arts Intensive Courses Interested? Sign up to stay in the loop and make sure you don't miss any updates: AI Interest Form Applying to AI Courses are enrolled by application, apply today! Application Info Eligibility All returning undergraduates are eligible to apply! Eligibility Details Accessible & Affordable Need-based support is available! Learn More Get the Basics Watch last year's info session. Arts Intensive Gallery See AI students in action! Image Gallery Program Features Access Your Creativity Who Participates? What to Expect During the Program Field Trips and Other Activities Campus Resources Stanford Arts Intensive Web Login Address Arts Intensive Offices Sweet Hall, 2nd Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford, CA 94305 United States Campus Map artsintensive@stanford.edu (650) 724-4667 Arts Intensive Facebook Stanford Arts Instagram Arts Intensive Program Administration Director of Arts in Undergraduate Education Gina Hernandez (650) 724-3657 Database, Course and Enrollment Support Adriana Ramirez-Kubo (650) 723-0360 Residential Programs Administrator Noel Dahl (650) 723-4338 Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top