Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply Office of Communications Event Producer Intake Form Faculty Profile Updates Order Business Cards Order Stationary Request An Announcement EXPLORE The School of the Arts Office of Communications helps get the word out about all of the amazing things our students, alumni, and faculty are doing on- and off-campus, around New York City, and all over the world. School of the Arts faculty, staff, alumni and students are encouraged to contact us with news by emailing [email protected]. This email address can be used to submit content the screens around Dodge, Nash, and Lenfest as well. For all other Communications requests, email [email protected]. Press Room Reporters and other members of the media should visit the Columbia University Press Room to contact the appropriate press officer and to learn about the University's media and film policies. News Team The School of the Arts News Team, made up of student Communications Fellows, manages the flow of news on the School of the Arts website and social media. To report news, email [email protected]. Photography & Video Due to COVID-19, in-person photography or videography services are limited at this time. Please make your requests at least 3 weeks ahead to Tiffany Davis. Photo Library We maintain an archive of photos that are available for your web and print projects. More information coming soon. Logos, Branding & Identity Download logos and the brand guide for Columbia University School of the Arts in various formats here. For more information on how to use them and more, please refer to our SOA Brand Guide and the SOA Style Guide. Creative Services Engage our design resources for digital and print presentations. These services are only available to School of the Arts faculty and staff. Email [email protected] to request a project. Social Media The Office of Communications manages the School-wide Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram feeds, and a YouTube channel. To share news for these networks, email [email protected] or tag us @columbiasoa (Twitter) or @columbiaschoolofthearts (Instagram). Request a Website Update To request a website update, email [email protected]. Meet the Communications Team Kristina Tate, Director of Communications Tiffany Davis, Communications Manager Nicole Saldarriaga, Communications Assistant News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University