Skip to main content Upcoming Events Upcoming events are being held both in-person and online. Requirements for masking and proof of vaccination vary by venue and program. Please check specific event webpages for visitor guidelines and requirements. Review our general Covid Protocols page for more information and/or updates. In-person events and exhibitions may also have special visitor guidelines and Covid protocols. Please visit museum, gallery, or event specific webpages for any additional visitor guidelines or requirements. College of Arts & Sciences UW Links University of Washington Support the Arts Maps Directories MyUW Main Menu Close About Our Vision Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Access Arts & Creativity Initiative Facts and Awards Our Faculty Facilities Arts Units Contact Us UW Students Try Something New Don't Miss This Highlighted Courses Study With Us Scholarships and Financial Aid Careers Arts in the Community Perks and Discounts Prospective Students Join Us Find a Program Apply Now Visitors Plan Your Visit Directions Events Upcoming Events On Demand - Past Events Buy Tickets Code of Conduct Gift Certificates Subscriptions Venues COVID Protocols Search ArtsUW Events Buy Tickets Subscriptions Gift Certificates Code of Conduct Upcoming Events On Demand - Past Events Venues Filter Event Date Range Start Date End Date Event Type Exhibition General Event Lecture/Seminar Performance Event Genre Dance Drama/Theater Music Visual Arts Presented By Art + Art History + Design Burke Museum Department of Dance DXARTS Henry Art Gallery Meany Center School of Drama School of Music Event Admission Type Free Free w/ RSVP Other Ticketed Venue Allen Library Art Building (ART) Brechemin Auditorium Burke Museum Ceramic And Metal Arts Building (CMA) Floyd and Delores Jones Playhouse Glenn Hughes Penthouse Theatre Henry Art Gallery Jacob Lawrence Gallery Meany Hall—Katharyn Alvord Gerlich Theater Meany Hall—Studio 267 Meany Hall—Studio Theatre Red Square Sand Point Gallery Town Hall Seattle wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House View Performance Calendar Mar. 4 - May 31, 2022 Exhibition – What Was: unmarked (O&#39;Toole) Painting + Drawing Professor Helen O'Toole has a solo exhibition titled What Was: unmarked.At the same time, alum Gail Grinnell is showing a site… More Info Learn More May 31, 2022 Philharmonia Northwest with UW Piano Students UW Piano students Alice Liu, Nicholas Tagab, Yiyi Chen, Hanyan Zheng, and Kiwa Mizutani perform concerto movements with special guest orchestra… Meany Hall—Katharyn Alvord Gerlich Theater More Info Buy Tickets Jun. 2 - Jun. 7, 2022 Exhibition – Am I Unmuted? Opening reception: Thursday, June 2, 6–8pmOdegaard hours are: Monday–Thursday, 8am–10pm; Friday, 8am–6pm; Saturday, 10am–6pm; Sunday, 12noon–10pm… More Info Learn More Jun. 2, 2022 Exhibition Opening – Am I Unmuted? The exhibition runs through June 6.Odegaard hours are: Monday–Thursday, 8am–10pm; Friday, 8am–6pm; Saturday, 10am–6pm; Sunday, 12noon–10pm This… More Info Learn More Jun. 2, 2022 Exhibition Opening – The End Email for an appointment to view the exhibition at another time. The exhibition runs through June 14.An exhibition of thesis work by graduating… Sand Point Gallery More Info Learn More Jun. 2, 2022 Industrial Design Junior Show This event features work by junior-level industrial design students from the University of Washington and Western Washington University. More Info Learn More Jun. 2, 2022 Chamber Music Showcase Student chamber groups coached by UW Strings faculty perform music by Mozart, Dvořák, Beethoven, Ravel, and Mendelssohn in this end-of-quarter… Brechemin Auditorium More Info ArtsUW Covid Safety Protocols Jun. 2, 2022 Percussion Ensemble, UW Steel Band and Gamelan Ensemble: "2022 Percussion Bash" The UW Percussion Ensemble (Bonnie Whiting, director) presents a year-end performance shared with the UW Steel Drum Band (Shannon Dudley, director)… Meany Hall—Studio Theatre More Info Buy Tickets Jun. 3 - Jun. 15, 2022 Exhibition – The End Opening reception: Thursday, June 2, 6–8pmEmail for an appointment to view the exhibition during the remainder of its run.An exhibition of thesis… Sand Point Gallery More Info Learn More Jun. 3 Reception: MFA + MDes Thesis Exhibition Check the Henry Art Gallery's website for current hours and admission information plus visitor guidelines.A free public reception in honor of the… More Info Learn More Jun. 3, 2022 UW Symphony and Concerto Competition Winners David Alexander Rahbee conducts the UW Symphony and winners of the 2022 Concerto Competition in an end-of-year performance. Performing with the… Meany Hall—Katharyn Alvord Gerlich Theater More Info Buy Tickets Jun. 6, 2022 Master of Design Thesis Presentations Eight fabulous MDes students have worked tirelessly on their theses over the last year. More Info Learn More Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Next page ›› Follow ArtsUW Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube About Our Vision Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Access Arts & Creativity Initiative Facts and Awards Our Faculty Facilities Arts Units Contact Us UW Students Try Something New Don't Miss This Highlighted Courses Study With Us Scholarships and Financial Aid Careers Arts in the Community Perks and Discounts Prospective Students Join Us Find a Program Apply Now Visitors Plan Your Visit Directions Events Upcoming Events On Demand - Past Events Buy Tickets Code of Conduct Gift Certificates Subscriptions Venues COVID Protocols Search Connect with ArtsUW Email Us Ticket Office: (206) 543-4880 Office Hours: Mon - Fri; 12pm - 4pm Submit an Event Privacy Policy Terms Staff Login Support the Arts