Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > Centers Centers Facilities: Labs, Galleries & Collections Centers The Kendall College of Arts and Sciences is proud to be the home of several ground-breaking research centers and institutes like The Oklahoma Center for Humanities or the TU Institute for Bob Dylan Studies. Students and professors have access to primary documents and experts in the humanities. TU also partners with The Helmerich Center for American Research at Gilcrease Museum where scholars of every age can explore ancient artifacts and rare literature. There are also centers on campus to assist students with writing and research skills. These unique centers enhance the arts and research capabilities of the TU community. The Oklahoma Center for the Humanities The Oklahoma Center for the Humanities is a public think tank for collaboration, research synthesis, deepthinking and community engagement around the vital, distinctive kinds of knowledge, practices and questions the humanities offer. They bring in internationally acclaimed authors, artists, performers and subject matter experts to discuss significant and intriguing topics that remind the TU community of our deep connection to each other. We are all simply human. Learn more. The TU Institute for Bob Dylan Studies The University of Tulsa Institute for Bob Dylan Studies is a broadly interdisciplinary research initiative dedicated to exploring the work, influence, life, and legacy of the Nobel-winning artist and his world. We aim, in particular, to amplify TU’s unique status as the new home of Dylan studies, to draw students and faculty into the archives, to foster world-class research, to engage with Tulsa’s rich musical culture, and to attract international recognition of the university as a leader in the arts and humanities. Learn more. The Helmerich Center for American Research – Gilcrease Museum The Helmerich Center for American Research houses the Gilcrease Library and Archive containing more than100,000 rare books, documents, maps and unpublished works. The collection includes a vast archive of printed documents, dating back to the time of Columbus, that detail the Spanish arrival in the Americas, as well as the New England colonies, Westward expansion and the experiences of America’s native peoples. Learn more. Helen N. Wallace Writing Center The Helen N. Wallace Writing Center offers one-on-one assistance with writing projects to all University of Tulsa students. Students may bring in assignments from any class as well as personal writing projects like résumés. Writing Consultants can help students at any stage of writing: formulating ideas, developing and organizing a draft, editing a near final version or anything in between. During a session, a writing consultant will help students identify weaknesses in their writing and find ways to strengthen their rhetorical choice. The Helen N. Wallace Writing Center is located in McFarlin Library, 3rd Floor. To make an appointment, go to utulsa.mywconline.com or call 918-631-3131. Appointments are recommended, but walk-ins are most welcome. Hours vary by semester. Center for Community Research & Development The Center for Community Research & Development provides a link among The University of Tulsa, the Community Service Council, and other community-based organizations. CCRD aims to improve the effectiveness of community organizations by drawing upon the research skills and technical expertise of faculty and students in a wide variety of disciplines. Learn more. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT