Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown Arts Institute Secondary Navigation Navigation About News Search Menu Site Navigation Home For Students & Faculty ARTS Courses Grants Student Council Film Hub Request Space Brown Arts Pass For Visitors Directions + Accessibility Spaces Upcoming Events In the Community Artist Development Grant Songwriting Workshop Events + Exhibitions 2021-2022 Highlights On View Past Event Archive Search Brown Arts Institute Film Hub Events and resources for all things film at Brown Sub Navigation In This Section ARTS Courses Grants Student Council Film Hub Academics Campus Resources Professional Development Film Council Alumni Screening Collection Request Space Brown Arts Pass Film Hub Events and resources for all things film at Brown Brown University boasts a vibrant community of film historians, theorists, and makers throughout campus. From production courses in the Department of Modern Culture and Media, to film archives at the Rockefeller Library, from festivals and events to students groups and maker spaces, film-based resources and community can be found in myriad places. BAI aims to provide a hub for students, staff and faculty to learn more about working in, and with, film at Brown to foster a growing sense of connection and possibility for collaboration. Ongoing Film Series Film-Thinking Film-Thinking asks how cinema can help us to think the many challenges facing our moment. Each Film-Thinking event comprises a curated screening of a film and a post-screening conversation. Convened by Timothy Bewes, professor of English. Presented by Cogut Institute for the Humanities. John F. Kennedy Jr. Initiative for Documentary Film and Social Progress Spearheaded by family, friends, and classmates of John F. Kennedy Jr. ’83, the initiative aims to bring film and filmmakers to the University with the goal of shedding light on some of the most urgent, challenging, and complex issues facing society through the prism of documentary. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Instagram Twitter YouTube © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home For Students & Faculty ARTS Courses Grants Student Council Film Hub Request Space Brown Arts Pass For Visitors Directions + Accessibility Spaces Upcoming Events In the Community Artist Development Grant Songwriting Workshop Events + Exhibitions 2021-2022 Highlights On View Past Event Archive Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Film Hub Open details for Film Hub Bookmark this Page