Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Media Studies Undergraduate Programs My TU Story Poised for success Engaged TUTV: Lights, camera, experience > Department of Media Studies > Media Studies Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/efbJNKj9Zkc MEDIA STUDIES Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Faculty News Contact the Department Students who earn a degree in media studies learn to examine the role of media and communication in society. By selecting appropriate electives, media studies majors may specialize in any number of roles in professional fields and graduate school in media studies, public relations and advertising, journalism and storytelling, creative multimedia production and other fields. The Media Studies faculty seek to foster a critical commitment, expressed through many media (writing, public speaking, moving images, sound, etc.), to serve civic responsibilities and social progress. Our courses develop analytic thought, clear writing, visual literacy, effective speaking and cultural, global awareness, which prepare students for graduate study, career success, and a good life. Our students come to Media Studies from all kinds of backgrounds and are united by our common commitment to critically and creatively engage the world of media, to become more fluent communicators, critical analysts, storytellers, and creative directors, and to leave the world a better place for our efforts. Program Objectives Students who complete the undergraduate program will: Evaluate and critique abstract categories, and to use these categories in the analysis of empirical data. Apply concepts of social science methodology to rigorously critique and compare empirical studies, or to construct their own empirical study. Effectively use writing to accurately convey their ideas, and to demonstrate the basic ability to think logically and critically, through their writing. Demonstrate a basic competence in communicating ideas through oral presentations before a group of people. Critique visual images with the use of fundamental theoretical concepts. Be able to understand their lives within a wider social and environmental context, to thoughtfully consider their responsibilities towards other people and the natural world, and to take appropriate and ethical actions based upon those considerations. Degree Options Media Studies, B.A. Equips students for a variety of professional opportunities in communication as well as graduate study in communication, law, business administration and other areas. Media Studies, B.S. Students who wish to pursue a Bachelor of Science degree must petition the faculty chair for permission. Media Studies Minor Non-majors interested in learning more about communication are encouraged to add it to their degree program as a minor. Advertising Minor Designed to compliment a degree in media studies, film, English, languages or theatre. Typical Four Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Freshman Experience First Seminar Exposition and Argumentation Beginning Language II Beginning Language I Block III – Scientific Investigation Block II – Social & Historical Interpretation Block II – Social & Historical Interpretation Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry & Creative Experience Contemporary Mathematics SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Communication Systems Intermediate Language II Theories of Communication Inquiry in Communication Minor Media and Popular Culture Block I – Aesthetic Inquiry & Creative Experience Block II – Social & Historical Interpretation Intermediate Language I Block III – Scientific Investigation (with lab) JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Communication Technology and Society Editing for New Media Advocacy Journalist Documentary Workshop Block II – Social & Historical Interpretation Media Production and Criticism Political Communication Minor – Media and Politics Minor General Elective SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Senior Project Communication Internship Newsgathering General Elective Advanced Media Production and Criticism General Elective Minor General Elective General Elective General Elective 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT