Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Academics Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Degrees Art and Art History Cinema & Interactive Media Creative Writing Dance Humanities Music Theatre Center for the Humanities Events Galleries Lowe Art Museum Cuban Heritage Collection Kislak Center Public Sculpture Program UM Wynwood Gallery Venues Bill Cosford Cinema Gusman Concert Hall Jerry Herman Ring Theatre Student Center Complex University Libraries Watsco Center Resources Community Center for the Humanities CollegeTown Coral Gables Campus Map Visit Art Basel 2021 Miami Book Fair 2021 Student Opportunities Grants and Fellowships Academics Center for the Humanities Events Galleries Venues Resources Search Academics Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Degrees Art and Art History Cinema & Interactive Media Creative Writing Dance Humanities Music Theatre Center for the Humanities Events Galleries Lowe Art Museum Cuban Heritage Collection Kislak Center Public Sculpture Program UM Wynwood Gallery Venues Bill Cosford Cinema Gusman Concert Hall Jerry Herman Ring Theatre Student Center Complex University Libraries Watsco Center Resources Community Center for the Humanities CollegeTown Coral Gables Campus Map Visit Art Basel 2021 Miami Book Fair 2021 Student Opportunities Grants and Fellowships Art Basel Miami Book Fair 2021 About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home AAA Miami Book Fair 2021 The University of Miami's The U Creates is parterning with the Miami Book Fair, which takes place from November 14 to 21 in Downtown Miami. Discover the latest titles by University of Miami authors. Explore the arts and humanities. Peruse arts related happenings. Stay connected and receive our daily newsletter. University of Miami Affiliated Schedule of Events Monday, Nov. 15, 7 p.m. An Evening with Jean Becker & Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush—The Man I Knew: The Amazing Story of George H.W. Bush's Post-Presidency Jean Becker tells how the former president rebuilt his life after his loss to Bill Clinton in 1992. Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, author of “Reply All” and the former president’s second son, will join Becker. The event is sponsored by the University of Miami. Auditorium (Building 1, Second Floor, Room 1261) 300 NE Second Ave. Purchase tickets. Tuesday, Nov. 16, 12 p.m. In Conversation—Peak Mind: Find Your Focus, Own Your Attention, Invest 12 Minutes a Day Amishi P. Jha, neuroscientist, director of Contemplative Neuroscience and professor at the University of Miami, offers flexible 12-minutes-a-day exercises to erase mental fog, clear the mind, and bolster focus. The event is moderated by Scott Rogers, founder of the Mindfulness in Law Program at the University of Miami School of Law. Livestreamed. Tuesday, Nov. 16, 8 p.m. An Evening with Sebastian Junger & Bryan Christy: On Freedom Sebastian Junger chronicles spending a year with three friends as they traversed East Coast railroad lines. The event will be moderated by Bryan Christy, author of “In the Company of Killers: A Novel.” It is sponsored by the University of Miami. Chapman Conference Center (Building 3, Second Floor, Room 3210) 300 NE Second Ave. Purchase tickets. Wednesday, Nov. 17, 12 p.m. In Conversation—Cuban Memory Wars: Retrospective Politics in Revolution and Exile Michael J. Bustamante, associate professor and the Emilio Bacardí Moreau Chair in Cuban and Cuban-American Studies at the University of Miami, addresses Cubans’ past battles and Cuban history. The event is moderated by John Gutierrez, assistant professor at John Jay College, City University of New York. It is sponsored by the University of Miami. Livestreamed. Wednesday, Nov. 17, 12 p.m. In Conversation—Our First Civil War: Patriots and Loyalists in the American Revolution H.W. Brands reminds us that before America could win its revolution against Britain, patriots had to win a bitter civil war against family, friends, and neighbors. The event is moderated by Marsha B. Cohen,lecturer, cultural historian, and educator at the University of Miami’s Osher Lifelong Learning Institute. Livestreamed. Saturday, Nov. 20, 6 p.m. In Conversation—What Storm, What Thunder: A Novel Myriam J. A. Chancy’s novel recounts the aftermath of a 7.0 magnitude earthquake in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. It tells of trauma and tenacity. The event is moderated by Guerda Nicolas, professor at the University of Miami School of Education and Human Development. Room 8503 (Building 8, Fifth Floor) 300 NE Second Ave. Purchase tickets. Sunday, Nov. 21, 11 a.m. Dr. Mikkael Sekeres—When Blood Breaks Down: Life Lessons from Leukemia Chief of the division of hematology in the Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Dr. Mikkael Sekeres recounts the stories of three adult leukemia patients and their treatments. He also discusses the disease and the drugs developed to treat it. This event is sponsored by the Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center. Room 8106 (Building 8, First Floor) 300 NE Second Ave. Purchase tickets. Sunday, Nov. 21, 12 p.m. Virtual Pachanga: The Middle-Grade Fantasy Edition Chantel Acevedo—the chair of the University’s Creative Writing Department in the College of Arts and Sciences—tells the story of Callie, who is finally getting the hang of being one of the nine muses of Greek mythology when she gets news of an unprecedented 10th, in her novel “Muse Squad #2.” In Donna Barba Higuera’s ‘‘The Last Cuentista,’’ Petra—the only person who remembers Earth, which was destroyed by a comet centuries ago—awakes on a new planet. Malicious spirits, witchy grandmothers, and curse reversals are just the job for Claribel A. Ortega’s ‘‘Ghost Squad.’’ Karla Arenas Valenti’s ‘‘Lotería’’ offers a perilous game of chance where the turn of a card could change one’s destiny. This event is moderated by Carmen A. Baker, Miami-Dade Public Library System. Livestreamed. Sunday, Nov. 21, 4 p.m. In Conversation—Antiman: A Hybrid Memoir & Things I Have Withheld: Essays Rajiv Mohabir‘s ‘‘Antiman: A Hybrid Memoir’’ is an impassioned, genre-blending work that navigates the issues of race, sexuality, and cultural heritage that have shaped his experiences as an Indo Guyanese queer poet and immigrant to the U.S. Novelist, poet, and professor at the University, Kei Miller’s ‘‘Things I Have Withheld: Essays’’ is a collection of interconnected works that blends memoir and literary commentary to explore the silences that exist in our conversations about race, sex, and gender, from a Black, male, queer perspective. The event is sponsored by the University of Miami’s Center for the Humanities. Room 8503 (Building 8, Fifth Floor) 300 NE Second Ave. Purchase tickets. Sunday, Nov. 21, 6 p.m. In Conversation—Three Writers on Myth, Migration & Mourning In Patricia Engel’s ‘‘Infinite Country: A Novel,’’ Talia is being held at a correctional facility in Colombia. Her father and a plane ticket to the U.S. are waiting for her back home in Bogotá. This is a tale of how her family came to be in two different countries and two different worlds. In ‘‘Concepcion: An Immigrant Family’s Fortunes,’’ Albert Samaha moves across decades and countries as he questions the belief in a better future that inspired his family to uproot themselves from the Philippines. In ‘‘Seeing Ghosts: A Memoir,’’ Kat Chow draws an intimate and haunting portrait of the fallout of grief on three generations of her Chinese American family after the sudden loss of its matriarch. This event is sponsored by the University of Miami's Center for the Humanities. Auditorium (Building 1, Second Floor, Room 1261) 300 NE 2nd Ave. Purchase tickets. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 The U Creates Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices