Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation ARTS About Us Welcome Georgia Tech Arts Staff and Contact information Arts Advisory Board Faculty Insight Group Subscribe to the Digital Newsletter Ferst Center Box Office Directions and Parking Facility Rental Accessibility Group Sales Experience Georgia Tech Arts Events Events at the Ferst Center Visual Art on Campus Virtual Events TECHnically Creative Ticket Buzz and Other Discounts Get Creative Contact Us Tickets Donate Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home About Us Staff and Contact Information Ferst Center for the Arts 349 Ferst Drive NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0468 404-894-9600 Box Office This is the street address for the Ferst Center for the Arts. All non-USPS deliveries to the Ferst Center should be arranged directly with a staff person prior to shipping. Georgia Tech Arts 353 Ferst Drive NW, Suite 141 Atlanta, GA 30332-0468 404-894-2787 Administrative Office 404-894-9864 Fax Email: info@arts.gatech.edu This is the street address for Georgia Tech Arts, and the mailing address for both the administrative office and the Ferst Center. * For questions regarding events happening at the Ferst Center for the Arts, please contact the Ferst Center Box Office or visit our events page. * For questions regarding renting the Ferst Center for the Arts, please visit our facility rental page. * For questions regarding how to get to the Ferst or the office, please visit our parking and directions page. Georgia Tech Arts Staff: Justin Camp - Production Assistant/Master Electrician Justin Camp has eight years of experience in stage lighting. Before joining the Georgia Tech staff full-time, he worked with a contractor providing stage services for the Ferst Center. He also works occasionally at 7 Stages Theatre. He graduated from Georgia Perimeter College in 2014 with an Associate Degree in Theatre. Paul Cottongim - Production Manager Paul Cottongim has over 32 years of experience in technical theater production, including working at most of the theaters in the Atlanta area. Paul has overseen technical operations at the Ferst Center for the Arts since 2007. Joe Davis - Production Assistant/Audio Engineer Joe Davis has 20 years of experience in audio production. Prior to joining the staff full-time, he worked on a freelance basis at the Ferst Center since 2010. He graduated from Georgia Southern University in 2007 with a Bachelor of Music Performance, Magna Cum Laude, and completed post-graduate training in audio engineering from the Conservatory of Recording Arts and Sciences in Tempe, Arizona, in 2008. Avary Don - Stage Manager Avary Don has 7 years professional stage management experience working in theatres, cruise ships and schools. Prior to coming to Tech she split her time between sailing with Princess Cruises within their Entertainment Production department and working freelance in the Boston theatre scene. She holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Muhlenberg College. Ben Dostal - General Operations Manager Ben Dostal has spent the last 15 years in event management and production for programs ranging in size from 15 to 65,000. Coming to Georgia Tech Arts most recently from On Location Experiences, where he was responsible for creating once-in-a-lifetime experiences for sports fans, he is excited to bring his skillset to Georgia Tech to create unforgettable arts encounters for patrons. Ben holds a BS in Education from Florida State University. Elizabeth Geiger - Communications Officer I Elizabeth Geiger comes to Georgia Tech Arts after 8 years with CORE dance in Atlanta and a 25-year career in performing arts management in New York with organizations including Dance Theater Workshop, Feld Ballets/NY, The Joyce Theater, Lincoln Center Festival, Manhattan Theatre Club, and Performance Space 122. She holds a BA in Theatre Arts from the University of California, Santa Cruz. Rachel Haage - Event Coordinator Rachel Haage received her Bachelor of the Arts from DeSales University. She has previously worked as a freelance Event and Stage Manager based in Philadelphia and more recently for the Rialto Center at Georgia State University. Dorcas Ford Jones - Administrative Professional Sr. Dorcas Ford Jones has more than 30 years of experience as an Administrative Professional. While at Emory University for 25 years, she was the Program Administrative Assistant for the James Weldon Johnson Institute for the Study of Race and Difference. She received her Bachelor of Science degree from Emory University where she majored in African American Studies and Arts. Dorcas' passion for the arts can be seen in her creativity in providing assistance during events around the Ferst Center. Dorcas is a native of Chicago, Illinois. Nathalie Matychak - Assistant Director - Producing & Residency Hailing all the way from Brooklyn, NY, Nathalie Matychak brings a decade of experience in the performing arts field to her new role at Georgia Tech Arts. Most recently, she was the Booking Associate for the Southern region at Pentacle, an arts management non-profit organization, where she represented a diverse roster of dance and theater companies. She has also created her own dance works for the stage and screen since 2010, and co-founded an emerging female choreographers project in 2013. She holds a BFA in Dance Performance & Choreography from NYU Tisch School of the Arts. Holley Mitchell - Box Office Coordinator Holley Mitchell has over 25 years of experience in box office and customer service management at theaters, museums, and concert venues in the Atlanta area. Holley has overseen box office and database operations at the Ferst Center for the Arts since 2016. Andrea Mullen - Patron and Event Services Assistant Andrea Mullen comes to Georgia Tech after living in Los Angeles for 5 years acting and working in restaurants and libraries. She was previously a House Manager at Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington, D.C. She is glad to be back working around people again! Andrea is a native of Greenville, SC and holds a B.A. in Drama from Catholic University of America and a Masters in Library Science from Pratt Institute. Aaron Shackelford - Director Aaron Shackelford comes to Georgia Tech from the Fine Arts Center at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, where he was director of programming. There, he curated multi-disciplinary performing arts series and oversaw programs with an emphasis on both academic integration and community engagement. In the decade prior, he had a long-term presence at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill as the director of engagement and as Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow at Carolina Performing Arts. Shackelford holds degrees from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill where he earned his Ph.D. and M.A. in English & Comparative Literature. Kara J. Wade - Student and Artist Engagement Coordinator “KJ” has over a decade of experience as a dance performer, choreographer and arts educator. Kara earned her BA in Dance Education & Minor in African American Studies from UNC-Greensboro, as well as her MFA from UCLA’s Department of World Arts & Cultures/Dance. From television and global stages to local communities and classrooms; Kara has a passion to help cultivate the arts for young professionals and students of all ages. Facebook Instagram Twitter Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Arts@Tech 349 Ferst Dr. Atlanta, GA 30332-0468 (404) 894-2787 info@arts.gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login