Skip to content Menu About Events For Students For Faculty Campus Art Latest information about COVID-19 Menu About Events For Students For Faculty Campus Art About the Vice Presidency for the Arts The Vice Presidency for the Arts (VPA) is dedicated to increasing the visibility and impact of the arts at Stanford. The VPA offers extracurricular and interdisciplinary student programs, public exhibitions and performances, and central resources for navigating the arts within the university. The School of Humanities and Sciences (H&S) is the center of a liberal arts education at Stanford and houses the academic arts departments. Vice Presidency for the Arts Office of the Vice President for the Arts Anderson Collection Cantor Arts Center Institute for Diversity in the Arts Stanford Arts Institute Stanford Live School of Humanities & Sciences Department of Art & Art History Department of English (Creative Writing) Department of Music Department of Theater and Performance Studies 2020-21 Annual Arts Report (link) Arts Initiative History Expand In 2006 Stanford launched the Stanford Arts Initiative with the goal of making the arts a fundamental part of a Stanford education and building the resources and programs required to realize that vision. Thanks to the initiative, the university added new faculty positions in arts departments and programs, new graduate fellowships for PhD and MFA students, and many new arts programs and opportunities designed to ensure that every Stanford student, no matter what their major, can have a meaningful engagement with the arts. The university also added a new general education curricular requirement in Creative Expression, ensuring that every Stanford undergraduate must take at least one creative practice class in order to graduate. The most visible part of the Arts Initiative was the creation of an arts district at the front of Stanford’s campus. In 2015-16 Stanford opened its third new facility for the arts: the McMurtry Building for the Department of Art and Art History. This remarkable resource, designed by Diller Scofidio + Renfro, is a state-of-the-art platform for the study and making of art. It also represents the dynamism of the arts on campus, with a powerful architectural statement and open and inviting spaces. It is truly a transformative addition to campus, joining Bing Concert Hall (2013), the Anderson Collection at Stanford University (2014), and the Cantor Arts Center (1894; renovation 1999). The proximity of these arts facilities to each other allows for productive interactions, and their location at the front of campus highlights the importance the university has placed on the arts. In fall 2016 Stanford opened the renovation of Roble Gym with new and upgraded theater, now called the Harry J. Elam, Jr. Theater, and dance spaces. Frost Amphitheater reopened in the spring of 2019 after an extensive renovation. Now the university is looking to jump to the next level with Arts Leap. Through Arts Leap, Stanford Arts will pursue three strategic priorities for the coming years: engaging every Stanford student; generating pioneering programs that are possible only at Stanford; and moving Stanford forward with leading artists, creatives, and scholars. In winter 2017 Stanford announced the creation of a new role: vice president for the arts. This position has oversight for all nondepartmental arts organizations on campus and leads strategic planning for the arts. Harry Elam, professor of Theater and Performance Studies (TAPS) and vice provost for undergraduate education, was the first to occupy the new position, which he held until 2020. He left to become the president of Occidental College and Matthew Tiews was appointed interim head of the Office of the Vice President for the Arts. Annual Arts Reports Expand 2020-21 Arts Report (link) Fall 2020 Arts and External Engagement Report (pdf) 2019-20 Arts Report (link) 2018-19 Arts Report (pdf) 2017-18 Arts Report (pdf) 2016-17 Arts Report (pdf) 2015-16 Arts Report (pdf) 2014-15 Arts Report (pdf) 2013-14 Arts Report (pdf) 2012-13 Arts Report (pdf) Land Acknowledgment Stanford sits on the ancestral land of the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe. This land was and continues to be of great importance to the Ohlone people. Consistent with our values of community and inclusion, we have a responsibility to acknowledge, honor, and make visible the University’s relationship to Native peoples. This acknowledgment has been developed in collaboration with the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe. Learn more about Stanford’s relationships with native peoples. Meet Deborah Cullinan, Vice President for the Arts In early 2022, Stanford named Deborah Cullinan, formerly chief executive officer of Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco, as the first full-time Vice President for the Arts at the university. “I am elated to be joining the community of visionary arts leaders at Stanford, and working with them to further contribute to the Bay Area creative ecosystem. Artists do the essential work of helping us make meaning of these times. Their capacity to visualize and realize a better, more equitable future is boundless. At this critical moment, Stanford has immense potential to amplify the power of art and creativity to heal us moving forward.” Read the appointment announcement Read an interview in The Stanford Daily Contacts Deborah Cullinan Vice President for the Arts Anne Shulock Assistant Vice President for the Arts Maude Brezinski Executive Director, Development for the Arts Robin Wander Senior Director of Arts Communication Angelica Woodward Human Resources Director Arts Advisory Council — Office of the Vice President for the Arts Littlefield Center, 2nd Floor Stanford, CA 94305-2250 Full Arts Directory Quick Links About Stanford Arts Arts District Overview Arts Map Jobs & Internships In The News Arts Directory Art & Art History Creative Writing Dance Design Digital Media Film Music Theater & Performance Vice President for the Arts Office of the Vice President for the Arts Anderson Collection Cantor Arts Center Institute for Diversity in the Arts Stanford Arts Institute Stanford Live Arts Newsletters Newsletter Sign-up Support Stanford Arts Make a Gift Connect with Stanford Arts Scroll To Top Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.