Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Education Undergraduate Programs Engaged Kendall-Whittier Elementary students visit the TU Rowing Center Student Life Music Ed. Students attend OMEA Conference > Department of Education > Education Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/nBJ0RZwChY8 EDUCATION Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information The Department of Education is representative of the best educational research and applied practices available in the field today. Issues of race, gender, socio-economic class, equity, linguistic pluralism and social justice can be found in every classroom whether urban, suburban, rural, public or private. These issues form the philosophical foundation and the platform upon which students’ course of study will be constructed. Students who seek to become teachers can choose from the following options for majors: mathematics, English, French, German, Spanish, history, political science, music, and elementary education. State approval for the sciences and art education are pending. The Department offers a curriculum that is founded in the arts and sciences and integrated with Education courses, field and clinical experiences, and content specialization programs that draw upon the expertise of faculty from other disciplines found on campus. The Education curriculum is designed to prepare teachers for certification in Oklahoma. Program Objectives Students who complete the education program will be able to: Demonstrate mastery of the central concepts and tools of inquiry of their discipline(s). Plan research-based instruction that advances the learning of each student. Utilize research-based pedagogy that advances the learning of each student. Design curriculum based on state and national standards. Demonstrate mastery of the assessment cycle as a component of teaching. Demonstrate understanding of the processes of human development and learning. Demonstrate a commitment to ongoing professional development. Promote the success of each student based on a demonstrated understanding of the socio-cultural, historical, and institutional contexts of education. Degree Options Education, Elementary, B.A. Comprehensive program of study designed to prepare students to become successful elementary school teachers. Education, B.A. Comprehensive program of study designed to prepare students to become successful middle-secondary teachers in a subject area of specialization. Education, B.S. Focused and comprehensive program of study designed to prepare students to become successful middle-secondary school teacher in a subject area of specialization. Education Minor For those interested in learning more about education are encouraged to add it to their degree program as a minor. Early Intervention Minor An interdisciplinary minor designed for those who plan to work with young children with special needs and their families. Recommended for, but not limited to, students in communication disorders, education, nursing, and psychology. Teaching Areas of Study Biology, chemistry, geosciences, or physics (with a second major in education) Mathematics (with a second major in education) English (with a second major in education) French, German, Russian, or Spanish (with a second major in education) Anthropology, sociology, history or political science (with a second major in education) Art or theatre (with a second major in education) Music education (instrumental or vocal) Exercise and sports science (with certification option) Elementary education 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT