Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Alumni Finding a Fit and Embracing Inclusivity Research Students Explore Team Dynamics > Department of Psychology > Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8kLRxsfg35E PSYCHOLOGY Psychology Undergraduate Programs I/O Psychology Graduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Labs & Institutes Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Now Request Information Industrial-Organizational psychology focuses on mastering key knowledge and skills needed to help organizations succeed, and the doctoral program expands those skills, targeting creation and dissemination of new knowledge in the field of I-O Psychology through scientific research. The program is designed for those seeking to develop the applied skills necessary for basic consulting projects in business and government. Graduates of our master’s program typically find jobs involving analysis of jobs and people as a basis for improving the fit between them. We emphasize that the best foundation for good practice is good science. Our curriculum offers a balance of I/O content, methods and applications in a culture stressing professionalism, respect for individual differences, and the importance of evidence-based practice. Our students learn to think critically and to communicate clearly in solving real-world problems in work settings. Courses are offered in a broad array, including but not limited to job analysis, employee selection, training, leadership, work motivation, organizational development and a variety of methods topics, such as psychological measurement and statistics. Program Objectives MASTER OF ARTS IN INDUSTRIAL-ORGANIZATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY Students who complete the M.A. program in Industrial-Organizational Psychology will: Ability to apply theory and methods to help organizations solve people-related problems. Have knowledge of the aims, practices, and strategies of organizations, workgroups, and individual workers to achieve fit. have knowledge of methods suited to testing the qualities of specific HR-related practices and interventions serving organizational aims. Ability to communicate with technical proficiency in terms understandable by lay professionals. Standards of academic, research, and business professionalism. DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY IN INDUSTRIAL-ORGANIZATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY Students who complete the Ph.D. program in Industrial-Organizational Psychology will: Ability to apply theory and methods to help organizations solve people-related problems. Have knowledge of the aims, practices, and strategies of organizations, workgroups, and individual workers to achieve fit. Have knowledge of methods suited to testing the qualities of specific HR-related practices and interventions service organizational aims. Ability to communicate with technical proficiency in terms understandable by lay professionals. Standards of academic, research, and business professionalism. Ability to design and execute research studies independently, addressing questions relevant to organizational interventions involving people. Degree Options Industrial-Organizational Psychology, M.A. Suitable for those seeking to develop the applied skills necessary for basic consulting projects in business and government. Industrial-Organizational Psychology, Ph.D. For those seeking deeper understanding of the principles and methods of fitting people and jobs; follows the scientist-practitioner model of psychological training, incorporating a synergy of theory, research, and practice. Application Checklist Undergraduate and graduate transcripts from all previous universities, even those where you did not previously earn a degree. Unofficial versions* can be uploaded to the online system after submitting an application. General GRE scores (Verbal, Quantitative, Analytic; we do not require the subject test). Our program focuses mostly on percentiles, which are included in your GRE report. Unofficial versions* can be uploaded to the online system after submitting an application. Letters from three references. At least two should be from professors who know you well. Letters from family friends and work supervisors are given less weight. The online application system allows you to have requests for these sent to your letter writers electronically after an application is submitted. A 500-1000-word Statement of Purpose describing why you are seeking a degree in I-O psychology, and any relevant research experience (especially for doctoral applicants). We do not need to hear your whole life story, but it is a good opportunity to explain any anomalies on your transcript or GRE record. Your statement can be uploaded online after an application is submitted. Resume/Curriculum vitae. Required if you want to be considered for any graduate assistantship funding. Your resume/vita can be uploaded online after an application is submitted. TOEFL/IELTS Scores: Required of all international applicants who have not previously earned a college degree from a US institution. Unofficial versions* can be uploaded to the online system after submitting an application. *The Graduate School screens all documents very carefully and reserves the right to request official versions for any reason as a condition of admittance. I-O Graduate Program Facts From admissions to program outcomes, here are the facts about TU I-O Graduate Programs. Learn more. Application Requirements To be considered for graduate admission, the following items must be submitted to the Graduate School: A completed Graduate School application Statement of Purpose (admission essay) 3 letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your academic potential Official or unofficial transcripts from all universities attended GRE General Test results Curriculum Vitae/Resume $60 application fee International students who studied at a university outside of the U.S. will also need to submit TOEFL or IELTS results 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT