Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown Arts Institute Secondary Navigation Navigation About News Search Menu Site Navigation Home For Students & Faculty ARTS Courses Grants Student Council Film Hub Request Space Brown Arts Pass For Visitors Directions + Accessibility Spaces Upcoming Events In the Community Artist Development Grant Songwriting Workshop Events + Exhibitions 2021-2022 Highlights On View Past Event Archive Search Brown Arts Institute Brown Arts Pass Attend local arts events and classes for free with your Brown ID Sub Navigation In This Section ARTS Courses Grants Student Council Film Hub Request Space Brown Arts Pass Brown Arts Pass Attend local arts events and classes for free with your Brown ID With your Brown ID, you can receive free admission to different arts events in the Providence area and beyond! Read more about opportunities with participating organizations below. AS220 Brown students receive free admission to events, classes, and performances at AS220's Live Arts venues including Main Stage, Black Box, Dance Studio, and the performance space named Psychic Readings. Programming at AS220 is locally focused and features extremely diverse genres and styles. Events include concerts, theatre, dance classes, film screenings, poetry readings, and much more. Events calendar Trinity Repertory Company Brown students can stop by the Trinity Rep ticket office at 201 Washington Street with your Brown ID starting at 12:00pm the day of a performance to obtain one free ticket per ID by saying, “I’m with the Band!” Tickets subject to availability. Valid for Trinity Rep and Brown/Trinity Rep MFA program productions. Excludes Saturday nights and all performances of A Christmas Carol. Performance Schedule RISD Museum As a member institution of the RISD Museum, Brown students, staff, and faculty receive free admission to visit the exhibitions on view at the RISD Museum. Established in 1877 as part of a vibrant creative community, the RISD Museum stewards works of art representing diverse cultures from ancient times to the present. Now On View Institute of Contemporary Art / Boston As a participant of the ICA's University Membership program, Brown students, faculty, and staff are allowed free admission with a valid ID! On top of that, students can receive discounted ticket pricing on ICA performance and films, as well as unlimited free tours (for groups up to 20). To reserve your tickets, follow the link below and select "Brown University" in the Participating Institutions list. When adding tickets to your cart, be sure to choose the "University Member" option. Reserve a ticket Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Instagram Twitter YouTube © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home For Students & Faculty ARTS Courses Grants Student Council Film Hub Request Space Brown Arts Pass For Visitors Directions + Accessibility Spaces Upcoming Events In the Community Artist Development Grant Songwriting Workshop Events + Exhibitions 2021-2022 Highlights On View Past Event Archive Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown Arts Pass Open details for Brown Arts Pass Bookmark this Page