Skip to content Menu About Events For Students For Faculty Campus Art Latest information about COVID-19 Menu About Events For Students For Faculty Campus Art New acquisition by David Park on view at the Anderson Collection The museum reopens to the public on Wednesday, Sept. 22, 2021. ROBIN WANDER | September 15, 2021 Late last year, the Anderson Collection at Stanford University received a gift from two individuals, one who has been giving the gift of time to the museum for years and the other an alumnus. Keith Jantzen and his husband, Scott Beth, ’82, donated Untitled (Portrait of Tom Jefferson), 1957, by the Bay Area artist David… Read More Student Arts Grants: A Year in Photos 2020-21 ERINA ALEJO | September 13, 2021 This year’s VPA Student Arts Grants supported a wide range of virtual and remote student-initiated collaborative projects across the Stanford community. Projects ranged from photography, documentary and narrative film, zines, musical theater, dance, contemporary plays, and inviting renowned artists for exhibitions and artist talks serving the student community. Aligned with Stanford policies, the VPA continues… Read More artsCatalyst Grants 2020-21 SABRINA WILENSKY | August 31, 2021 This past academic year, the Office of the Vice President for the Arts awarded 58 artsCatalyst Grants to faculty members from across the University. These grants foster arts experiences that enhance classroom experiences for undergraduate students. All of the activities took place in the virtual environment. 2020-21 artsCatalyst Grant Recipients An Artist’s Life: Diverse Voices and Changing Contexts… Read More Stanford Global Studies photo contest showcases student experiences abroad and at home STEFANIE PIETKIEWICZ | June 3, 2021 Stanford Global Studies (SGS) has unveiled the winners of its tenth annual photo contest. Each year, the competition celebrates the creative talents of student photographers affiliated with SGS’s 14 centers and programs. More than 80 photos, captured in locations across the United States and around the world, were entered into six categories: the natural world,… Read More Stanford launches search for the next vice president for the arts A broad search committee of on- and off-campus constituencies expects to make its recommendation to the president by fall. ROBIN WANDER | May 26, 2021 This month, Stanford launched the search for a new vice president for the arts with the goal of having the new leader in place by the beginning of the 2021-22 academic year. Reporting to the president, the vice president will represent the arts at the highest levels of the administration. They will champion the arts as fundamental… Read More How VPUE’s ITALIC program pivoted to a virtual immersive arts experience ALEX KEKAUOHA | May 14, 2021 As the Stanford community adapted to virtual instruction this past academic year, one signature Stanford Introductory Studies program has had to find new ways of not only teaching and learning but also delivering on the promise of community and connection. Led by artist Chris Kallmyer, ITALIC students virtually occupied Stanford’s Cantor Arts Center with sound… Read More Stanford’s Public Art Committee set to expand contemporary art offerings across campus The university’s Public Art Committee oversees commissions of site-specific works by Alicja Kwade, Sam Van Aken, Xu Zhen. ROBIN WANDER | February 9, 2021 The transformation of the arts at Stanford – begun a decade ago with the creation of the arts district – continues on, with transformative art installations in other locations on campus as well. The Public Art Committee, chaired by Matthew Tiews, interim senior associate vice president for the arts and associate vice president for campus engagement,… Read More Cantor Arts Center launches Asian American Art Initiative bolstered by major Ruth Asawa acquisition, The Michael Donald Brown Collection and other works Among the first of its kind, Stanford’s newest hub of interdisciplinary scholarship transforms the museum’s collection and expands research opportunities. BETH GIUDICESSI | January 25, 2021 The Cantor Arts Center at Stanford University announced today the establishment of the Asian American Art Initiative (AAAI), a significant effort to acquire, preserve, display and research art related to Asian American and Asian diaspora artists and their practices. The initiative is anchored by the museum’s acquisition of 233 ceramic masks that comprise Untitled (LC. 012, Wall of Masks) by Ruth… Read More Talisman video montage in honor of MLK STANFORD TALISMAN | January 18, 2021 Stanford Talisman prepared a special musical compilation for Stanford Redwood City in commemoration of Martin Luther King Jr. Day. The video includes recent performances that reflect on the life and impact of Dr. King, then and especially now. Read More 2021 Denning virtual visiting artists announced Three artists representing varied disciplines will participate in virtual residencies during the winter and spring quarter. ROBIN WANDER | January 5, 2021 During the fall quarter, in the face of extended restrictions of on-campus activities due to the pandemic, the Office of the Vice President for the Arts announced an expedited round of grants available to Stanford staff and faculty in any academic department or program to support three virtual visiting artists for the winter and spring… Read More ‘Formed & Fired: Contemporary American Ceramics’ at the Anderson Collection breaks the mold Exhibition highlights artists who are reshaping ceramics in concept and craftsmanship. BETH GIUDICESSI | December 10, 2020 From ancient pottery and medicinal clay to 3D-printed joints and pajamas that restore athletes’ muscles, the use of ceramics for objects rooted in decoration, ritual and utility is as old as it is expansive. The practices of four living artists whose exploration of the medium provides commentary on its past and insight for the future… Read More Student musician goes from “The Voice” to Stanford Anthony Arya, ’24, was a contestant on season 15 of the NBC television hit talent show The Voice. Now the singer, songwriter and guitarist is marking the end of his first quarter at Stanford with a new holiday album. ALEX KEKAUOHA | December 9, 2020 Over the past several years, Anthony Arya has made a name for himself in the Northern California music scene. But it was his appearance on NBC’s The Voice that exposed him to a national audience. In 2018, Arya was a contestant on season 15 of the popular singing competition show that features celebrities judging promising… Read More STANFORD ARTS | 2019-2020 ROBIN WANDER | December 1, 2020 In April 2020, Vice President for the Arts Harry Elam delivered his final presentation to the Stanford Faculty Senate before assuming the presidency of Occidental College. He said that the arts had informed his work, his scholarship and life at Stanford and that in his various roles he sought to make the arts “inescapable” for… Read More Stanford Department of Art and Art History presents Out of the Dark: Works by Xiaoze Xie DEPARTMENT OF ART & ART HISTORY | November 23, 2020 Out of the Dark is an online showcase of Xiaoze Xie’s recent paintings from The Library Series, the video Transience, and Forbidden Memories (Scrutiny and Objects of Evidence), a research-based project focusing on the history of banned books in China. Virtually displayed to scale in multiple spaces in the McMurtry Building, Xie’s recent work employs a variety of mediums, including painting, installation, photography,… Read More Stanford’s makerspaces are adapting to the pandemic Even faced with complete closure due to health and safety guidelines, Stanford’s makerspaces have found innovative ways to continue serving their communities during the COVID-19 pandemic. TAYLOR KUBOTA | November 20, 2020 In normal circumstances, the many makerspaces of Stanford University offer tools, resources, supplies, workshops and personal assistance to campus creatives producing art, engineering, textiles and science. But the same personal instruction and shared resources that make Stanford’s makerspaces so practical are, unfortunately, also problematic during the coronavirus pandemic. Aparna Sharma, operations manager at the Robin Li and… Read More Keeping the Gaieties tradition alive, despite COVID-19 While there may not be a “bearial” of Cal’s mascot Oski at The Claw, or a train whistle blowing in White Plaza every hour for 121 hours before the Big Game this year, there will be three evening performances of Gaieties, plus two matinees. ROBIN WANDER | November 12, 2020 With the exception of a handful of lost years between 1968 and 1976, Ram’s Head Theatrical Society’s annual Gaieties production – performed before Stanford’s Big Game against Cal – has been a Stanford tradition since 1911. While this year presented unprecedented challenges to the diaspora theater company working primarily with videotelephony, 17 cast members and 29 company… Read More Older Posts » Genres Architecture Art & Art History Creative Writing Dance Design Digital Media Film Humanities Music Office of the Vice President for the Arts Theater & Performance Quick Links About Stanford Arts Arts District Overview Arts Map Jobs & Internships In The News Arts Directory Art & Art History Creative Writing Dance Design Digital Media Film Music Theater & Performance Vice President for the Arts Office of the Vice President for the Arts Anderson Collection Cantor Arts Center Institute for Diversity in the Arts Stanford Arts Institute Stanford Live Arts Newsletters Newsletter Sign-up Support Stanford Arts Make a Gift Connect with Stanford Arts Scroll To Top Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.