Skip to content COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK Search for: Contact Us Support Us Arts Initiative at Columbia University Search for: Free & Discounted Tickets Performances Museums Movies Events Events Calendar Columbia Nights Morningside Lights Museum Exhibitions For Students Student Arts Grants Ticket Your Event Submit Your Event For Faculty ArtsLink About Mission & Team About the TIC Contact Us Support Us Performance Discounts Performance Discounts Get free and discounted tickets to performances around New York City As our city reaches more advanced phases for reopening, get free and discounted admission to performances around NYC with our flagship On Sale at the TIC program and more. Photo: Columbians attend The Book of Mormon on Broadway with discounted tickets from On Sale at the TIC | Credit: Fadi Kheir for current Columbia students, faculty, and staff On Sale at the TIC [paused] Get discounted tickets to hundreds of off-campus arts events at the city's leading performance spaces including Broadway, Carnegie Hall, the Metropolitan Opera, New York City Ballet, the New York Philharmonic, and more. On Sale at the TIC curates a selection of events available each semester. Tickets go on sale at the start of each semester. for current Columbia students Passport to Performances Passport to Performances brings Columbia students free tickets to performances from world-class New York City venues, including Carnegie Hall, the Metropolitan Opera, and the New York Philharmonic. Tickets are exclusively announced through our email newsletter and won’t be listed on our website, so sign up for our email list to find out when you get these first-come first-served tickets throughout the year. Tickets are announced shortly before they are available to be picked up in person at the Ticket and Information Center in the lobby of Lerner Hall. Free tickets are limited and first-come first-served. Limit 2 tickets per person, only available to current students with a Columbia ID. No returns or exchanges. Lost tickets cannot be replaced. for Faculty: class visit ArtsLink [paused] Complement your curriculum with vibrant arts experiences around New York City. ArtsLink is a concierge service for University faculty through which our team can help arrange group orders and manage the logistics of outings to performances, exhibitions, or other arts events around the city. [ArtsLink is paused in accordance with Columbia University's current COVID-19 guidance for off-campus group gatherings.] Stay Up to Date on the Latest Events and Ticket Info © 2022 Columbia University Arts Initiative Arts Initiative at Columbia University 202 Dodge Hall, MC 1801 New York, New York 10027 (212) 851-9574 artsinitiative@columbia.edu The Ticket and Information Center is closed for summer break, and will reopen in fall 2022. © 2022 Columbia University Arts Initiative