Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Department of Philosophy and Religion Faculty Meet the new Warren Chair of Catholic Studies 918-631-2236 Chapman Hall, 200 Map Email https://youtu.be/nBJ0RZwChY8 PHILOSOPHY & RELIGION Programs Lectures Faculty News Contact the Department The Department of Philosophy and Religion offers programs in two separate disciplines: philosophy and religion. The programs are different but similar in nature. Philosophy explores the most fundamental questions about human life, including the nature and meaning of the basic elements of human experience and the limits of knowledge. The course of study encourages a critical approach to religious texts and traditions, emphasizing literary, historical, philosophical, theological and moral inquiries. The Department of Philosophy and Religion fit together like a hand in a glove. They both ask fundamental questions. Both explore how to live a good life and take seriously the questions that arise in life and try to answer them. They expose and question assumptions and try to find answers and set standards for those answers. Students of philosophy will explore the moral and political philosophy, philosophy of logic, philosophy of language, the history of analytic philosophy, ancient philosophy, Kant and Wittgenstein to name a few. Faculty will help students articulate in speaking and writing clearly, in thinking and reasoning clearly and draw connections among the many ideas that abound. Students of religion contemplate deeply about topics such as the purpose of life, the nature of reality and our relationships with others. They also will develop skills of careful reading and clear writing as they wrestle with many fundamental questions, as well as a greater respect for others and a firm basis for constructively contributing to solutions for the problems of our time. Bell Distinguished Lectureship The William and Rita Bell Lecture is a yearly feature housed in the Kendall College of Arts and Sciences. Begun in the spring of 1991, the program consists of lectures with a distinguished visiting professor joining the university faculty every fourth semester. The lectures focus on a topic generally related to Anglican and Ecumenical concerns, and the faculty appointment is made in either the Departments of Philosophy and Religion, English and/or History. Learn more. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT