Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Academics Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Degrees Art and Art History Cinema & Interactive Media Creative Writing Dance Humanities Music Theatre Center for the Humanities Events Galleries Lowe Art Museum Cuban Heritage Collection Kislak Center Public Sculpture Program UM Wynwood Gallery Venues Bill Cosford Cinema Gusman Concert Hall Jerry Herman Ring Theatre Student Center Complex University Libraries Watsco Center Resources Community Center for the Humanities CollegeTown Coral Gables Campus Map Visit Art Basel 2021 Miami Book Fair 2021 Student Opportunities Grants and Fellowships Academics Center for the Humanities Events Galleries Venues Resources Search Academics Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Degrees Art and Art History Cinema & Interactive Media Creative Writing Dance Humanities Music Theatre Center for the Humanities Events Galleries Lowe Art Museum Cuban Heritage Collection Kislak Center Public Sculpture Program UM Wynwood Gallery Venues Bill Cosford Cinema Gusman Concert Hall Jerry Herman Ring Theatre Student Center Complex University Libraries Watsco Center Resources Community Center for the Humanities CollegeTown Coral Gables Campus Map Visit Art Basel 2021 Miami Book Fair 2021 Student Opportunities Grants and Fellowships Student-artists come face to face with themselves An asynchronous learning model provided an opportunity to create a hands-on process with a three-dimensional approach for a fall class. Student-artists come face to face with themselves An asynchronous learning model provided an opportunity to create a hands-on process with a three-dimensional approach for a fall class. Student-artists come face to face with themselves An asynchronous learning model provided an opportunity to create a hands-on process with a three-dimensional approach for a fall class. Meet the University of Miami artists of Art Basel As Art Week draws near, graduate students who are pursuing a master’s in fine arts open up about the inspiration behind their featured work. Meet the University of Miami artists of Art Basel As Art Week draws near, graduate students who are pursuing a master’s in fine arts open up about the inspiration behind their featured work. Meet the University of Miami artists of Art Basel As Art Week draws near, graduate students who are pursuing a master’s in fine arts open up about the inspiration behind their featured work. Sculpture in Conversation: Monuments and racism in America Associate Professor Billie Grace Lynn creates thought-provoking sculpture that addresses some of contemporary culture’s most pressing issues. Sculpture in Conversation: Monuments and racism in America Associate Professor Billie Grace Lynn creates thought-provoking sculpture that addresses some of contemporary culture’s most pressing issues. Sculpture in Conversation: Monuments and racism in America Associate Professor Billie Grace Lynn creates thought-provoking sculpture that addresses some of contemporary culture’s most pressing issues. A masterclass with Yoshiki The Japanese rock legend Yoshiki shares his passion for music during a visit to the University of Miami Phillip and Patricia Frost School of Music. A masterclass with Yoshiki The Japanese rock legend Yoshiki shares his passion for music during a visit to the University of Miami Phillip and Patricia Frost School of Music. A masterclass with Yoshiki The Japanese rock legend Yoshiki shares his passion for music during a visit to the University of Miami Phillip and Patricia Frost School of Music. Ready for the bright lights of Broadway Senior University of Miami Theatre Arts students traveled to New York City over spring break in hopes of making their dreams a reality. Ready for the bright lights of Broadway Senior University of Miami Theatre Arts students traveled to New York City over spring break in hopes of making their dreams a reality. Ready for the bright lights of Broadway Senior University of Miami Theatre Arts students traveled to New York City over spring break in hopes of making their dreams a reality. The hour belonged to the Frost School The Frost School of Music’s Band of the Hour thrilled concertgoers at Ultra Music Festival. The hour belonged to the Frost School The Frost School of Music’s Band of the Hour thrilled concertgoers at Ultra Music Festival. The hour belonged to the Frost School The Frost School of Music’s Band of the Hour thrilled concertgoers at Ultra Music Festival. A PLACE FOR CREATORS Located in one of the most artistically adventurous cities in the world, the University of Miami nurtures creativity and originality through 50 internationally acclaimed art degree programs. Our talented faculty and student artists are driving innovation through imaginative explorations and modes of expression. We invite you to visit our performance halls, venues, and galleries to open your mind and discover the stories of the University’s creative community. The U Creates celebrates diverse perspectives and forms of expression, affording students unique opportunities to experience artistic creation and production. President Julio Frenk At the University of Miami, students from all facets of the arts and humanities are continually leading the charge in South Florida’s growing community. In a new “Spotlight” series, meet the creatives, thinkers, and dreamers behind The U Creates. Read More ARTS AND HUMANITIES UPCOMING EVENTS: Events Join us for an alluring array of music, theatre, film, and visual arts at the University of Miami. Classical performances and cutting-edge premieres, as well as thought-provoking lectures, exhibits, and films, are among the more than 500 events each year that reflect the University’s youthful spirit and multicultural vibrancy. EXPLORE THE CALENDAR U MIAMI ON: Frost band marches to a new cadence The Frost School of Music’s Band of the Hour discovers new ways to deliver school spirit amid the pandemic For ’Canes defensive lineman, playing field includes football and music Jaelan Phillips explains how recuperating from an accident gave him time to realize his love for music. UMTV’s The Culture sheds light on the Black Lives Matter movement A group of University of Miami students take a deep dive through film, photography, and journalism into the history of police brutality and social justice issues Black people are facing in the United States. Frost student uses the power of music to connect and unite Carlehr Swanson, a Frost School of Music master’s student and a Miss Florida contestant, uses her voice to bring awareness and joy to the Miami community. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 The U Creates Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices