Skip to content COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK Search for: Contact Us Support Us Arts Initiative at Columbia University Search for: Free & Discounted Tickets Performances Museums Movies Events Events Calendar Columbia Nights Morningside Lights Museum Exhibitions For Students Student Arts Grants Ticket Your Event Submit Your Event For Faculty ArtsLink About Mission & Team About the TIC Contact Us Support Us Eddie Palmieri Salsa Orchestra Learn basic salsa dance steps and then put them in action! Dancers of any ability level are welcome, no experience required. FREE Lincoln Center - Josie Robertson Plaza June 01, 2022 | 6:00 pm Get tickets Performance details See below for more information. How to attend There are two ways to access this event: 1. General Admission, first-come first-served. Just show up! 2. Limited Advance Reservation will also be available for this event, opening Tuesday, May 31 at noon. Location Lincoln Center Josie Robertson Plaza 10 Lincoln Center Plaza New York, NY Visit website About The Performance Style: Salsa Dance Instructor: Talia Castro-Pozo DJ: DJ Broadway All summer long, Social Dance at The Oasis honors the rich traditions of Latin dance and music that have so deeply enriched New York City’s artistic heritage. Whether you’re an experienced dancer or just starting out, dancers of any ability level are welcome! Tonight’s dance lesson from accomplished choreographer Talia Castro-Pozo, accompanied by DJ Broadway, will give you the basic steps you’ll need to dance along to the music of the Grammy-award winning pianist Eddie Palmieri as he leads his orchestra on a whirlwind tour through his more than sixty years of salsa hits. Image: Eddie Palmieri performing at Restart Stages at Lincoln Center in 2021 / photo by Sachyn Mital Stay Up to Date on the Latest Events and Ticket Info © 2022 Columbia University Arts Initiative Arts Initiative at Columbia University 202 Dodge Hall, MC 1801 New York, New York 10027 (212) 851-9574 artsinitiative@columbia.edu The Ticket and Information Center is closed for summer break, and will reopen in fall 2022. © 2022 Columbia University Arts Initiative