Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > Organizational Studies Program Organizational Studies Program https://youtu.be/S1WdA3zkT08 Arts, Culture and Entertainment Management Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering and Language Program Medieval and Early Modern Studies Minor Museum Science and Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Program The University of Tulsa offers a bachelor of arts (B.A.) degree in Organizational Studies through the Kendall College of Arts and Sciences. Organizational Studies is an interdisciplinary major composed of 30 hours of course work designed for those students who wish to study organizational behavior and structure in the public and private realms, without limiting themselves to one of the participating disciplines. The major blends the disciplines of Communication and Industrial/Organizational Psychology with Management. The aim of the program is to provide students with knowledge and skills that will prepare them for administrative positions in both public and private organizations. The degree requires all students to complete a minor. The organizational studies major builds on the general curriculum through a variety of courses in communication, economics, psychology, sociology, management and marketing. The interdisciplinary degree allows students to take courses offered by both the Kendall College of Arts and Sciences and the Collins College of Business and provides them with the breadth and depth of knowledge that will help them to understand the complex world in which we live and to succeed in it. Students are encouraged to participate in internships for credit or study abroad. During the senior year, students complete a senior project worth three credit hours. Program Objectives Students will Demonstrate critical thinking and analytical skills by applying managerial problem solving techniques Demonstrate ability to communicate clearly and effectively in both written and oral forms Compare different management organizations and evaluate their organizational principles, function, and practices Identify how organizations function in diverse, social, cultural, and economic contexts Typical Four Year Schedule Lower Level Required (9 hours, 3 of the following) BUS 1013 Business and Society COM 2013 Communication Systems COM 2523 Communication Technology and Society ECON 2013 Principles of Economics I: Macroeconomics ECON 2023 Principles of Economics II: Microeconomics MGT 2143 Intro Sports Management PSY 2053 Psychology of Work PSY 2253 Foundations of Psychology SOC 1013 Sociological Imagination Upper Level Required (12 hours, 4 of the following) COM 366 Writing Public Relations ENGL 3003 Writing for the Professions MGT 3003 Principles of Management MGT 3153 Financial Management (Not-For-Profit) MGT 3163 Management Not-For-Profit MGT 3173 Revenue Gen Sports Org PSY 3073 Industrial/Organizational Psychology Upper Level Electives (9 hours, 3 of the following) AM 3013 Arts Administration I AM 3023 Arts Administration II ANTH 4048 Introduction to Museum Work COM 3453 Media/Concept Strategy COM 4613 Internship COM 4943 Analyze Comm. Organization MGT 3063 Organizational Behavior MGT 3103 Human Resource Management MGT 3973 Financial Aspects of Nonprofits MGT 4023 Negotiation and Management Skills MKTG 3003 Principles of Marketing MKTG 4973 Seminar: Managing Nonprofit Orgs PSY 3053 Social Psychology PSY 4063 Psychology of Diversity SOC 3023 Sociology of Work and Occupations Senior Project (3 hours)Recommended Block Courses SP 2113 Public Speaking (Block I) Note: No more than 15 credits in the major may be taken in courses offered by the Collins College of Business. Students planning to use upper level business electives should choose at least one of the economics courses as a lower level elective. Degree Organizational Studies, B.A. Designed for those students who wish to study organizational behavior and structure in the public and private realms, without limiting themselves to one of the participating disciplines. Contact the Director Meet Dean of College of Arts and Sciences and Organizational Studies Program Director Kalpana Misra. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT