Info for × News Media Inquiries Events Submit an Arts Event Video Replay: 2020 – 2021 Events About Mission & History Prospective Students Visit Us Venues and Studios Opportunities Contact Accessibility Climate & Inclusion Resources Feedback Committee Programs View All Courses Princeton Atelier Creative Writing Dance Music Theater Theater Visual Arts Fellowships People Faculty Fellows Staff Alumni Students Lewis Center Student Advisors Search About Climate & Inclusion Programs People Events News Contact Us Facebook Twitter Google Instagram Search × Current Students View All Courses Funding & Awards Find a Student Advisor Passport to the Arts Prospective Students The Arts @ Princeton Why Study the Arts? Visit Campus Apply Alumni News & Networking Alumni POV Artists Fellowships Visitors Directions Venues and Studios Media / Press Media Inquiries General Information Directory Subscribe to Email Updates Follow @Princeton Arts Facebook Twitter Google Instagram × Programs Show Menu × Creative Writing History Faculty & Visiting Writers Courses Class of 2025 Program of Study Althea Ward Clark W’21 Reading Series C.K. Williams Reading Series Faculty News & Recognitions CSCWR: Centering Students in Creative Writing News Poetry Contest "Creative Writing is an act of willfulness, a deliberate effort to reconceive, to rearrange, to reconstitute nothing short of reality itself.” — Jhumpa Lahiri The Program in Creative Writing offers Princeton undergraduates the opportunity to craft original work under the guidance of some of today’s most respected practicing writers including Michael Dickman, Aleksandar Hemon, A.M. Homes, Jhumpa Lahiri, Christina Lazaridi, Yiyun Li, Paul Muldoon, James Richardson, Kirstin Valdez Quade, and Susan Wheeler. Small workshop courses, averaging eight to ten students, provide intensive feedback and instruction for both beginners and advanced writers, and each year 25 to 30 seniors work individually with a member of the faculty on a creative thesis: a novel, a screenplay, or a collection of short stories, poems or translations. Writers of national and international distinction visit campus throughout the year to participate in the Althea Ward Clark W’21 Reading Series and to discuss their work. The Lewis Center presents the biennial Princeton Poetry Festival drawing poets from around the world. The C.K. Williams Reading Series puts senior thesis students at the podium alongside a lineup of established guest writers curated by seniors in the program. The Leonard Milberg collections and Princeton’s unparalleled library and archives also provide world-class opportunities for the study of contemporary literature. Learn more about Program in Creative writing faculty, news, events, & courses. Upcoming Creative Writing Events There are no upcoming events scheduled. Creative Writing News May 24, 2022 Lewis Center for the Arts Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Read More > May 19, 2022 Creative Writing Professor Yiyun Li Wins the 2022 PEN/Malamud Award Read More > May 18, 2022 A Year of Returning In-Person to Stages, Studios, Galleries, and Screening Rooms Read More > May 16, 2022 Creative Writing alum Jordan Salama’s debut book chosen as Class of 2026 Pre-Read Read More > Read more creative writing news Climate & Inclusion Learn more about the Lewis Center for the Arts' efforts on addressing Climate & Inclusion. Receive Lewis Center Events & News Updates Lewis Arts Complex / 122 Alexander Street Program In Visual Arts / 185 Nassau Street Program In Creative Writing / 6 New South 609.258.1500 lewiscenter@princeton.edu Information For ... Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Artists Media / Press Visitors Opportunities Partnerships & Support Fellowships for Artists Funding for Princeton Students Career Advising & Mentorship High School Contests Post an Event to our Calendar Follow Us Facebook Twitter Google Instagram © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University