Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State Welcome to the College of Arts and Sciences Give Now Menu Welcome to the College of Arts and Sciences Search form Search About About the College College Directory Office of the Dean Dean's External Advisory Committee Staff Advisory Council By the Numbers College History Notable Alumni Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Certificate Program Departments & Centers Honors & Recognition Facilities About Columbus For Faculty & Staff Open Faculty Positions Academics Academic Programs Certificates Advanced Chemistry Knowledge for Educators Certificate Computational Analysis of Language Certificate Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Certificate Essential Skills for Travel and Business in Russia Certificate Food, Culture and Society Certificate Forensic Anthropology Certificate Geographic Information Science and Technology Graduate Certificate Health Communication Certificate Health Psychology/Behavioral Medicine Certificate History of Capitalism Certificate Hydrogeology Certificate Intercultural Competence for Global Citizenship Certificate Marine Science Certificate Medical Anthropology Certificate Natural History Museum Curation Certificate Petroleum Geology Certificate Planetary Science Certificate Science and Environmental Communication Certificate Translation and Interpretation Certificate Explore Our Programs Departments & Centers Future Students Why Arts and Sciences? Your Journey Experience the Arts and Sciences Virtually Academic Overviews Buckeye Life Buckeye Opportunities for Leadership and Development (BOLD) Program for Advancing Scholarship and Service (PASS) TransPort Program Admissions Information Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Academic Contacts For High School Counselors Current Students Advising & Academics Advising Support General Education Requirements Course Scheduling Adding & Dropping Courses Honors & Scholars Degree Planning Declare Your Major Graduation & Research Distinction Policies Capital Program Administration Beyond the Classroom Internships Education Abroad Undergraduate Research Volunteering Service Learning Peer Mentoring Student Leadership Scholarships & Grants Merit & Need-Based Awards Research & Creative Activity Funding Global Education Funding Diversity Scholarships Get Involved Undergraduate Student e-Newsletter Take Your Professor To Lunch Program Coffee Connections Program Arts and Sciences Student Organizations Arts and Sciences Student Council Arts and Sciences Dean's Student Advisory Board Diversity Matters Student Resources Graduate Students Graduate Programs Funding Resources Diversity in Graduate Studies Graduate Student Awards College Credit Plus Teacher Credentialing Programs News & Events Subscribe Responding to a Pandemic News The Daily Post Experts in the Media Spotlights Insight Events Podcasts ASCENT Magazine Social Media & Publications Career Success Research Community Outreach Departments & Centers Interdisciplinary Faculty Research Undergraduate Research Science Sundays Business Opportunities For Faculty & Staff Arts Arts & Culture in the College Galleries, Museums & Collections Departments & Centers Venues & Parking Virtual Arts Gallery Arts District Construction Updates Upcoming Events Inaugural Lectures Alumni & Giving Giving in Arts & Sciences How to Give News & Events ASCENT Magazine Connect Newsletter Archive Virtual Events Archive Photo Gallery Volunteer Opportunities Share Your Stories Alumni Society Student Ambassador Program Application About Our Alumni Notable Alumni Alumni Awards Call for Nominations Search Arts & Culture in the College Virtual Arts Gallery Arts District Upcoming Events You are hereHome / Arts & Culture Arts & Culture ARTISTS FIND A WAY: VIRTUAL ARTS GALLERY "Our familiar workplaces, materials and colleagues are no longer close at hand. Like everybody else, we’re still figuring this thing out. But we are not gone. We haven’t stopped. We haven’t even paused." View Gallery Explore the Arts District Explore the Arts District Ohio State's planned Arts District will boast the Timashev Family Music Building — a new home for the School of Music — and a new building for the Department of Theatre, Film, and Media Arts. Both facilities will feature state-of-the-art performance spaces, modern recital halls and high-tech classrooms. In positioning all visual and performing arts disciplines around the revitalized entryway to campus at 15th Avenue and High Street, we are creating an arts ecosystem — an enduring, yet ever-evolving hub for artistic, educational, social and commercial interchange. We are welcoming the community to campus through the arts. Learn more about the Arts District Why study the Arts at Ohio State? Why study the Arts at Ohio State? The visual and performing arts are a centerpiece of The Ohio State University. Our rich and challenging curriculum and professional faculty artists cultivate a vibrant environment where unlimited opportunities exist for creativity, free expression, real-world experience, strong traditions and community engagement. Arts & Culture News More news May 20 Eight-year study on the sound of religion culminates in interactive au... May 17 Shank appointed director of Humanities Centers Consortium May 17 Acuff appointed chair of Department of Arts Administration, Education ... May 4 Ohio State, Getty Images partner to uncover untold stories and picture... May 4 Charles O. Anderson joins Department of Dance as new chair April 5 Michael Ibrahim joins School of Music as new director March 22 Spanish alumna’s new film inspired by worldly experiences at Ohio St... March 18 Blending history and memoir, Lindsey's 'America, Goddam' examines viol... March 8 Creative writing MFA alum named NEA Fellow, reflects on book about Ukr... March 8 Sonic Arts Ensemble records album from across the globe March 7 Understanding body acceptance and community influence in the body posi... March 7 On cusp of retirement, Herman publishes novel with inspiration from fo... Cultural Hot Spots Urban Arts Space The Urban Arts Space encourages transformative experiences that expand worldviews, offer hands-on practical experiences in the arts and education and develop new career skills to reflect an entrepreneurial culture. World Media and Culture Center and Crane Café Globalization is bringing profound changes in the economic, political, technological and cultural lives of nations around the world. These changes influence how education is understood, who it serves, how it is assessed, and how it is implemented. Orton Geological Museum The Orton Geological Museum is located in Orton Hall. Part of the School of Earth Sciences, the Museum plays a key role in teaching, outreach and research. It is open to the public free of charge from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Wexner Center for the Arts Through exhibitions, screenings, performances, artist residencies, and education programs, the Wexner Center for the Arts acts as a forum where established and emerging artists can test ideas and where diverse audiences can participate in cultural experiences that enhance the understanding of the art of our time. Hopkins Hall Gallery Surrounded by walls of glass and natural light, this venue presents a diverse array of exhibitions that inspire collaboration, discussion, and growth among the university community. Museum of Classical Archaeology Classical archaeology is the study of the art, architecture, and culture of the ancient Greeks and Romans, on the basis of their archaeological remains. This museum is designed to provide a significant focus for ongoing teaching, research, and outreach. Sullivant Hall Sullivant Hall brings together multiple arts units on campus, opening up new creative opportunities for students to work together in the visual and performing arts with state-of-the-art teaching, research and performance spaces. Music and Dance Library The Music and Dance Library, situated on the second floor of the 18th Avenue Library, houses approximately 80,000 disc and tape recordings, 130,000 books and scores, 12,000 serials, 5,600 microfilms, and a large collection of DVD and VHS videos. Office of the Dean (614) 292-1667 186 University Hall 230 North Oval Mall Columbus, OH 43210 Advising Office (614) 292-6961 100 Denney Hall 164 Annie & John Glenn Ave. Columbus, OH 43210 Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube RSS ISSUU Give If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this site, please contact us for assistance via email at asc-accessibility@osu.edu. © 2022 The Ohio State University College Of The Arts And Sciences Privacy Policy Login Top