Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation ARTS About Us Welcome Georgia Tech Arts Staff and Contact information Arts Advisory Board Faculty Insight Group Subscribe to the Digital Newsletter Ferst Center Box Office Directions and Parking Facility Rental Accessibility Group Sales Experience Georgia Tech Arts Events Events at the Ferst Center Visual Art on Campus Virtual Events TECHnically Creative Ticket Buzz and Other Discounts Get Creative Contact Us Tickets Donate Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Experience Ticket Buzz DISCOUNT TICKETS TO THE ATLANTA SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA Visit the ASO website to learn how to purchase $5 tickets to select concerts. The ASO does not currently offer a student pass. ART BOX PROGRAM We are living in an increasingly virtual world with performances, workshops, and conversations moved online. But what if Georgia Tech Arts could package up some of these experiences and send them to your home? Georgia Tech Arts is excited to launch its inaugural Art Box Program. You can now own a piece of all that we do with a lovingly curated box of artworks and creative outputs from 2020-2021 Series artists, as well as Georgia Tech alumni and students who you have met through our virtual programming. We commissioned only 20 limited edition boxes, so we encourage you to act quickly to secure your box! Take a peek inside the latest art box! Get Your Art Box The 2020 Art Box is available for $250* and not only supports the participating artists and creatives, but also includes a tax-deductible donation to Georgia Tech Arts. This gift is instrumental in helping us continue bringing artists, performances, installations, and free virtual programming exploring the intersection of arts, science, and technology to you and our community of supporters. *This is a one-time charge and includes a tax-deductible donation of $130 to Georgia Tech Arts. This is one-time gift and purchase, and it does not automatically enroll you in future editions of the Art Box. At check out, there is an option to choose free contactless pickup or $5 domestic shipping. Please note that orders will be shipped out each Friday. Free curbside pick-up can be scheduled for Monday through Friday. Facebook Instagram Twitter Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Arts@Tech 349 Ferst Dr. Atlanta, GA 30332-0468 (404) 894-2787 info@arts.gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login