Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > School of Music > Concerts with Commentary Concerts with Commentary https://youtu.be/9fGiCKe176o MUSIC Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Us The 2021-22 Concerts with Commentary series features award-winning music faculty who not only perform with excellence, but also share the cultural background and historical context of the repertoire and composers represented in the series. Each concert focuses on a different genre, composer or instrument(s). Concerts are free and open to the public. Masks are required. Mark your calendars – we look forward to seeing you! 2021-22 Season RESCHEDULED FOR LATER DATE Thursday, March 10, 2022 7:30 p.m., Meinig Recital Hall Franz Schubert’s Wanderer Fantasy Stuart Deaver, piano Thursday, April 21, 2022 7:30 p.m., Meinig Recital Hall Early 20th Century Minimalism Brady McElligott, bass-baritone and piano Stuart Deaver, piano Thursday, May 5, 2022 7:30 p.m.Meinig Recital Hall Franz Schubert’s Wanderer Fantasy Stuart Deaver, piano Thursday, Nov. 4, 2021 7:30 p.m., Meinig Recital Hall The Great Unaccompanied Sonatas of J.S. Bach Maureen O’Boyle, violin Thursday, Jan. 20, 2022 7:30 p.m., Gussman Concert Hall Vintage Wildflowers in Concert Dana Fitzgerald Maher, Celtic harp, piano, vocals and Irish whistle Audrey McSperitt Schmidt, vocals, guitar, bodhran and flute Abby Bozarth, fiddle, vocals and accordion Thursday, Feb. 10, 2022 7:30 p.m. Claude Debussy’s Cinq Poèmes de Charles Baudelaire Kim Childs, tenor Brady McElligott, piano 2020-21 Season The 2020-21 Concerts with Commentary series were broadcast via the University of Tulsa YouTube Channel. Click the “Watch” link to access the recital. Vintage Wildflowers in Concert November 5, 2020 7:30 p.m. (CST) — Virtual Event (You Tube) Dana Fitzgerald Maher, Celtic harp, piano, vocals and Irish whistle Audrey McSperitt Schmidt, vocals, guitar, bodhran and flute Abby Bozarth, fiddle, vocals and accordion WATCH Schubert Winterreise October 22, 2020 7:30 p.m. (CST) — Virtual Event (YouTube) Kim Childs, tenor Stuart Deaver, piano WATCH French Delicacies January 21, 2021 7:30 p.m. (CST) — Virtual Event (You Tube) Judith Pannill Raiford, soprano Brady McElligott, bass-baritone and piano WATCH Concert Program Concert Translation Beethoven’s Eroica Variations February 4, 2021 7:30 p.m. (CST) — Virtual Event (You Tube) Stuart Deaver, piano WATCH Concert Program It’s a Global Affair April 29, 2021 7:30 p.m. (CST) — Virtual Event (You Tube) Lorelei Barton, harp John Rush, flute Maureen O’Boyle, violin Paulo Eskitch, viola WATCH Concert Program 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT