Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > School of Art, Design and Art History > Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Gussman Juried Student Exhibition https://youtu.be/k3-0hXLYx40 ART, DESIGN & ART HISTORY Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Art Scholarship Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Facilities Faculty News Contact the Department For over half a century, The University of Tulsa’s Gussman Juried Student Exhibition has celebrated the best in student art including ceramics, painting, photography, printmaking, drawing, graphic design and digital media. The Gussman is the capstone exhibit for each academic year where students have the opportunity to be juried by nationally notable artists….Read more about the Gussman Juried Student Exhibition. Gussman 54 Winners Best in Show: Karina Cunningham, Movement Best Digital Illustration: Group Submission, DataBuzz 1st Place: Justin Ortiz, Regresaba 2nd Place: Hayley Rauner, Self Portrait 3rd Place: Katherine Karsten, Sun Puddle 4th Place: Angel Okolie, Confusion Award of Merit Catherine Pinney Shrouder, Therianthrope 1 (Senior) Caroline Karsten, Ripples (Senior) Megan Ames, Flounder Book Cover and Jacket (Senior) Pinky Rossini, Prescence (Senior) Lauren Kerr, Low Tide (Senior) Melanie Owen, Pondering (Senior) Claire Wintle, Self Portrait as a demon (Sophomore) Helen Ly, The Closed Door (Sophomore) Jennifer Casey, Honey Baked Brie (Unknown) Zach Dodson, The Red Haired Girl Looks Away Winning works 2022 Gussman Juror Carolyn Sickles (she/her) is a contemporary arts leader and artist. As Executive Director of Tulsa Artist Fellowship, a cultural initiative of the George Kaiser Family Foundation, Sickles supports an esteemed community of creative practitioners and mobilizes audiences with the transformative power of art. As an independent educator, Sickles has taught workshops for New Museum, Dia Art Foundation, Guggenheim Museum, Textile Arts Center, and e-flux; served as a visiting critic at NARS Foundation, Lower Manhattan Cultural Council, NURTUREart, The Wassaic Project, Residency Unlimited, Mason Gross School of the Arts at Rutgers University, Department of Art and Art Professions at New York University, and Hunter College at City University of New York; guest lectured for Teachers College Columbia University, The New School at Parsons School of Design, Steinhardt School of Education, Culture, and Human Development at New York University, and School of Art, Design and Art History at The University of Tulsa. Her site responsive sculptural objects, often identified by landscape interventions with fibers-based materials, have been exhibited at Material Art Fair (Mexico City, MEX), EFA Project Space and Abrons Arts Center (New York, NY), Brandt Gallery (Boston, MA), H&R Blockspace (Kansas City, MO), Living Room Gallery (Miami, FL), and Whitespace at The Mordes Collection (Palm Beach, FL). Select artist residencies include SHIFT Residency, Elizabeth Foundation for the Arts (New York, NY ) and Artists-in-Landscape Residency, Pine Jog Environmental Center (West Palm Beach, FL). She received a National Association of Women Artists Emerging Artist Award. Curatorial projects include Hidden in Plain Sight, Projekt722 (Brooklyn, NY), Paper Piracy, Northwood EG2 Gallery (Riviera Beach, FL), A Trump in the Dark, Armory Art Center (West Palm Beach, FL). Sickles received a MSEd in Museum Leadership at Bank Street Graduate School of Education and BFA in Sculpture, BA in Art History, and Certificate in Gender Studies while attending programs at Florida Atlantic University, Massachusetts College of Art and Design, and Kansas City Art Institute. Previous arts leadership positions include Director of Visual Arts & Engagement at Abrons Arts Center (New York, NY). Programs under Sickles tenure have received praise from Modern Painters, First American Art Magazine, PBS Art21, World Literature Today, The New York Times, Village Voice, Hyperallergic, Public Radio Tulsa, The Oklahoman, and Tulsa World. Born in the Washington Metropolitan Area and raised in South Florida, Sickles currently lives with her partner, math educator and musician Nathan Pape, and daughter in Osage County, Oklahoma. About the Gussman Juried Student Exhibition On average, over 300 pieces of art are submitted to the Gussman exhibit every year. Around 15,000 works have been submitted in total and approximately 7,500 have received awards. The idea for a juried student-exhibit originated 52 years ago between Herbert Gussman, a Tulsa philanthropist, and Brad Place, the head of the school of art at that time. The two friends wanted some way to validate the students’ artwork and from that simple idea grew the art, design and art history department’s most prominent show. Because the pieces are evaluated by notable working artists in the field, the expected standard of work and the process is more stringent than normal course evaluation, and the selection of the award winners holds more gravitas. Since its inception, the Gussman has been financially supported by the Roseline and Herbert Gussman family. In 2020, the exhibit received an endowment from the Gussman family that will continue this tradition of generosity and excellence. Founded in determination, quality and imagination, the Gussman exhibit began a legacy of supporting and recognizing inspired and thoughtful young artists. Many winners have gone on to be internationally known artists, curators, art educators, a few lawyers and even a senator. But more importantly, it provides a legacy for valuing artistic expression and the creation of art, giving a voice and recognition to the creative spirit that lives inside all of us. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT