Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation ARTS About Us Welcome Georgia Tech Arts Staff and Contact information Arts Advisory Board Faculty Insight Group Subscribe to the Digital Newsletter Ferst Center Box Office Directions and Parking Facility Rental Accessibility Group Sales Experience Georgia Tech Arts Events Events at the Ferst Center Visual Art on Campus Virtual Events TECHnically Creative Ticket Buzz and Other Discounts Get Creative Contact Us Tickets Donate Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Georgia Tech Arts Highlights Faculty and Staff Honors At an award ceremony held on April 29, 2022, the Georgia Tech Arts team received the One Giant Leap Staff Award for the Skyline Series. The nominators noted: At the height of the pandemic, staff members from the Office of the Arts recognized the need for safe, viable venue options for campus performing arts programs. Through their creative collaboration, the Skyline Series was born, creating an accessible outdoor venue equipped with a professional-level stage and outdoor “pod” seating atop a central, scenic parking lot. Learn more about the 2021 Skyline Series Photo - The team accepting their award at the Academy of Medicine, left-right after Skye Duckett, associate vice president and chief human resources officer: Joe Davis, Paul Cottongim, Dorcas Ford-Jones, Rachel Haage, Holley Mitchell, Twanesia Rucker, Elizabeth Geiger, Ben Dostal, and Aaron Shackelford. Arts Plaza Pop-Up The Arts Plaza in front of the Ferst Center for the Arts was filled with creativity in April 2022, during the first-ever Arts Plaza Pop-Up. Georgia Tech Arts partnered with professional artists as well as student groups and campus departments to create multiple opportunities for creativity of all kinds. Students, faculty, and staff dropped by to sit and enjoy the lights and sights, paint a mural, dance at the silent disco, crochet flowers, and so much more! Learn more about the Arts Plaza Pop-Up Photo - Installations from the 2022 Arts Plaza Pop-Up, clockwise from top: Infrastructural Membranes, yarnbombing, and ARTlanta mural. ACCelerate Festival of Creativity and Innovation Georgia Tech has a proud history of being invited to participate in the ACCelerate Festival, a celebration of creative exploration and innovative research happening at the intersection of science, engineering, arts, and design. This year, ACCelerate featured 26 projects from 12 universities and colleges across the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC). Georgia Tech Arts sent two teams to the 2022 ACCelerate Festival and is honored to announce that the People’s Choice Award for Advancing Public Knowledge went to the Georgia Tech team, Walking in the Footsteps of History. Learn more about the teams and the Festival Photo - Walking in the Footsteps of History team member interacting with visitors at the Smithsonian National Museum of American History. Georgia Tech Arts 2021-2022 Performances and Installations Artists working in a range of disciplines, media, and environments were engaged by Georgia Tech Arts during the 2021-2022 academic year. Their work was thought-provoking and adventurous, all brought to life through exquisite artistry. Traveling While Black August 13 - November 15, 2021 In this 20-minute, 360-degree virtual reality experience by award-winning director Roger Ross Williams, participants experienced sitting with African American visitors at the famed Ben’s Chili Bowl in Washington, D.C. as they shared a moment of honest discussion, reflecting on their experiences of restricted movement and race relations in the U.S. Learn more about the Traveling While Black film and installation Terminus Modern Ballet Theatre: InterActions | Boundaries of Sensory Experience October 1, 2021 New York City-based choreographer, dancer, and director Troy Schumacher and Atlanta-based Terminus Modern Ballet Theatre director, John Welker, in collaboration with leading scientists from Georgia Tech and Emory University, invited the audience to step into the creative process and hear how their innovative choreography explores ideas at the forefront of mechanical interventions into the human body and mind. Learn more about the artists and InterActions Kaki King: DATA NOT FOUND October 23, 2021 A composer and musician, Kaki King is considered one of the world’s greatest living guitarists, known both for her technical mastery and for her constant quest to push the boundaries of the instrument. With DATA NOT FOUND, she innovated technologically with cutting-edge audio- responsive software and hardware to ask profoundly human questions about creating meaning in our complex world. Learn more about Kaki and DATA NOT FOUND Gabriel Kahane: Magnificent Bird April 4, 2022 Gabriel Kahane is a singer-songwriter, composer, and multi-instrumentalist who works at the blurred edges of journalism, ethnography, storytelling, and music. Magnificent Bird is his chronicle, in story and song, of the final month of an entire year off the internet. In this intensely personal show, he explored quiet, domestic concerns of marriage, fatherhood, and loss, against the backdrop of a nation and planet in existential crisis. Learn more about Gabriel and Magnificent Bird Community Conversation: Impact, Arts, & Technology Georgia Tech Arts and The Atlanta Opera collaborated to bring together visual and performing artists to examine the role, and impact, of technology in the world of art-making. The lively discussion was moderated by the director of Georgia Tech Arts, Aaron Shackelford, and included Atlanta-based filmmaker Felipe Barral, Georgia Tech assistant professor, Digital Media, Noura Howell, and visiting composer and singer-songwriter, Gabriel Kahane. Learn more about the Community Conversation Campaign to Connect In early 2022, Georgia Tech Arts created the Campaign to Connect to bring the campus community (students, staff, and faculty) into conversation about the work created by our spring 2022 artists-in-residence, and at the same time uplift our spirit and well-being. A Note from Me to You was our first-ever full-circle, campus-wide letter-writing campaign, for which we partnered with student groups, resource organizations, and our visiting performing artists to spread kind words of affirmation. Learn more about A Note from Me to You Home page photo of Kaki King in DATA NOT FOUND courtesy Georgia Tech. All other photo credits Georgia Tech unless noted: Terminus Modern Ballet Theatre and Community Conversation by Felipe Barral; Gabriel Kahane by Jason Quigley; Kaki King by Waleed Shah Facebook Instagram Twitter Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Arts@Tech 349 Ferst Dr. Atlanta, GA 30332-0468 (404) 894-2787 info@arts.gatech.edu Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login