Skip to content Menu About Events For Students For Faculty Campus Art Latest information about COVID-19 Menu About Events For Students For Faculty Campus Art Newsletter Sign Up Stay Connected with the Arts at Stanford Name* First Last Email* Stanford Affiliation* Please select your affiliationStudentStaffFacultyAlumniOther Stanford Graduation year Please enter a number from 1850 to 2050. Announcements & Newsletters (NOTE: ARTS WEEKLY CALENDAR IS ON PAUSE DURING THE PANDEMIC; SEE ARTS@HOME FOR VIRTUAL PROGRAMMING) Weekly Student ArtsUpdate - digest of arts events and student opportunities Student Program Announcements (Students automatically receive these. Select if you are Staff/Faculty) Arts Weekly Calendar - selected arts events, exhibitions, lectures, performances and tours. Arts Monthly News - a monthly bulletin of Stanford arts news and arts alumni news. CAPTCHA By submitting this form, I consent to Stanford University’s collection and use of any data, including personal data, contained in the form for the purposes of evaluating our programs, events and offerings, and better understanding our constituents. Explore other Stanford Arts newsletters: Anderson Collection: a monthly newsletter highlighting news, reviews, and upcoming programs. Cantor Arts Center: a monthly e-newsletter about programs and exhibitions at the museum. Creative Writing Program: receive information about events and opportunities of interest in creative writing. Department of Art & Art History: receive announcements regarding upcoming lectures, exhibitions and film screenings. Department of Music: receive updates about music events weekly or monthly. Department of Theater & Performance Studies: a weekly email with upcoming performances, auditions, lectures and workshops. Humanities Center: a monthly news and events e-newsletter. Institute for Diversity in the Arts: a mailing list detailing IDA events & opportunities. Stanford Libraries ReMix: a monthly e-newsletter for donors and friends of Stanford Libraries. Stanford Live/Bing Concert Hall: a monthly e-newsletter with breaking news and special offers. Quick Links About Stanford Arts Arts District Overview Arts Map Jobs & Internships In The News Arts Directory Art & Art History Creative Writing Dance Design Digital Media Film Music Theater & Performance Vice President for the Arts Office of the Vice President for the Arts Anderson Collection Cantor Arts Center Institute for Diversity in the Arts Stanford Arts Institute Stanford Live Arts Newsletters Newsletter Sign-up Support Stanford Arts Make a Gift Connect with Stanford Arts Scroll To Top Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.