Info for × News Media Inquiries Events Submit an Arts Event Video Replay: 2020 – 2021 Events About Mission & History Prospective Students Visit Us Venues and Studios Opportunities Contact Accessibility Climate & Inclusion Resources Feedback Committee Programs View All Courses Princeton Atelier Creative Writing Dance Music Theater Theater Visual Arts Fellowships People Faculty Fellows Staff Alumni Students Lewis Center Student Advisors Search About Climate & Inclusion Programs People Events News Contact Us Facebook Twitter Google Instagram Search × Current Students View All Courses Funding & Awards Find a Student Advisor Passport to the Arts Prospective Students The Arts @ Princeton Why Study the Arts? Visit Campus Apply Alumni News & Networking Alumni POV Artists Fellowships Visitors Directions Venues and Studios Media / Press Media Inquiries General Information Directory Subscribe to Email Updates Follow @Princeton Arts Facebook Twitter Google Instagram × Programs Show Menu × Music Theater Director’s Note Faculty & Guest Artists Courses Program of Study Current Season Student Participation in Theater Making Student Workshops and Co-Curriculars Student Resources Princeton Playhouse Choir Past Theater + Music Theater Seasons News Events Program in Theater Program in Dance Department of Music “We see all of our music theater students as artist-scholars and scholar-artists. At Princeton, academics and art-making go hand-in-hand.” — Stacy Wolf The Program in Music Theater brings together students, faculty, staff and guest artists in the creation, study, and performance of music theater. In the classroom, we are focused on investigating the history and contemporary landscape of music theater as an intensely collaborative art form, as a key component of world cultures, and as an entertainment genre that shapes and is shaped by history, politics, context, musical forms and technology. In the studio, the rehearsal room and onstage, we are primarily focused on the future of music theater (whether that be musicals, opera, cabaret, experimental music theater, song cycles or otherwise) through fostering the creation of new music theater by students and working with innovative professional artists. The Program in Music Theater is a small part of a large and diverse community of artists, faculty and staff across campus and at the Lewis Center, and we expect students to take advantage of the extraordinary range of course offerings in the Program in Theater, the Program in Dance, and the Department of Music to create their course of study. Academic courses in the Music Theater Program itself range from the study of Sondheim musicals to Latinx musicals on stage and screen. Studio courses have recently included an interactive performance project with Tony-nominated choreographer and director Sam Pinkleton, and a participatory musical written, composed and directed by Cesar Alvarez. Extra-curricular and co-curricular classes and workshops include skills such as singing for the musical stage, theatrical choreography and dance and music direction for musicals. Create and Collaborate in Music Theater: Stacy Wolf, director of Princeton’s Program in Music Theater, and students reveal the many facets of the Program in Music Theater. Most of our productions, in a season shared with the theater program, emerge from proposals by certificate students in their junior year who are seeking the opportunity to write, compose, direct, music direct, perform, design, or stage manage theatrical projects under the guidance of visiting artists and our professional faculty and staff. Typically, these projects are new music theater pieces written or composed by students, or small ensemble or solo music theater projects. Each year, we offer at least one or two additional music theater performance projects led by faculty or guest artists, in the context of classes taken for credit. Usually these projects are new or less well known music theater pieces rather than large scale extant musicals. All theatrical projects in the theater and music theater programs are open for participation by all students at Princeton as performers, run crew, stage management and designers. We present these productions in the Roger S. Berlind ’52 Theatre at the McCarter Theatre Center, and in the on-campus Wallace Black Box and Drapkin Studio, as well as in other traditional and nontraditional venues on campus. In addition, studies are augmented by collaborations with McCarter Theatre as well as travel to nearby New York and Philadelphia to see performances, observe rehearsals, explore archives, and meet artists and scholars. Music theater is a lively part of undergraduate life at Princeton. Extracurricular performances of music theater abound, from the Triangle Club to Princeton University Players to numerous other student groups. Academically, the study of opera has long been a part of the music curriculum. Learn more about Program in Music Theater faculty, news, events, & courses. Upcoming Music Theater Events There are no upcoming events scheduled. Music Theater News May 24, 2022 Lewis Center for the Arts Celebrates the Class of 2022 at Class Day Read More > May 18, 2022 A Year of Returning In-Person to Stages, Studios, Galleries, and Screening Rooms Read More > Apr 28, 2022 Lewis Center for the Arts awards over $152,000 for summer projects in the arts to 57 Princeton students Read More > Apr 27, 2022 Lewis Center for the Arts announces new Student Advisors Read More > Featured Music Theater Videos Questions? For more information about the Program in Music Theater, please contact Joe Fonseca, Program Associate, at 609-258-7810 or jfonseca@princeton.edu, or consult a directory of program staff. Stay Informed Are you a Princeton student interested in theater and music theater opportunities on campus? Please add your name to our list to hear about upcoming events and opportunities on campus. Climate & Inclusion Learn more about the Lewis Center for the Arts' efforts on addressing Climate & Inclusion. Receive Lewis Center Events & News Updates Lewis Arts Complex / 122 Alexander Street Program In Visual Arts / 185 Nassau Street Program In Creative Writing / 6 New South 609.258.1500 lewiscenter@princeton.edu Information For ... Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Artists Media / Press Visitors Opportunities Partnerships & Support Fellowships for Artists Funding for Princeton Students Career Advising & Mentorship High School Contests Post an Event to our Calendar Follow Us Facebook Twitter Google Instagram © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University