Info for × News Media Inquiries Events Submit an Arts Event Video Replay: 2020 – 2021 Events About Mission & History Prospective Students Visit Us Venues and Studios Opportunities Contact Accessibility Climate & Inclusion Resources Feedback Committee Programs View All Courses Princeton Atelier Creative Writing Dance Music Theater Theater Visual Arts Fellowships People Faculty Fellows Staff Alumni Students Lewis Center Student Advisors Search About Climate & Inclusion Programs People Events News Contact Us Facebook Twitter Google Instagram Search × Current Students View All Courses Funding & Awards Find a Student Advisor Passport to the Arts Prospective Students The Arts @ Princeton Why Study the Arts? Visit Campus Apply Alumni News & Networking Alumni POV Artists Fellowships Visitors Directions Venues and Studios Media / Press Media Inquiries General Information Directory Subscribe to Email Updates Follow @Princeton Arts Facebook Twitter Google Instagram × Events Tickets June 3 - 4 Faculty Theater Princeton Actors Collective presents Old Times Event Overview Location Donald G. Drapkin Studio, Lewis Arts complex Admission Open to public; free tickets required Event Times Fri, Jun 3, 2022 · 7:30 pm Cal Sat, Jun 4, 2022 · 2:00 pm Cal The Princeton Actors Collective presents a staged exploration of Old Times by Harold Pinter. This fascinating and complex play examines how the relationship between the past and present overlap, how language can both reveal and obscure the truth, and how the stories we tell ourselves about our lives can change in an instant. Princeton-based actors and Program in Theater guest artists Katharine Powell, Vivia Font, and Ben Steinfeld will share an actor-led investigation of this 1971 masterpiece by one of the most influential playwrights of the 20th century. The Princeton Actors Collective is a newly formed troupe of local professional actors committed to sharing actor-driven, high-quality theater with local audiences. Tickets and Details The performances are free and open to the public. Free tickets required; donations are optional. Reserve tickets online Get directions to the Drapkin Studio and find other venue information for the arts complex. COVID-19 Guidance + Updates Per Princeton University policy, all guests are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 to the maximum extent, which now includes a COVID booster shot for all eligible to receive it, and to wear a mask when indoors. Performers may be unmasked when presenting onstage. Accessibility The event space is wheelchair accessible. Visit our Venues and Studios section for accessibility information at our various locations. Guests in need of access accommodations are invited to contact the Lewis Center at 609-258-5262 or email LewisCenter@princeton.edu at least one week in advance of the event date. Back To Events Calendar Presented By Princeton Actors Collective Tags Theater Free Performance Share Facebook Twitter Related Ben Steinfeld Katharine Powell Roman Vivia Font Receive Lewis Center Events & News Updates Lewis Arts Complex / 122 Alexander Street Program In Visual Arts / 185 Nassau Street Program In Creative Writing / 6 New South 609.258.1500 lewiscenter@princeton.edu Information For ... Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Artists Media / Press Visitors Opportunities Partnerships & Support Fellowships for Artists Funding for Princeton Students Career Advising & Mentorship High School Contests Post an Event to our Calendar Follow Us Facebook Twitter Google Instagram © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University