Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > Environmental Policy Program Environmental Policy Program https://youtu.be/S1WdA3zkT08 Arts, Culture and Entertainment Management Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering and Language Program Medieval and Early Modern Studies Minor Museum Science and Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Program Environmental has evolved into a discipline that seeks remedies for ecological disturbances. Environmental policy majors engage in an interdisciplinary study of humankind’s impact on nature. Those in the field may study policy on polluted areas, advise environmental officials and promote waste reduction in the industry. Environmental policy students combine an understanding of environmental problems with knowledge of human needs, history, politics and economics to derive practical solutions to environmental issues. Students complete core curriculum in the The University of Tulsa’s Kendall College of Arts and Sciences, which emphasizes general knowledge in humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and writing and communication skills. The bachelor of arts/science in environmental policy advances general education through courses in environmental science and public policy. Some requirements include general chemistry, statistics for social sciences, environmental biology, physical geography, elementary economic theory, population ecology, public policy and the environment and economics of the environment. Students can custom design their degree plan based on their area of strength and choose elective courses such as field ecology, plant diversity, environmental anthropology, hazardous substances, constitutional law or environmental issues in developing nations. Through a special arrangement with the TU College of Law, environmental policy undergraduates are permitted to take law courses related to environmental issues. This flexibility allows students to tailor their program and specialize in one of the many environmental fields. Program Objectives Students will: Demonstrate proficiency in both the natural sciences and the social sciences. Develop an ability to connect material between different disciplines with regard to an environmental topic. Become passionate about learning and analyzing environmental challenges. Typical Four Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition and Argumentation First Seminar Mathematics with Applications Block II – Sociological Imagination Beginning Language I Beginning Language II Block I Elective Block II – Principles of Econ I: Macroeconomics College Experience Block III – General Chemistry I + Lab SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Intermediate Language I Intermediate Language II Block II – Principles of Econ II: Microeconomics Intro to Organic Evolutionary Biology + Lab Block III – Physical Geology + Lab Block I Elective Chemistry II + Lab Block II Elective Environment and Humanity Environmentalism JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Population and Ecology US Environmental History Field Ecology Resources and Environment Minor Elective Earth Resources General Elective Minor Elective General Elective General Elective SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Environmental Sociology Applied Econometrics Policy Analysis Environmental Ethics and Conservation Minor Elective History of the Biosphere General Elective Minor Elective General Elective Senior Project Majors Environmental Policy, B.A. Provides students with an understanding of the scientific basis for environmental problems with knowledge of human needs, history, politics, and economics to derive practical solutions to environmental issues. Environmental Policy, B.S. An interdisciplinary program that combines an understanding of the scientific basis for environmental problems with knowledge of human needs, history, politics, and economics to derive practical solutions to environmental issues. Contact the Director Meet the Director of Environmental Policy Program and Professor of Economics Chad Settle. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT