Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > Department of Education > Student Teaching Student Teaching https://youtu.be/nBJ0RZwChY8 EDUCATION Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Faculty News Contact the Department Criteria for Admission into Student Teaching Achievement of a grade-point average of 3.0 in Professional Education courses (Educ 1101, 2103, 3171, 3713, 3733, 4013, and methods courses). Achievement of a grade-point average of 3.0 in major. A 3.0 grade-point average in 90 semester hours of academic coursework prior to application. Cumulative grade point average of 2.75 or better Achievement of at least a “C” in all courses in teaching methods. Satisfactory review of Professional Portfolio by Education adviser. Evidence of field experience with culturally diverse students. Signed statement of knowledge of and compliance with pertinent State laws. Recommendation of the subject area adviser and Education adviser. Recommendation of the Director of the Department of Education. Must have previously been admitted to the Teacher Education Program Must pass the Oklahoma Subject Area Test (OSAT) In addition to meeting the above criteria, transfer students and students with baccalaureate degrees seeking certification must have completed eight hours at The University of Tulsa, including a course in professional education and a course in their teaching field. Student Teaching Placement Achievement of a grade-point average of 3.0 in Professional Education courses is required (Educ 1101, 2103, 3171, 3713, 3733, 4013, and methods courses).For fall placement in student teaching, students should make formal application by March 1 of their junior year. For spring placement, the application should be made by October 1 of the senior year. Application forms, available in the Department of Education, third floor of Chapman Hall, should be completed with the assistance of an education adviser and filed with the Coordinator of Field Experiences following the orientation meeting at the beginning of each semester. Placement and university supervisors are confirmed in the second orientation meeting during the last week of classes of each semester. Senior transfer students and students with baccalaureate degrees seeking certification should apply immediately after their admission to the university. Professional Examinations Students completing programs in elementary education, music, art, English, foreign languages, math, and social studies may apply to the state of Oklahoma for teacher certification. Prospective teachers in Oklahoma must pass the Oklahoma General Education Test (OGET), the appropriate Oklahoma Subject Area Test (OSAT), and the Praxis Performance Assessment of Teachers (PPAT). Complete information and registration bulletins are available from the Department of Education. Oklahoma Professional Teacher Certification During their last semester, students who have passed the appropriate state examinations should make application for a certificate to teach in Oklahoma. changes in regulations can result in changes to the following professional licensing/certification requirements: Baccalaureate degree with a cumulative GPA of 2.50 or higher Completion of the appropriate approved program(s) for the area(s) of specialization in which licensing or certification is sought Completion of student teaching with no grade lower than C and with an average of at least 2.50 or higher in all student teaching courses. (Students who do not receive a C or higher in a student teaching course may petition the Teacher Education Council to repeat student teaching). Satisfactory review of the teaching portfolio. Completion of criminal background check Passing scores on the OGET, OSAT, and OPTE. Students who complete a program in Elementary Education, Deaf Education, Music Education or Exercise and Sports Science Education may apply to the state of Oklahoma through the standard route, in which the Department of Education recommends them for certification. Students completing programs in art, English, foreign languages, math science, speech and drama, and social studies may apply to the state of Oklahoma for the alternative route to certification. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT