Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences English Undergraduate Programs Research TU's early human histories Indigenous lives and stories Decolonizing the curriculum > Department of English and Creative Writing > English Undergraduate Programs https://youtu.be/nBJ0RZwChY8 English & Creative Writing English Undergraduate Programs English Graduate Programs University Writing Program Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Find Admission Counselor Request Information Students in the English Department achieve a breadth of historical and critical exposure, chiefly but not exclusively in British, American and Irish literature and culture. They will study literary technique, style, form, genre, and the Anglo-American literary tradition. Opportunities may include creative writing workshops taught by novelists or poets of national and international reputation. Classes characteristically are small (15-20 students) and emphasize lecture and discussion. Approaches to critical writing go hand in hand with approaches to critical reading and essay examinations and term papers typically are required. Extracurricular life originating in the Faculty of English is rich and varied. An undergraduate literary magazine is published annually, and there are close ties to performances in the Faculties of Theatre and Music, as well as to special programs in related disciplines such as art, communication, foreign languages, and history. In addition, undergraduates benefit from a number of guest lecturers, visiting artists, and special conferences brought to campus each year by the English department. Students who can write clearly and think creatively typically find jobs in a wide range of occupations, many of them located well beyond what is traditionally considered the career path of English or creative writing. Some of the most common jobs are editing/publishing, grant and proposal writing, feature film and television writer and digital copywriter just to name a few. Program Objectives Students who complete the English & Creative Writing degree will: Analyze historically varied Anglophone literary texts. Apply knowledge of critical and creative practices in written, digital, and/or multimodal projects that reflect awareness of the conventions of more than one genre. Produce a body of work that displays proficiency in the students’ chosen area(s) of emphasis and includes a self-assessment of their intellectual and/or creative process. Produce work that responds to ethical dilemmas. Produce work that engages with human and cultural diversity. Organize and/or contribute to a minimum of one project that extends beyond the classroom in engaging cultural discourses. Degree Options English and Creative Writing, B.A. Achieve a breadth of historical and critical exposure, chiefly but not exclusively in British, American and Irish literature and culture. English Minor Non-majors are welcome to minor in English. Creative Writing Minor Non-majors interested in learning more about media studies, English, and film are encouraged to add it to their degree program as a minor. Typical Four Year Schedule FRESHMAN – FALL SEMESTER FRESHMAN – SPRING SEMESTER Exposition and Argumentation First Seminar Beginning Language I Beginning Language II Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Reading Major American Writers Contemporary Mathematics Freshman Experience Reading Major British Writers I SOPHOMORE – FALL SEMESTER SOPHOMORE – SPRING SEMESTER Intermediate Language I Intermediate Language II Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Block I - Aesthetic Inquiry and Creative Experience Block III - Scientific Investigation Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Reading Major British Writers II Block III - Scientific Investigation (lab) English Elective English Elective JUNIOR – FALL SEMESTER JUNIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Block II - Historical and Social Interpretation Post-1800 English Post-1800 English English Elective English Elective Elective Elective Minor Minor Minor SENIOR – FALL SEMESTER SENIOR – SPRING SEMESTER Senior Project in English Elective English Elective Elective Minor Elective Elective Elective Elective Elective * Introduction to College Writing or its equivalent may be a prerequisite in some cases. † The language requirement may be fulfilled with Spanish, German, French or Russian. †† Courses that fulfill Blocks I, II, and III are listed each semester in the advising center and in the university schedule of courses. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT