Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown Arts Institute Secondary Navigation Navigation About News Search Menu Site Navigation Home For Students & Faculty ARTS Courses Grants Student Council Film Hub Request Space Brown Arts Pass For Visitors Directions + Accessibility Spaces Upcoming Events In the Community Artist Development Grant Songwriting Workshop Events + Exhibitions 2021-2022 Highlights On View Past Event Archive Search Brown Arts Institute Songwriting Workshop Breadcrumb Home In the Community Sub Navigation In This Section Artist Development Grant Songwriting Workshop Songwriting Workshop The Brown Arts Institute is pleased to once again sponsor the BAI Songwriting Workshop, a free weekly workshop designed to give students and regional community members a chance to hone their songwriting skills while being part of and contributing to a supportive creative community. The workshop is open to students and community members via an application process. Songwriters of all experience levels and genres are encouraged to apply! Participation is limited, and the selection process is competitive. Deadline for applications is Sunday, September 12 at 6:00 pm. Applicants are expected to be able to attend at least 75% of weekly workshop sessions. The workshops meet weekly on Tuesday evenings, 7:00 – 9:00 pm, in the Granoff Center for the Creative Arts at Brown University, 154 Angell Street, Providence. They are led by Providence-based singer-songwriters Tracie Potochnik and Morgan Johnston. Fall semester workshop meetings begin on September 21 and run through December 7. Participants will have the option to continue for the spring semester, and a number of spots may open up for new songwriters at that time. Workshops will vary from week to week, but generally will include a combination of sharing songs-in-progress and receiving feedback, in-workshop writing exercises, and discussion about various elements of songwriting. End-of-semester concerts will feature workshop participants playing new work. To apply for the BAI Songwriting Workshop, please fill out this application, which asks questions about you and your songwriting. You are asked to provide a link to an example of your songwriting (this can be on SoundCloud, YouTube, Bandcamp, Google Drive, etc.). Space in the workshops is limited and the selection process aims to create a cohesive cohort. For questions about the application process, please contact Tracie Potochnik at tracie.potochnik@gmail.com Tracie Potochnik is a Providence-based singer-songwriter who is half of the duo Cardboard Ox. Writing and performing for over a decade, she's known for songs that tell compelling stories through nuanced lyrics, and has appeared regionally at venues including Club Passim, the Spire Center for the Performing Arts, Common Fence Music, and the Providence Folk Festival main stage. Between her solo and duo work she's released three studio albums, and is currently in the studio with Cardboard Ox. Tracie can be found at www.cardboardoxmusic.com and www.traciepotochnik.com/. Hailing from Rhode Island, Morgan Johnston is an award-winning indie folk singer-songwriter stomping, strumming, speaking, and singing her way to empowering both herself and her listeners. Her lyrics are inspired by the natural landscape of places as much as by the emotional landscape of human experiences. While most often found singing with her guitar, Morgan is known to experiment with different stringed instruments and tunings as well as vocal arrangements on loop pedal. As a music therapist, she is constantly reminded of the healing power of the music she aims to share. More at www.morganjohnstonmusic.com. COVID Updates While we hope the workshop will begin meeting in person in September, we are watching the evolving COVID situation and will work to ensure the safety and wellbeing of all members of the Workshop. If the Workshop is not able to meet in person, sessions will be held remotely on zoom until further notice. All workshop participants must adhere to Brown's COVID safety protocols found here. NOTE: Per Brown University's safety protocols, all participants and facilitators must be vaccinated against COVID-19. Applicants accepted to the workshop will be required to sign a form attesting to their vaccination status, per Brown's policies. Apply Now Apply for the Songwriting Workshop now! Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Instagram Twitter YouTube © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home For Students & Faculty ARTS Courses Grants Student Council Film Hub Request Space Brown Arts Pass For Visitors Directions + Accessibility Spaces Upcoming Events In the Community Artist Development Grant Songwriting Workshop Events + Exhibitions 2021-2022 Highlights On View Past Event Archive Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About News This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Songwriting Workshop Open details for Songwriting Workshop Bookmark this Page