Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Department of Sociology Alumni Advocating Against Military Sexual Trauma 918-631-2236 Chapman Hall, 200 Map Email https://youtu.be/s_SS-sClBmU SOCIOLOGY Sociology Undergraduate Programs Faculty News Contact the Department People spend their entire lives in social groups and networks, ranging from the family to global systems. Sociologists study how these groups and networks work. Developing the ability to analyze society is a core component of anyone’s education and personal development, and thus, the sociology major facilitates any career. In addition, sociology majors can design a specific program of study in preparation for graduate school, professional school (law, business, medicine) and for careers in social service, government, research, consulting, teaching or business. Our close, personal attention to students, both within and outside the classroom, is a major strength of the sociology program at The University of Tulsa. We have a deep commitment to teaching and helping students develop their full potential. Our Mission Our mission is to provide students with a rigorous curriculum in sociology, support students in their academic and professional endeavors, and help them prepare for meaningful work and/or graduate school after graduation. In addition, we aim to support each other as colleagues as we engage in our teaching, research and service activities and to work collaboratively as we continuously create a student-centered department culture. Student Research Research shapes students into critical and analytical thinkers. TU’s Department of Sociology offers endless possibilities for students to step outside their world and research the unknown. Our students ask the tough questions to discover meaningful truths about their subjects and themselves. Learn more. Alumni Sociology prepares students to excel in every facet of society. From social workers to human rights activists, the diverse career opportunities are evident in our alumni. Emory Lazenby Interpersonal violence has been haunting the news headlines, and the desperately needed conversation surrounding victimization is not going away. Emory Lazenby (BA ’12) has dedicated her life to helping women recognize danger signs and learn the tools to escape threatening situations. Lazenby was recently named TU’s Domestic Violence Intervention Services survivor advocate. Read more. Isaac Sanders Issac Sanders social justice interest expands past his undergraduate career. As a self-described social justice warrior, Sanders is attending The University of Kansas to pursue a master’s degree in social work with a macro concentration. Read more. Maria Copp The fight for social justice is not always in the form of protest signs or marches. Tucked away in her eighth-grade reading classroom at East Central Junior High School, TU alumna Maria Copp (BA ‘12) chips away at education inequity. Copp’s fervor against injustice was first stirred in her sociology classes at The University of Tulsa. Read more. Grace Farha Since August of 2016, Grace Farha has been working at FOCUS North America, a Pittsburgh-based nonprofit. FOCUS is many things — resource center, health clinic, food pantry, clothing bank and more. As human services coordinator, Farha conducts initial client interviews to determine how the center can best serve them. Read more. Student & Alumni Blogs In their own words, sociology students and alumni share their adventures studying abroad, learning the ropes at an internship and navigating the job market. Shannon Compton Greetings, current Sociology students! I am a former Sociology student, asked by Dr. Chase to write some things about my occasionally messy path from college to where I am now, so that perhaps you can all glean some lessons from it. Currently, I work as a physical therapist for individuals with traumatic brain injuries. Read more. Margaret Mealy This summer, I was able to do an internship with the non-profit organization, New Hope Oklahoma. New Hope’s primary goal is to end generational incarceration by working with and serving kids who have parents or loved ones in prison. After taking a criminology class about crime and social justice at TU, I was aware of the atrocious state of the criminal justice system and the little known fact that Oklahoma has the largest population of women in prison. Read more. Maureen Haynes In the spring of last year, I happened to venture by one of TU’s job fairs which was being held in one of the rooms at the student union. As freshman, I wasn’t expecting too much, but I wanted to get the lay-of-the-job-fair-land before it would become an infinitely more important experience as an upperclassman. Looking back, I’m glad that I did! Read more. Abbey Marino With tears in my eyes, I looked over the city of Bangkok from a descending aircraft. Still thousands of feet up, my mind swirled with endless possibilities of what could go wrong in the coming months. Five months later, looking down over the same skyline, tears filled my eyes once more as I reflected on the time passed and the personal growth taken place. Read more. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT