Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > Urban rust and renewal through the camera’s eye Urban rust and renewal through the camera’s eye May 25, 2022 Dan Farnum The COVID-19 pandemic has not slowed down Associate Professor of Art/Photography Dan Farnum, who continues to exhibit and publish his images at home and abroad. One of Farnum’s most recent works is included in the Royal Photographic Society (RPS) exhibition traveling across the United Kingdom. Farnum’s contribution to the RPS’s International Photography Exhibition 162 is a print taken from his recent book Young Blood: Growing Up in Michigan’s Auto Towns (2009-2019): This subject captured my attention while I was visiting a DIY skateboard park adjacent to downtown Detroit. I was creating portraits of skaters while they were taking a breather. This guy was off to the side and looked like he was deeply in his own thoughts. “Resting Skateboarder” (from Young Blood and currently in the International Photography Exhibition 162) I make a point to talk with the subjects of my photographs to make sure I learn about them and so they can understand why I am photographing. During the conversation, the skateboarder revealed that his father just passed away. My own father died at about the same age. We talked about how skateboarding was cathartic before I eventually created this portrait. Launched at the New York Art Book Fair at MoMA’s PS1 venue in 2019, Young Blood is a series of images created over the course of 10 years that explore adolescence in the context of deindustrialization in his home state. According to Farnum, “the portraits in my book are a way to challenge stereotypes of cities like Detroit and Flint that are often depicted as vacant, destroyed and dangerous.” Through Farnum’s lens, readers/viewers come to see, instead, “the potential and energy in the region’s young people as communities fight for a better future.” Voice and perspective What drew Farnum to photography in the first place and keeps him both developing his art and teaching with such energy and enthusiasm? “Flower Girls” (from Young Blood) — Two friends on the street in Flint, Michigan, a short distance from a skateboard shop Farnum frequented when he was a teenager First off, Farnum commented, “I love that the medium is accessible to a lot of people. It gives individuals the chance to have an artistic voice and to contribute their perspective.” Second, Farnum is attracted to the fact that photography is “often a misunderstood and slippery medium.” Rather than being a shortcoming, however, he believes this condition “allows for the possibility of subjective approaches to documenting places and situations. I see this as a strength of this discipline.” “I also enjoy the immediacy of a photograph, which is powerful,” said Farnum. “I do not mean that photography is an instantaneous process (not the case). I am talking about the immediacy of seeing a portrait with a high level of clarity or the ability to quickly respond and adapt to current events happening around you as a maker.” Tulsa: New home, old bones Drawing on these multifaceted elements of photography and overlapping with the conclusion of Young Blood, Farnum’s next major project Centennial: Tulsa, OK (2018-current) – is also concerned with cities, decay and revivals. The early steps on this quest were, appropriately enough, carried out while Farnum was a Tulsa Artist Fellow (2019-20). “Reach Out” (from Centennial) — Two location photographs on opposite sides of the I-244 in Tulsa plus a central still-life image of found items gathered from the small threshold between the north and south sides of the expressway “Both projects have gentrification as at least part of the underlying themes, and both touch on issues of the past and present of the two different regions,” said Farnum. “Both are also about economic challenges, stereotypes and social divisions — just done differently.” With Centennial, a version of which was published as a zine by Walls Divide Press, Farnum is responding to the changing landscape and communities that have historical connections to the Tulsa Race Massacre and Indigenous communities, as well as, more broadly, to class and economic divisions. “In this work, I investigate locations, people, and items in parts of our city that are rapidly changing, such as in the Arts District, Greenwood and parts of Kendall-Whittier. Through this series,” he continued, “I wanted to acknowledge a complicated past as well as the need for including community members and preserving regional history during an era that seems hyper-focused on the future.” Imageworker Widely published and exhibited in the United States and around the world, as well as the recipient of numerous awards, Farnum’s lens cap is never on for long. His current projects include additional images related to Centennial, wrapping up another long-term project in Los Angeles called Syndicated and, most recently, a new series that is being worked on in his Tulsa neighborhood during the pandemic. Alongside these creative endeavors, Farnum is also enthusiastic about his role as a teacher, both in terms of what it brings to his students and his own work as an artist. “I can convey my professional experiences to the classroom for students, while also being inspired by the energy of the talented people in my courses,” he noted. “Teaching helps keep me excited and engaged in contemporary art, which in turn fosters ambition and goal-setting for students.” For Farnum, the classroom is a “communal venue,” a dynamic space “where ideas can be born, explored, shared and discussed.” OK, you get the picture! Exploring photography at TU means you’ll learn from some of the world’s best. Start imaging your futures today. Art, Arts & Sciences, Arts and Sciences, Faculty, Featured, News, Research, Stories Dan Farnum, International Photography Exhibition, photography, Royal Photographic Society, Young Blood 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT