Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > School of Art, Design and Art History > Areas of Study Areas of Study https://youtu.be/k3-0hXLYx40 ART, DESIGN & ART HISTORY Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Art Scholarship Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Facilities Faculty News Contact the Department ART HISTORY Art history offers students the opportunity to investigate the art and architecture of diverse time periods and cultures. By teaching critical skills, students can interpret the visual world around them as well as the artistic legacy of the past. Students are not only prepared for exciting careers, but also they have the cultural knowledge and creativity to imagine the jobs of the future. ARTS, CULTURE AND ENTERTAINMENT MANAGEMENT Arts, Culture and Entertainment (ACE) Management is an interdisciplinary program in business, art, culture, entertainment and entrepreneurship. All students complete the same core studies in ACE Management, as well as a set of courses within their selected specialization, tailored to the specialization’s focus and the student’s individual interests. Students choose a specialization in one of the following areas: Visual arts Performing arts Entertainment and commercial arts Cultural and public administration The career success of the program’s graduates is supported by the five separate on-the-job experiences each student gains. These experiences may be completed locally, regionally, nationally, and/or internationally, including a funded experience in London, exclusive to ACE Management. Learn more. MOTION GRAPHICS AND ANIMATION The Motion Graphics and Animation program focuses on creative communication using digital technologies as a tool to produce original works of art. Utilizing state-of-the-art software and equipment in our labs, students practice digital imaging, interactive multimedia, time-based media, 3D modeling and computer graphics. Students investigate conceptual and perceptual possibilities as they engage in alternative art discourses within historic and contemporary contexts. Digital media is an exciting discipline where dynamic, ambitious, self-motivated students push themselves, their vision, and their artwork. GRAPHIC DESIGN Graphic design offers students a chance to learn the creative process in traditional and new media, software skills, and design responsibility, skills which place students at the heart of design thinking and innovation. Students participate in variety of courses including, print and digital design, motion graphics and animation, typography, book design, package design, branding and advertising. Classwork helps designers find their own voice and perspective in today’s design world. PAINTING Artists in the painting program establish a visual dialogue of looking and responding in order to create a painted statement. Students create a contemporary voice by seeing themselves in the context of the tradition of painting. The painting program is organized to give painters the opportunity to make personal discoveries and to elaborate on those discoveries in their studios. The program emphasizes studio work that is assessed through individual and group critiques as well as critiques provided by visiting artists. PHOTOGRAPHY The photography program focuses on the development of a student’s voice and the mastery of skills related to artistic image-making. Photography students learn both film and digital processes. Students also explore conceptual trends associated with the medium so that they may participate in contemporary developments in photography. Students who complete the program enter the art world as dynamic critical thinkers and highly trained practitioners. PRINTMAKING The printmaking curriculum is designed to give students a comprehensive experience within the medium, with regular courses offered in monotype and relief, lithography, etching, silkscreen and photomechanical/digital processes. Students explore the boundaries of print media through courses in traditional techniques as well as more experimental applications and mixed-media. Through an interdisciplinary approach, students learn to create their own visual language. Students routinely engage with visiting artists and participate in workshops and exhibitions. CERAMICS Students establish a solid foundation of technical and intellectual skills in our sculptural-based learning environment. Develop your own artistic voice by uniting influences from the world around you with your individuality. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT