Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > Advertising Minor Advertising Minor https://youtu.be/efbJNKj9Zkc MEDIA STUDIES Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Faculty News Contact the Department TU’s popular Advertising Program is part of the Department of Media Studies and the School of Art, Design and Art History. This interdisciplinary program emphasizes advertising, public relations, digital media, graphic design and persuasion. Students take a comprehensive look into industry demands to cultivate skills and abilities that employers look for in today’s candidates like creativity, innovation, entrepreneurship and leadership. The curriculum will increase concentration on writing, public speaking and persuasion. Exceptional communication skills tops the qualities employers most often seek. The advertising program raises the bar to ensure TU graduates are ready to meet those demands. Program Objectives Students will learn practical application of the fields in communication and design through the required courses. Specific skill development pertains to the following: Digital Painting—Learn techniques and visual vocabulary of contemporary illustration, focusing on today’s dominant image generating applications. Graphics Communication— Introduction to Graphic Design as a medium of visual communication. Students learn the effectiveness of visual communication and its practices in the professional world today. Principles of Advertising—Learn the mass media and the marketing process by surveying the historical aspect of advertising, creative production, and media planning. Media and Concept Strategy— Learn advanced levels of creative concept and media evaluation with emphasis placed on market/consumer/media research, concept brain storming, competitive analysis and print and broadcast creative executions. Branding—Study the perceptions, real or imagined, that exist in the marketplace and influence buying behaviors. Third Floor Design Third Floor Design is a TU student-operated graphic design agency. It produces pro bono promotional materials for non-profit arts and social service agencies—logos, posters, fliers, brochures, invitations, letterhead and other collateral material. Graphic Design Professor M. Teresa Valero co-created the agency in 1992. It matches TU art students to Tulsa’s non-profit organizations where students learn the rewards of volunteerism. Working in the agency, they earn credit, and thus Third Floor Design serves as part of the curriculum. Learn more. TUTV Media Lab The TUTV Media Lab is a student-run media collaborative with a weekly studio program, podcasts and opportunities for students to create their own project ideas using media. Learn more Minor Advertising Minor Designed to compliment a degree in Communication, Film, English, Languages, or Theatre. Contact Meet the Department Chairperson of Media Studies Ben Peters Meet the Director of the School of Art, Design, and Art History Michelle Martin 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT