Skip to main content Toggle navigation About Mission and History Vice Provost for the Arts Our Staff Arts in Durham Support Duke Arts Academics Departments Art, Art History & Visual Studies Dance Music Theater Studies Concentrations, Minors & Certificates Cinematic Arts Creative Writing Documentary Studies Innovation & Entrepreneurship Theology and The Arts Graduate Arts Programs PhD/MA in Computational Media, Arts & Cultures MFA in Dance: Embodied Interdisciplinary Praxis MFA in Experimental and Documentary Arts PhD/MA in Music Composition Study Away Duke-In Programs Spaces & Places Arts Across Duke Map Nasher Museum of Art Duke Performances Center for Documentary Studies Full Frame Documentary Film Festival Power Plant Gallery Duke Chapel Sarah P. Duke Gardens Rubenstein Arts Center Mary Lou Williams Center for Black Culture Duke Arts Annex American Dance Festival Kenan Institute for Ethics Campus Gallery Spaces Campus Center Art Collection Opportunities For Faculty, Students & Staff Arts Project Residencies Support for Visiting Artists For Students Academic Advising in the Arts Creative Arts Student Teams (CASTs) Creative Arts Grants Leadership and Arts Policy Internship Grants The Robert E. Pristo Filmmaking Awards StudioDuke DEMAN Lounge Duke Arts Awards Benenson Awards in the Arts Louis Sudler Prize The Graywill Award Events & News Events All Arts Events DukeCreate Arts Workshops DEMAN Live Episodes University Box Office News & Stories All News Community Duke Entertainment, Media & Arts Network Student Arts Groups Mural Durham Artstigators Forum for Scholars & Publics Duke Initiatives in Theology & the Arts El Sistema USA Partnership Durham Medical Orchestra Duke University String School Toggle Search Search for: art and artists are essential Warning: It looks like JavaScript is currently disabled. Please be aware that some features of this website will not work as intended. Duke Arts Annex Mural Durham transformed the satellites at the Duke Arts Annex. Learn how. About The Arts Annex is a hub of Duke’s student art scene and houses studio arts (including ceramics, screen printing, and visual arts), rehearsal, and programming spaces. We strive to build a vibrant community by providing resources, programming, and a welcoming environment that inspires self-expression, exploration and collaboration. Throughout the academic year, the Arts Annex hosts the  DukeCreate workshop series  and welcomes student groups and programs. Admission and materials are free to all current Duke students. DukeCreate Director Kevin Erixson shows students how to access the Arts Annex under coronavirus guidelines (Fall 2020). Duke students can drop by the Arts Annex to use its open studios and art supplies for free. The Annex is located at 404 Gattis Street (off of bus routes C1, C2 and CSW). Because the majority of the resources at the Arts Annex are funded by student activity fees we welcome faculty and staff to use the space but request that they bring their own non-reusable supplies (canvas, clay, inks, etc.). If a student brings a non-Duke friend with them to the Annex, we ask that their friend follow our faculty and staff guidelines. Community members are welcome to attend the Arts Annex on DukeCreate community days (dates listed under “Community” in our semester schedule) as well as any large-scale public event hosted at the Arts Annex. Arts Annex on Facebook Hands-On Arts DukeCreate in the Arts Annex Take a free arts workshop in the Arts Annex taught by a Duke graduate student or a local artist. Supplies included! take a workshop Arts Annex Snapshots Growing a culture for the arts at Duke. Sign up for our newsletter About Mission and History Vice Provost for the Arts Our Staff Arts in Durham Support Duke Arts Academics Departments Art, Art History & Visual Studies Dance Music Theater Studies Concentrations, Minors & Certificates Cinematic Arts Creative Writing Documentary Studies Innovation & Entrepreneurship Theology and The Arts Graduate Arts Programs PhD/MA in Computational Media, Arts & Cultures MFA in Dance: Embodied Interdisciplinary Praxis MFA in Experimental and Documentary Arts PhD/MA in Music Composition Study Away Duke-In Programs Spaces & Places Arts Across Duke Map Nasher Museum of Art Duke Performances Center for Documentary Studies Full Frame Documentary Film Festival Power Plant Gallery Duke Chapel Sarah P. Duke Gardens Rubenstein Arts Center Mary Lou Williams Center for Black Culture Duke Arts Annex American Dance Festival Kenan Institute for Ethics Campus Gallery Spaces Campus Center Art Collection Opportunities For Faculty, Students & Staff Arts Project Residencies Support for Visiting Artists For Students Academic Advising in the Arts Creative Arts Student Teams (CASTs) Creative Arts Grants Leadership and Arts Policy Internship Grants The Robert E. Pristo Filmmaking Awards StudioDuke DEMAN Lounge Duke Arts Awards Benenson Awards in the Arts Louis Sudler Prize The Graywill Award Events & News Events All Arts Events DukeCreate Arts Workshops DEMAN Live Episodes University Box Office News & Stories All News Community Duke Entertainment, Media & Arts Network Student Arts Groups Mural Durham Artstigators Forum for Scholars & Publics Duke Initiatives in Theology & the Arts El Sistema USA Partnership Durham Medical Orchestra Duke University String School Copyright © 2022 Duke University. All rights reserved.