Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply Welcome The Artists’ Resource Center (ARC) is a portal containing specially curated funding opportunities and career resources for students and alumni at the Columbia University School of the Arts. Available exclusively to School of the Arts students and alumni, the ARC is host to a database of more than 1,100 grants, scholarships, residencies, and other funding opportunities for artists. The ARC also contains resources for professional artists, from financial and legal services to grantwriting tips and information about joining guilds and unions. Students and alumni can log into the ARC with their UNI and password. If you need to reset your password, you can do so using this link. Emergency Grants and Additional Resources Please click here for a list of resources as well as information on how the ARC can help School of the Arts students and alumni. ARC Appointments Need help applying for a residency? An extra pair of eyes to look over your resume or grant proposal? ARC Fellows have assisted many School of the Arts students and alumni in financing artistic ventures and funding their education. Schedule an appointment (in person or by phone) by filling out this online appointment request form. Workshops and Events The ARC hosts a number of professional development workshops and events throughout the year. Past events include: - How to Research Scholarships, Grants, Fellowships and Project Funds - Basic Grant Writing - Resume Development for Arts-related, Academic and “Day” Job Searches - Interviewing Skills - Life Skills 101: Medical Insurance, Rental Insurance, and Legal Services - Media Networking Night - Alumni Artist Panels Login Contact To access the Artists’ Resource Center, visit www.arc.columbia.edu. Questions about the ARC? Email [email protected] or call 212-854-2761. Newsletter The ARC distributes a monthly e-newsletter that lists professional opportunities and upcoming funding deadlines that may be of interest to students and alumni. If you need to be added to the ARC newsletter distribution list, please send your preferred email address to [email protected] ARC Mailing List The ARC compiles and distributes job and internship listings as well as other professional opportunities on a weekly basis. Enrolled students are automatically subscribed. Alumni can subscribe at https://lists.columbia.edu/mailman/listinfo/arc-soa-alumni. News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University