Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply IAC Exhibition Artists: What Do We Do Now? (2016) Photo by Joel Jares Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) IAC Board Members Student Groups and Events EXPLORE Welcome Founded in Spring 2003, the Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) is the official representative student council of Columbia University School of the Arts. Our mission is to promote interdisciplinary dialogue and collaboration, foster a nurturing community, and advocate for the needs of the Columbia School of the Arts student body. Email [email protected] for more information. Our Student Funding Application is open. You can submit your application below. Student Funding Application Form History In 2003, the Interdisciplinary Arts Council was founded in response to a call from both students and administrators for the creation of an organization to represent the entire student body. As the School of the Arts was striving to become more interdisciplinary, the need for a school-wide organization became increasingly clear. Originally called the Graduate Arts Council, a committee of students was formed to promote interdisciplinary dialogue and collaboration, foster a nurturing community, and advocate for the needs of the Columbia School of the Arts student body. This committee was charged with disbursing the Student Activities Fund through events, activities, and funding programs. Over the years, the programs and activities of the IAC have continued to expand and change, always with the mission in mind. Download IAC Constitution Student Group Spotlight: IAC Student Group Spotlight: IAC March 6, 2017 Periodically, we’ll be spotlighting various student organizations within Columbia’s School of the Arts. read more (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University