Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences English Graduate Programs Achievement Fulbright Scholar Research Decadence and the Occult > Department of English and Creative Writing > English Graduate Programs https://youtu.be/mFdoXYbkKv0 English & Creative Writing English Undergraduate Programs English Graduate Programs University Writing Program Faculty News Contact the Department Apply Now Request Information Graduate study in English Language and Literature at The University of Tulsa is nationally recognized and well subscribed. Students train as teachers, scholars, writers, to advance in existing careers and to become professors and research writers in specific literary fields. Students work closely with graduate faculty in small seminars that average eight students, in one-on-one independent and directed readings, and in workshops on writing and teaching. There are no required courses or courses of study. Instead, students choose from among the seminars offered each semester according to their individual interests and particular professional needs. Special interest tutorials often supplement graduate seminars. M.A. and Ph.D. students are encouraged to work in the full range of subjects defined by our faculty’s expertise and by our internationally renowned archival holdings of manuscripts and books in McFarlin Library. Check out our Newsletters to learn more: Spring 2019 English Graduate Newsletter, Fall 2018 English Graduate Newsletter and Spring 2018 English Graduate Student Newsletter. Program Objectives MASTER OF ARTS IN ENGLISH AND LITERATURE When students complete the M.A. they should be able to: Create independent work that analyzes, evaluates, and synthesizes aspects of Anglophone literature. Understand, analyze, and evaluate diverse areas of Anglophone literature. Understand, analyze, and evaluate diverse ethical values presented in a range of literary works. Write and present effectively about issues in the field. Understand and apply ethical guidelines for work in the field. DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY IN ENGLISH AND LITERATURE When students complete the Ph.D. they should be able to: Create sustained, publishable scholarly work in the field. Demonstrate expertise in two sub-disciplines through evaluation, analysis, and synthesis of works in the field. Analyze, evaluate, and synthesize diverse ethical values presented in a range of literary works. Write and present effectively to professional audiences about issues in the field. Understand and apply ethical guidelines for work in the field. Degree Options English Language & Literature, M.A. Provides both opportunities for creative expression and professional preparation for teaching and for doctoral study and scholarly research. English Language & Literature, Ph.D. Designed to develop knowledgeable scholars, critics, and teachers of English literature. Academic Journals The University of Tulsa hosts many academic journals and publications that are referenced around the world. Two distinguished academic journals, The James Joyce Quarterly and Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature, are edited and published under the auspices of the department, and the innovative web-based Modernist Journals Project, a collaboration between Brown University and The University of Tulsa, is directed from the department. Undergraduate internships are available at the MJP and both journals and at the international literary journal Nimrod. Learn more. James Joyce Quarterly Nimrod International Journal Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature The Modernist Journals Project Stylus Journal of Art & Writing Research at TU The University of Tulsa is well known for its extensive archival holdings, making it an ideal location for graduate study. The Helmerich Center for American Research at Gilcrease Museum houses the Gilcrease Library and Archive containing more than 100,000 rare books, documents, maps and unpublished works. In addition, Special Collections at the University of Tulsa’s McFarlin Library holds manuscripts, personal papers and first editions that rank alongside those of Harvard, Yale, and the Ransom Humanities Research Center as the preeminent archives of twentieth-century literature in the world. Learn more. Professional Opportunities University and college teaching Elementary and high school teaching Marketing and communications Public relations Publishing and editing Writing for the culture industries Non-profit work Grant and technical writing Job Placement The English Department boasts a stellar 80% job placement rate, thanks to the firm emphasis faculty place on professional development. Throughout their graduate careers, students build résumés for both academic and non-academic careers, helping ensure their success on the job market. Faculty encourage students to diversify their skill sets through a variety of fellowship assignments, including teaching composition and/or literature through the TU Writing Program; tutoring students in various disciplines at the Writing Centre and elsewhere on campus; working for one of our literary journals; or interning with other TU divisions, such as Marketing & Communications, Global Scholars and McFarlin Library. All students receive close personal attention from faculty, who ensure that they develop marketable skills and training. A designated faculty member serves as departmental job officer, assisting graduate students with application materials, mock interviews, and finding employment/fellowship opportunities. In the last 10 years, The University of Tulsa English department has awarded over 40 doctorates. Of these PhD recipients, 65% hold permanent jobs in academia, 20% hold adjunct positions in academia and 15% have gone on to careers in business, publishing, the nonprofit sector and high school instruction. Some recent MA & PhD graduates’ employment College careers Carolos Acoste-Ponse (PhD 2020), Assistant Professor, Buena Vista University David Chandler (PhD 2016), Professor, Tulsa Community College Megan Gibson (PhD 2019), Adjunct Instructor, University of Tulsa Matthew Kochis (PhD 2016), Associate Professor, Mercer County Community College Sungjin Jang (PhD 2016), Assistant Professor, Chung-Ang University, South Korea Jina Moon (PhD 2016), Assistant Professor, Kumo National Institute of Technology, South Korea Annie Paige (PhD 2020), Assistant Professor, Tulsa Community College Amy Pezelle (PhD 2020), Assistant Professor, Tulsa Community College Marie Sartain (PhD 2021), Adjunct Instructor, University of Cincinnati Margaret Salifu (PhD 2017), Instructor, Northern Virginia Community College, Manassas Ashley Schoppe (PhD 2017), Assistant Professor, Pfeiffer University Ryan Slesinger (PhD 2018), Visiting Assistant Professor of English, Oklahoma State University Elementary and high school teaching Blake Connelly (PhD, 2021), Jenks High School Amber Drew (MA 2021), Mingo Valley Christian College Preparatory School Stewart Habig (PhD, 2018), Street School Tulsa Katie Miller (PhD, 2017), Harding Fine Arts Academy, Oklahoma City Joseph Willis (PhD 2017), Pryor Public School Administration and culture industries Harrison Brockwell (MA 2020), Production Assistant, News on 6, Tulsa Danielle Calhoun (MA 2021), Academic Advisor, the College of Arts and Sciences, University of Texas, Tyler Hannah Covington (MA 2016), Reporter, Minneapolis Star Tribune Nicholas McMillan (MA 2017), Data and Systems Analyst, Family and Children Services of Oklahoma Mark Rideout (PhD 2017), Associate Director, Writing Program, University of Tulsa Lindi Smith (PhD 2017), Senior Digital Editor, Dallas County Community College Greg Stone (PhD 2015), Associate Vice President, Academic Affairs, Tulsa Community College Further studies Dayne Riley (PhD 2020), English, The University of Tulsa postdoctoral fellow Laura Thomas (PhD 2020), English, The University of Tulsa postdoctoral fellow Muriel Unseth (MA 2021), Fullbright Fellow, Czech Republic Application Requirements To be considered for graduate admission, the following items must be submitted to the Graduate School: A completed Graduate School application Statement of Purpose (admission essay) 10 – 20 page academic writing sample 2 – 3 letters of recommendation from individuals who can comment on your academic potential. Official or unofficial transcripts from all universities attended $60 application fee International students who studied at a university outside of the U.S. will also need to submit TOEFL or IELTS results 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT