Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply Frequently Asked Questions How do the Admissions Committees view graduate work and/or professional experience? While the School of the Arts does not require applicants to have an advanced degree or professional work experience, applicants who do are certainly considered positively in the review process, and such achievements may enhance their candidacy for admission. What is the current tuition? Tuition for the current academic year is detailed here. Please note that this amount is likely to increase each year. How do students pay for their degrees? Is there financial aid available? How do I apply for it? Columbia University School of the Arts and Columbia University Student Financial Services work carefully with students to arrange the financing of their degrees. Loan packages, fellowships, scholarships and other options are available for eligible students. Please see Financing Your Degree for information and important financial aid application procedures and deadlines. My undergraduate degree is in something unrelated to what I want to study at the graduate level. Does that make a difference? The School of the Arts receives applications from students with a wide variety of undergraduate backgrounds. Applicants do not need to have a comprehensive academic background or extensive professional experience in their field, but they must demonstrate familiarity with major issues and artists. Can I speak with a faculty member or current student? Sit in on classes? If you are interested in meeting with a faculty member from the program to which you are applying, please speak to the Admissions Office. However, please note that due to the volume of applicants, faculty members may not be able to meet with prospective students. We are happy to arrange for you to speak with a current student who can give you insight into the School of the Arts program in which you're interested, campus life and living in New York City. Please email [email protected] or call 212-854-2134 to schedule an appointment. Unfortunately, it is not possible for prospective students to sit in on classes. Are campus visits and/or tours available? School of the Arts admissions representatives are happy to meet with prospective students to discuss programs and admissions policies and procedures. Please email [email protected] or call 212-854-2134 to schedule an appointment. The Visual Arts Program offers tours of facilities during the academic year; please see this page for more information. No other programs offer departmental tours, however, Columbia University offers full campus tours daily. Please see the Visitor Information page for schedules. Virtual tours of School of the Arts facilities are available below. Morningside Heights Campus Virtual Tour | Manhattanville Campus Virtual Tour Is there printed information for the programs offered by the School of the Arts? All information can be found on our website. For additional information, please fill out our Request for Information form or email us at [email protected]. What if my recommendations or transcripts are sent directly to the Admissions Office and not included in my primary online application? Please see the Admissions page for all information on materials submission. Can I apply to more than one program? Yes. Please see the Application to Two Programs section of the Application and Admissions Policies page. Is there student housing available? Columbia University Apartment Housing consists of a limited number of apartment shares, dormitory-style rooms and a very limited number of one-bedroom, studio and family units for which priority is given to couples and families. This housing is primarily located within walking distance of the campus in the Morningside Heights neighborhood. Applications for Columbia University Apartment Housing are made only after a student has been admitted, and are handled by the University Apartment Housing (UAH) Office. Please see the Housing page for more information. How do I check the status of my application? You can check the status of your application and supporting documents, including letters of recommendation, by going to the Status page in the online application. You will be able to view all documents processed thus far. This page will be updated periodically. Application materials that are not submitted through the online application system make take up to two weeks to be updated on your application checklist. Can I schedule an interview to discuss my candidacy? All interviews are scheduled at the discretion of the committee; you will be contacted directly if an interview is requested. How do I apply? You apply using the online application, where you will provide your personal information and all supporting materials. Please see the Admissions and Financial Aid page for information. Can I be enrolled in more than one program? You may only enroll in one degree program at a time, even if you are accepted into more than one. The only exception to this is the joint JD/MFA Theatre Management and Producing Program. Can I apply for spring admission? The School of the Arts welcomes applications for the fall semester of each year only; no students are admitted for the spring semester. Does the School of the Arts provide portfolio or application material review? The School of the Arts unfortunately does not provide portfolio or application material reviews. News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University