Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > Department of Philosophy and Religion > Bell Distinguished Lectureship Bell Distinguished Lectureship https://youtu.be/nBJ0RZwChY8 PHILOSOPHY & RELIGION Programs Lectures Faculty News Contact the Department The William and Rita Bell Lecture is a yearly feature housed in the Kendall College of Arts and Sciences. Begun in the spring of 1991, the program consists of lectures with a distinguished visiting professor joining the university faculty every fourth semester. The lectures focus on a topic generally related to Anglican and Ecumenical concerns, and the faculty appointment is made in either the Departments of Philosophy and Religion, English and/or History. The Rita and William H. Bell Professorship in Anglican and Ecumenical Studies was created in memory of the late William H. Bell, trustee emeritus of The University of Tulsa and individual trustee for the Chapman-McFarlin charitable trust complex. The professorship also honors his widow, Rita Bell, as well as the Anglican faith and personal commitment to ecumenism of J. A. Chapman and Leta M. Chapman. Approximately every fourth semester, a distinguished visiting professor is brought to campus to teach and to present a public lecture. 2019 LECTURE – Jane Shaw Professor Jane Shaw is Principal of Harris Manchester College, Professor of the History of Religion and Pro Vice-Chancellor at The University of Oxford. Professor Shaw is a historian, whose research and writing cover a number of areas: modern religion; the arts; gender; and the impact of technology on society. She is the author of several books, including Miracles in Enlightenment England (Yale 2006) and Octavia, Daughter of God: the Story of a Female Messiah and her Followers (Jonathan Cape and Yale, 2011). She is currently writing a book about spirituality and religion in the early twentieth century and is also co-writing a book on the arts and social change with the actress and playwright, Anna Deavere Smith, with whom she has collaborated on a number of projects. Professor Shaw is a member of two research teams for projects based at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University: one on the new moral economy and artificial intelligence, and the other on the iGeneration (18 – 22-year-olds), their values and use of technology. She serves on the advisory board for Stanford University Libraries. Past Lecturers 1991 – The Right Rev. Lord Robert Runcie 1992 – Prof. Alfred Corn 1993 – The Right Rev. Edmond L. Browning 1994 – The Rev. Prof. Robert Farrar Capon 1995 – Prof. Robert Kinloch Massie, Jr. 1996 – The Hon. John C. Danforth 1997 – The Rev. Prof. Keith Ward 1999 – The Right Rev. Craig B. Anderson 2000 – Prof. Martha Reeves 2001 – The American Boy Choir 2002 – Prof. Alfred Corn 2003 – Prof. Charles Kimball 2004 – The Right Hon. Lord George Carey 2007 – Dr. Barry Morgan 2009 – Marilyn McCord Adams 2014 – Sarah Coakley Past Visiting Professors Spring 1991 – Richard E. Wentz Fall 1992 – Alfred Corn Fall 1994 – Robert Farrar Capon Spring 1997- Keith Ward Spring 2000 – Martha Reeves Fall-Spring 2001-2002 Alfred Corn Spring 2005 – Tim Fuller Spring 2006 – Charles Kimrall Fall 2008 – Robert McMahon Fall 2010 – David Corey 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT