Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Arts & Humanities Division custom google font script Contact HOME About Welcome from the Dean Recent A&H News Dean & Divisional Staff Mission Statement Contact Departments & Centers Departments & Degree Programs Centers & Museums Programs & Initiatives A&H Strategic Planning Process The I-HUM Project Faculty Liaisons for Inclusive Excellence SHARP Student Gallery Crawl Taliesin Prize Undergraduate Scholars Initiative Resources Calendar A&H Climate Surveys For Faculty & Staff For Students Arts & Humanities for Students Visit the dedicated A&H website for students! A&H Strategic Planning Process Diversity & Inclusion at Harvard The Taliesin Prize for Distinction in the Art of Learning The Division of Arts & Humanities is one of the four academic divisions of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences at Harvard University. Led by Dean Robin Kelsey, the Shirley Carter Burden Professor of Photography and Dean of Arts & Humanities, the Division is made up of fifteen departments, four interdisciplinary undergraduate degree programs, and multiple secondary fields. We also oversee a number of Centers and interdisciplinary initiatives. The faculty, staff, and students that make up the Division are dedicated to pursuing and promoting the wonders and values of aesthetic and humanistic learning. We strive to cultivate an inclusive community of curious, intrepid, compassionate, and socially engaged learners. Recent A&H News Karthik Pandian, Assistant Professor of Art, Film, and Visual Studies, has received a 2022 Creative Capital Award for his experimental film Lucid Decapitation. The Awards fund the creation of new and innovative projects by artists working in the performing arts, visual arts, film, technology, literature, and socially engaged and multidisciplinary practices. Assistant Professor of Art, Film, and Visual Studies Elle Pérez and AFVS Visiting Lecturers Dominga Sotomayor and Akosua Adoma Owusu have been selected for participation in the 2022 Venice Biennale. The 59th International Art Exhibition, The Milk of Dreams, will take place from 23 April to 27 November 2022 (pre-opening on 20, 21 and 22 April), and is curated by Cecilia Alemani. Byron and Anita Wien Professor of Drama and of English and Comparative Literature Martin Puchner has been selected to receive a Carl Friedrich von Siemens Research Award of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation. This award is conferred in recognition of the award winner’s entire academic record to date. The Center for Jewish Studies is thrilled to announce the release of Emet, an undergraduate literary journal in Jewish studies, during the first week of April. They are grateful for the efforts of students Shoshana Boardman, Matt Jelen, and JJ Kimche (and alum Wilfried Zibell) and the collaboration of Harvard Hillel in making this happen. When it is ready, a digital version will be available on the CJS website. For more news read our quarterly A&H Newsletters! Upcoming Events & Deadlines 2022 Jun 17 University Holiday (All day) 2022 Jun 20 University Holiday: Juneteenth (observed) (All day) 2022 Jul 01 University Holiday (All day) 2022 Jul 01 Deadline: Manuscript Workshop Grants for Tenure-Track Faculty (All day) 2022 Jul 04 University Holiday: Independence Day (All day) 2022 Aug 31 Fall Term Begins (All day) More 2468b6e6abd7429d01203e8b4ba57575 Powered by Curator.io Why Study Arts & Humanities Follow four Harvard undergraduates as they discuss their motivation for pursuing a concentration in the Arts & Humanities. At Harvard, the arts and humanities cover all of the various ways people express, define, and understand themselves and the world. Spotlight on the Humanities at Harvard News from the Harvard Gazette Arts & Humanities Division University Hall 2nd Floor North Cambridge, MA 02138 df48ab66c7124cbb5ff00116abba1d23 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement