Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Lorton Performance Center Hours Monday-Friday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Phone 918-631-5235 Location 550 South Gary Place Map https://youtu.be/9fGiCKe176o MUSIC Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Us The Roxana Rózsa and Robert Eugene Lorton Performance Center, located at 550 S. Gary Place just west of Harvard between 5th and 8th Streets on the beautiful University of Tulsa campus, is TU’s showcase facility for the musical and performance arts. Completed in 2011 as part of the Embrace the Future fundraising campaign which raised more than $698,000,000, the building serves as home to the School of Music and the Department of Film Studies. The 77,000-square-foot state-of-the-art facility includes the Herbert and Roseline Gussman Concert Hall with seating for 635 on two floors, as well as a full performance stage with ballet floor, scenery fly and trap room, a hydraulic orchestra pit, and the most technologically current theatrical lighting and acoustical control booths. Upon arriving at the Lorton Performance Center guests enter the 6,000-square-foot Ann and Jack Graves Grand Hall, an elegant and spacious lobby which serves as an art gallery and pre-function space for receptions and similar gatherings. The Nancy E. and Peter C. Meinig Recital Hall, located at the north end of the building, accommodates 88 guests in fixed seating with flip-desktops, making this an ideal music and film classroom setting as well as a venue for recitals, meetings, presentations and performances. On the opposite end of the building is the George Kaiser Family Foundation Rehearsal Hall where instrumental music is learned and rehearsed through jazz, percussion, brass and other music studies. The Lorton Performance Center also houses spacious faculty offices and studios for the School of Music and the Department of Film Studies; specialized rehearsal and practice rooms designed to accommodate groups of various sizes; classrooms and seminar rooms; an electronic piano laboratory; the Dr. Jacob W. Jorishie Practice Suites, individual practice rooms for vocal and instrumental instruction; the Peggy Dow Helmerich Post-Production Lab for film scoring and editing; dressing suites complete with a green room and VIP lounge, as well as shower and laundry facilities; ample space for theatrical set and instrument storage; a costume shop and a scenery staging room; catering kitchen; ticket office; and dramatic colonnade featuring distinctive two-story Gothic arches that overlook a sweeping front lawn leading up to Harvard Avenue. Many other very generous donors helped complete the most ambitious building project in TU history, enhancing TU’s outreach to the community and further solidifying TU’s mission since 1907 as a cornerstone of Tulsa’s cultural enrichment. The Lorton Performance Center fosters collaboration among artists of all discipline, connecting visitors to TU’s productions with a top-quality experience from the front door to the curtain call. A new season of cultural enrichment awaits for your enjoyment. Venue Availability The Lorton Performance Center is available for public use and offers the following services. Accessibility Special Needs The Lorton Performance Center is completely ADA compliant and fully accessible to guests with special needs. Complimentary assisted listening devices, handicap-accessible seating on both floors and an elevator are available to make your experience convenient and enjoyable. Parking Unmetered parking is available on a first-come, first-served basis in the lots surrounding the Lorton Performance Center: North LPC, East LPC and Harvard LPC Lots. Additional parking is also available in lots located farther from the building and on some city streets as marked. All campus parking lots include handicap spaces. Please be advised that on athletic game days/nights, ALL University of Tulsa lots are reserved for game patrons and access will be allowed to those lots with a game ticket only. The event calendar has been scheduled around these dates as much as possible, but changes in scheduling sometimes occurs so LPC patrons should visit the Tulsa Hurricane website to verify game schedules and plan accordingly. Performance Technical assistance and limited lighting design is available as part of the rental agreement. More extensive technical needs and set and/or lighting design can be hired through Lorton Performance Center staff, or through outside labor which will be coordinated by LPC staff at client cost. A specialized logo light display commonly called a “GOBO” can also be purchased for display in Gussman Concert Hall prior to performances or presentations; this also is coordinated through LPC staff at client cost. Specialized A/V equipment, podiums or furnishings, props or other staging needs outside of LPC inventory can be rented locally through LPC staff at client cost. A box office is available for ticketed events and staff may be hired through LPC staff at client cost. Ticketed events through myticketoffice.com are subject to the fees and requirements of this service. Digital promotion of special events is available at no charge on LPC digital displays located on the first and second floors. Clients can provide 1080 x 1920 vertically-formatted PNG files by contacting the LPC staff. Complimentary assisted listening devices, handicap-accessible seating on both floors and an elevator provide access for special needs guests. Hospitality Reservations and special requirements for venues, events, performances, etc. are coordinated through the LPC staff. The Green Room at Lorton Performance Center is available for VIP performers and can be outfitted with preferred amenities either through the client or through campus dining services, at client cost. Furnishings such as tables, chairs, table coverings, banquet stations, specialized lighting, etc., as required by event, can be rented at client cost. Custom bar stations customized to the interior of Graves Grand Hall are provided for special events at no charge, as well as limited furnishings such as registration tables, chairs and coat racks. A coat check room is available for client use; coat check and valet services can be hired at client cost as preferred. Pre-function performance, i.e. a jazz band trio or string quartet, can be hired at client cost and coordinated through LPC staff. Food-based events must be catered by campus dining services unless an exemption is allowed. Menus, policies, forms and contact information can be found on the Event Planning page. Other specific needs or services can be determined by contacting the LPC staff. Tours may be scheduled by appointment by contacting the LPC staff to arrange reservations. Reservation Requests Please submit reservation requests a minimum of ten (10) business days prior to the event date. Event Planning at TU Contact the Staff of LPC Lorton Performance Center The University of Tulsa 800 South Tucker Drive Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104 Physical Address: 550 S. Gary Place 918-631-5235 Your Name Email* Phone Message* This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT