Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply Image via Unsplash Visual Arts News Highlights From Columbia University’s MFA Thesis Exhibition Highlights From Columbia University’s MFA Thesis Exhibition May 18, 2022 Every corner and crevice of Columbia University’s MFA Thesis show feels lived in, reflecting not just artists’ experience quarantining with their work, but also that of re-entering society. read more Theatre News 'Goddess' by Jocelyn Bioh '08 and Saheem Ali '07 Premieres at the Berkeley Rep 'Goddess' by Jocelyn Bioh '08 and Saheem Ali '07 Premieres at the Berkeley Rep May 16, 2022 Inspired by the myth of Marimba, Goddess follows a young man who returns home to Mombasa, Kenya to marry his fiancée and step into his family’s political dynasty. read more Writing News HarperCollins to Publish 'Flight' by Professor Lynn Steger Strong HarperCollins to Publish 'Flight' by Professor Lynn Steger Strong May 10, 2022 Strong's latest novel follows a family gathering in upstate New York during Christmas after the death of the family's mother. Old resentments arise as siblings Henry, Kate, and Martin and their spouses attempt to perform holiday rituals and settle their mother's estate. read more Film News Columbia Filmmakers Among 2022 Aspen Shortsfest Winners Columbia Filmmakers Among 2022 Aspen Shortsfest Winners May 5, 2022 Two Columbia filmmakers were awarded honors at the 2022 Aspen Shortsfest. They are: Olive Nwosu ’21 and Adjunct Assistant Professor Harris Doran. read more Sound Art Alumnus Nolan Lem '15 Featured in Solo Show Alumnus Nolan Lem '15 Featured in Solo Show April 5, 2022 Sound Art alumnus Nolan Lem ‘15 is featured in a solo show, Surface Song, at Eks-Rummet Gallery in Copenhagen, Denmark. read more Revolt, Resist, Defy! Exhibition in the LeRoy Neiman Gallery (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares (c) Joel Jares Repair | Fall 2020 Traversing media and disciplines, the 2020–21 season of Public Programs and Engagement at Columbia University School of the Arts will focus on the concept of Repair. more Upcoming Events May 20 How to Gild an Eagle Lenfest Center for the Arts 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 (enter on 125th Street, west of Broadway) 2:30 PM Donna and Matt Walker face the impending foreclosure of their family store and inn when Lana Usman, an immigrant single mother, offers them a deal that gives them a chance to stay. How To Gild An Eagle is a play about what it takes to belong and what one must sacrifice to hang on to past legacies. read more June 2 Good Things Happen Lenfest Center for the Arts 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 (enter on 125th Street, west of Broadway) 2:30 PM A working class mother finds a bag of stolen money - more than she could ever hope to earn in her lifetime. But what does the average mom even do with that much cash? And how far will she stretch her moral compass if it means making her family’s wildest dreams come true? "Good Things Happen" is a nostalgic neo-noir chock full of blue collar crime, money laundering, VHS tapes, phonebook deliveries, manifestation, and pepperoni pizza. read more June 7 - 8 Women and the Silent Screen XI: Women, Cinema, and World Migration (Virtual) Online 12:00 AM Show-and-tells, panels, and roundtables on Asian-specific topics will stimulate discussions on parallels between the historical women who “pioneered” in national film industries and contemporary filmmakers and artists. Speakers will include Asia-based contemporary makers who are interested in historical issues and have worked in Asia and global regions. (Titles will be available to screen on Vimeo.) read more THE YEAR OF WATER News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University