Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences About the College of Arts & Sciences https://youtu.be/o0vHvYU0rEg ABOUT Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Our Alumni Internship opportunities TU’s Kendall College of Arts and Sciences provides a broad foundation of study in the fine and performing arts, languages, education and social sciences. Our students explore the humanities and can structure an independent study course tailored to their academic goals. Our alumni go on to exciting careers – working in Congress, making films, writing novels and composing symphonies – and find themselves conducting research and setting policy in Tulsa, Washington, France, Ireland, Jordan, China and Hungary. Our Mission Kendall College of Arts and Sciences provides the core of a TU education and the intellectual foundation for life in a free and democratic society. We seek to produce and disseminate knowledge and artistic expression at the highest levels, drawing on the unique opportunities provided by a student-centered learning community within a research university. The college’s rigorous curriculum challenges, enriches and expands students’ conceptions of the world, preparing them to ask compelling questions, address complex problems with creative solutions, engage respectfully and knowledgeably with diverse people and their cultures, speak and write persuasively and professionally, and contribute to the advancement of society in productive and meaningful ways. Points of Pride 94% placement rates in jobs or graduate school Since 1991, there have been 365 Presidential Scholars. In the past seven years, 288 Arts & Science students traveled abroad to more than 42 countries. Since 1980, 39 Arts & Sciences professors received the TU Outstanding Teacher Award. 20 Arts & Science students received research grant awards (2016-2017) Students have won competitive awards such as: Harry S. Truman Scholarship, Marshall Scholarship, Fullbright Scholarship and the Vance and Betty Lee Stickell Student Internship Kendall College is home to six award winning journals: James Joyce Quarterly, Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature, Russian Studies in History, Nimrod: International Journal of Prose and Poetry, Journal of Modern Periodical Studies and the student journal Stylus. Kendall College alumni include: author Rilla Askew, Emmy-winning student director Chase Chambers, Chief of Operations at the CIA’s Counterterrorism Center Monte Hawkins, author S.E. Hinton, actor Wesam Keesh, actor and producer Julius Tennon, Saturday Night Live writer and Emmy winner Steven Castillo and actor Wade Williams Students go on to pursue graduate studies at leading universities: Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Columbia, Oxford and Chicago to name a few. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT