Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply Visual Arts + Sound Art Degrees MFA Sound Art Program Graduate Courses & Requirements Undergraduate Information Application Requirements Faculty Students Alumni Resources FAQ Thesis Exhibitions LeRoy Neiman Center for Print Studies The LeRoy Neiman Gallery News Events EXPLORE Highlights From Columbia University’s MFA Thesis Exhibition Highlights From Columbia University’s MFA Thesis Exhibition May 18, 2022 Every corner and crevice of Columbia University’s MFA Thesis show feels lived in, reflecting not just artists’ experience quarantining with their work, but also that of re-entering society. read more Visual Arts Graduates Present New Works at the Jewish Museum Visual Arts Graduates Present New Works at the Jewish Museum May 13, 2022 Students have been tasked with producing new art work that responds to the Jewish Museum’s current exhibition, Jonas Mekas: The Camera Was Always Running, the first American museum survey of the Lithuanian-born artist who helped shape the avant-garde in New York City. read more American Art Abounding: Columbia Artists Stand Out at the 80th Whitney Biennial American Art Abounding: Columbia Artists Stand Out at the 80th Whitney Biennial May 6, 2022 As a celebration of contemporary American art, the Whitney Biennial is the longest-running exhibition of its kind. This 80th edition accounts for the multifarious politics, precarity, and beauty of the present moment. The exhibition is open to the public, and will run until September 2022. read more Three Current Students Shortlisted for the Frankenthaler Climate Art Awards Three Current Students Shortlisted for the Frankenthaler Climate Art Awards May 4, 2022 Three current Visual Arts students, Linnéa Gad, Vivian Vivas, and Char Jeré, were shortlisted for the Frankenthaler Climate Art Awards. read more Tara Greer '97 Featured in Solo Show at Planthouse Tara Greer '97 Featured in Solo Show at Planthouse May 3, 2022 Visual Arts alumna Tara Geer ‘97 is featured in a solo show, Strangely Blooming, at Planthouse in New York City. This show will be on view from April 21 until May 21, 2022. read more Visual Arts Alumnus Vikram Divecha '19 in Solo Show Visual Arts Alumnus Vikram Divecha '19 in Solo Show April 27, 2022 Alumnus Vikram Divecha ‘19 is featured in a solo show at Gallery Isabelle van den Eynde in Dubai. This show, El Dorado, will remain on view until May 1, 2022 and will be his third solo show at the gallery. read more Alumnus Khari Turner '21 in Solo Show at the Museum of Wisconsin Art Alumnus Khari Turner '21 in Solo Show at the Museum of Wisconsin Art April 25, 2022 Mirroring Reflection at the Museum of Wisconsin Art (MOWA) will be on view from April 30 to July 10, 2022. read more VA Student Elzie Williams III Named 2022 'Lion of Social Justice' VA Student Elzie Williams III Named 2022 'Lion of Social Justice' April 22, 2022 Columbia News is proud to highlight a few of the many students graduating this year who are passionate about social justice in all its forms. They are people for whom this passion informs both their work at the university and their future hopes and dreams. read more Professor Nathan Catlin Featured in Solo Show at Davidson Gallery Professor Nathan Catlin Featured in Solo Show at Davidson Gallery April 19, 2022 Adjunct Assistant Professor and Master Printer at the Neiman Center for Print Studies Nathan Catlin ’12 is featured in a solo show, What Goes on Behind a Windowpane. This exhibition of new works is on view at Davidson Gallery in New York City until April 30, 2022. read more Adjunct Assistant Professor Yasi Alipour '18 in Solo Show at Twelve Gates Arts Adjunct Assistant Professor Yasi Alipour '18 in Solo Show at Twelve Gates Arts April 12, 2022 The Pleasure of Futile Cycles opened on March 29, 2022 and remain on view until April 23. read more Announcements More news News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University