Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply 2017 Thesis Opening, © Joel Jares Office of Development Giving Opportunities Ways to Give Dean's Council Support the Next Generation of Artists Make a Gift Matching Program EXPLORE Support the School of the Arts Students come to Columbia University School of the Arts to focus intensely on their practice in visual arts, writing, theatre, and film. Students attend because of the extraordinary mentorship they receive from the renowned faculty, the lifelong collaborations they forge with their classmates, and the great access to the arts world centered in New York that they experience. These artists will go on to become the leaders of their generation of writers, filmmakers, theatre practitioners, and visual artists, creating work that helps us make sense of turbulent times such as these. Now is the time to strengthen Columbia University’s renowned School of the Arts, so that its artists can emerge uniquely prepared to engage such important global concerns. Contact Us [email protected] (212) 854-4849 Roberta W. Albert Associate Dean for Development [email protected] For those mailing payments, please use this address: Columbia Alumni Center - Attn: Gift Systems 622 West 113th Street, MC 4524 New York, NY 10025 Give Now Support the Next Generation of Artists At this moment of unprecedented challenges, we are doubling our efforts to recruit and support our student artists. Over the next five years, we will partner with extraordinary alumni, families, and friends to raise 50 new full scholarships for student artists at Columbia. Every gift from our donors is meaningful and signals the belief that artists and their work are essential to society. more Support the Next Generation of Artists Matching Program Columbia University School of the Arts is pleased to announce the launch of a Matching Program for endowed fellowship gifts. more Student Relief Help build the Student Relief Fund, which provides much-needed relief for emergency travel, rent relief, groceries, and more. more Student Support for Fellowship Make a gift towards student fellowships through the Student Support Fund—one of the most valuable ways to impact School of the Arts students. more Student Productions Support art production directly by providing funds for student projects. Gifts will help emerging artists create the work that will launch their careers. more News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University