Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply To New York With Love: Remembering Jonas Mekas Feb 21- Mar 15, 2019 Opening reception: Friday, Mar 1 5-7pm The eighth exhibition in the Up Against the Wall MotherF***** series organized by Tomas Vu and Rirkrit Tiravanija. Jonas Mekas (1922-2019) is today considered "the godfather of American avant-garde cinema." Mekas was born in 1922 in the farming village of Semeniškiai, Lithuania. In 1944, he and his brother Adolfas were taken by the Nazis to a forced labor camp in Elmshorn, Germany. After the War he studied philosophy at the University of Mainz. At the end of 1949 the UN Refugee Organization brought both brothers to New York City, where they settled down in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Two weeks after his arrival in New York, Jonas bought a Bolex camera and began to record brief moments of his life. He soon became deeply involved in the American Avant Garde film movement. He founded the Anthology Film Archives, on the Lower East Side, NYC, in 1969 with Jerome Hill, Adams Sitney, Peter Kubelka and Stan Brakhage. Mekas was invited to the Neiman Center in 2009 to produce a serial portfolio of images excerpted from his film footage and diaristic work - Walden (Diaries, Notes, and Sketches), 1969 amongst others. The project resolved as a grouping of images, mostly shot in the 1970s in New York City. The portfolio's title, To New York With Love, is a loving tribute to the city - a gift of poetic reminiscent images. Exhibition curators Tomas Vu and Rirkrit Tiravanija count Mekas as a hero and an inspiration. On the eve of his passing Vu and Tiravanija present To New York With Love—an exhibition in the Up Against the Wall MotherF***** series—as a tribute to the life and work of this pioneer. Event Time & Date Date: Past Event Location: Leroy Neiman Gallery 310 Dodge Hall 2960 Broadway New York, NY 10027 News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University