Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Programs Faculty Q&A with Professor Hittinger, an American scholar close to Pope Francis Research A Forgotten Author, Remembered > Department of Philosophy and Religion > Programs https://youtu.be/nBJ0RZwChY8 PHILOSOPHY & RELIGION Programs Lectures Faculty News Contact the Department The minor offered in philosophy and religion is designed to deepen the understanding of humanity’s personal and cultural experience. Students may profit from these courses regardless of their major field of study or career intentions. The belief and practices of religious humanity, past and present, are treated in the course offerings of this faculty. Philosophy explores the most fundamental questions about human life, including the nature and meaning of the basic elements of human experience and the limits of knowledge. These offerings include introductory courses of interest to the general student and courses in the following curriculum areas: the Bible and literature; ethics and society; and philosophy and religion. The course of study encourages a critical approach to religious texts and traditions, emphasizing literary, historical, philosophical, theological, and moral inquiries. The course of study introduces students to the great thinkers and ideas that have shaped our past and present culture. Students develop a variety of important intellectual skills, including critical thinking and evaluation, the ability to see implications and alternatives, to read and write with insight and logical precision, and to undertake graduate and professional studies. <!– Students of Philosophy will explore the moral and political philosophy, philosophy of logic, philosophy of language, the history of analytic philosophy, ancient philosophy, Kant and Wittgenstein to name a few. Faculty will help students articulate in speaking and writing clearly, in thinking and reasoning clearly and draw connections among the many ideas that abound. Courses are taught in the following curriculum areas: the Bible; early Christian thought; medieval Christian and Jewish thought; studies in Catholicism, Protestantism and Judaism; ethics and society; church-state relations; and philosophy and religion. Like other degree programs in the humanities, the Bachelor of Arts in religion cultivates the habits of mind one needs in order to think and write with care and precision, and prepares one for graduate and professional studies. –> Program Objectives LEARNING OBJECTIVES Students will develop an understanding of how great thinkers and ideas in philosophy and religion, with an emphasis on philosophical traditions, have shaped our culture. Students will develop analytic and interpretive reading skills by reading texts in philosophy and religion, with an emphasis on philosophical traditions. As a result, students will develop a variety of important intellectual skills, including critical thinking and evaluation, the ability to see implications and alternatives, and to read and write with insight and persuasive power. RELIGION Outcomes for Learning Objective 1 Students on track to complete the undergraduate program in Philosophy and Religion will be able to demonstrate and understanding of tensions in religious traditions. Students on track to complete the undergraduate program in Philosophy and Religion will be able to interpret and evaluate masterpieces of religious traditions. Students on track to complete the undergraduate program in Philosophy and Religion will be able to demonstrate knowledge of central movements, arguments, and approaches of religious traditions. Outcomes for Learning Objective 2 Students on track to complete the major in Philosophy and Religion will be able to demonstrate reading comprehension of conceptually dense, logically complex religious texts with sensitivity to their context. Students on track to complete the undergraduate program in Philosophy and Religion will be able to demonstrate a grasp of the arguments advanced in lectures, discussions and assigned readings. Students on track to complete the undergraduate program in Philosophy and Religion will be able to produce critical analyses and evaluations of religious texts, demonstrating sensitivity to the conceptual nuances and counter-arguments introduced in readings and discussions. Program Options Philosophy and Religion Minor Students interested in learning more about philosophy and religion are encouraged to add it to their degree program as a minor. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT