Skip to content COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK Search for: Contact Us Support Us Arts Initiative at Columbia University Search for: Free & Discounted Tickets Performances Museums Movies Events Events Calendar Columbia Nights Morningside Lights Museum Exhibitions For Students Student Arts Grants Ticket Your Event Submit Your Event For Faculty ArtsLink About Mission & Team About the TIC Contact Us Support Us ArtsLink ArtsLink Complement your curriculum with vibrant arts experiences around New York City Spring 2022 Note ArtsLink is paused in accordance with Columbia University's current COVID-19 guidance for off-campus group gatherings. Columbians attending a performance at Carnegie Hall | Credit: Fadi Kheir Complement your curriculum with vibrant arts experiences around New York City. ArtsLink is a concierge service for University faculty through which our team can help arrange group orders and manage the logistics of outings to performances, exhibitions, or other arts events around the city. How does ArtsLink work? How can a professor take part in ArtsLink? Professors may submit our online form to request that we procure tickets for one event per class per semester. Events can be performances or museum tours at most venues and museums in the city. Just ask, and we’ll look into it for you. How do students purchase their tickets? Professors can either choose to purchase all tickets up front and distribute them directly to students in class, or have students purchase tickets individually through the Ticket and Information Center (TIC) in Lerner Hall. Will there be enough tickets for all students in the class? We will purchase the number of tickets specified on the request form – remember to include yourself, other faculty, and TAs in your count. Those tickets will be held until the specified purchase deadline. Can students from multiple sections/classes attend the same performance? Your class(es) can attend the same night or two different nights depending on your preference. We will do our best to reserve a block of adjacent seats, but sometimes the group will be seated in the same approximate section. Can students bring a friend to an ArtsLink event? Although the events themselves are open to the public, an ArtsLink event, like a discussion section for a course, is assigned to augment classroom instruction and is limited to students registered for that course. What is the cancellation policy? If an event is cancelled by the presenting organization, and the presenter offers refunds, we will pass the refund through to all ticket buyers. Credit card fees cannot be refunded, even due to cancelled events. Stay Up to Date on the Latest Events and Ticket Info © 2022 Columbia University Arts Initiative Arts Initiative at Columbia University 202 Dodge Hall, MC 1801 New York, New York 10027 (212) 851-9574 artsinitiative@columbia.edu The Ticket and Information Center is closed for summer break, and will reopen in fall 2022. © 2022 Columbia University Arts Initiative