Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > Research > Faculty Research Faculty Research https://youtu.be/CSsGZlGccmw RESEARCH Faculty Research Undergraduate Research The Kendall College of Arts & Sciences faculty advance discovery and solve real-world problems while producing the next generation of leaders. They have published hundreds of books and thousands of articles and are internationally known for their scholarship and creative endeavors. Although we cannot begin to showcase everyone, here are a few faculty research project highlights. Elana Newman Sirens wail as a story of trauma unfolds, but before the ambulances arrive, journalists are already on the scene. Journalists are not traditional first responders, but during a tragedy, they are the eyes and ears of the community, which means they cannot look away. TU McFarlin Professor of Psychology Elana Newman is the research director at the Dart Center for Journalism and Trauma. Read more. Ben Peters As a universe of infinite exploration, the internet is the new world frontier, but America has merely skimmed the undeveloped potential of cyberspace. In his new book, How Not to Network a Nation: The Uneasy History of the Soviet Internet, Assistant Professor of Media Studies Ben Peters explains why America pioneered the internet before the Soviet Union, but he also highlights the Soviets’ innovative ideas that could reimagine the confines of the internet. Read more. Miriam Belmaker Miriam Belmaker asks questions. As an assistant professor of anthropology, she has dedicated her life to bold and intrinsic questions on human evolution. What makes us human? This summer, Belmaker traveled to Kazakhstan and South China in search of answers. Read more. Joseph Rivers E.W. Marland was a risk taker. From oil drilling to running for political office, Marland bid high and let fortune write his story. Seventy-six years after his death, TU’s J. Donald Feagin Professor of Music and Professor of Film Studies Joseph Rivers sets that story to music in the documentary “High Stakes: The Life and Times of E.W. Marland.” Read more. Dennis Denisoff How have humans understood their intimacy with nature? And how have they tried to explain its mysterious hold over us? In his most recent books, Decadent Ecology in British Literature and Art, 1860-1910 (Cambridge UP, 2022) and Arthur Machen: Decadent and Occult Works (MHRA, 2018), McFarlin Chair of English Dennis Denisoff brings the environmental humanities in contact with modern pagan and occult culture. Read more. Gaurav Kampani Gaurav Kampani does not like gaps in research, and with his 2017 Faculty Development Summer Fellowship, he seeks to fill in some answers by investigating the second nuclear arms race and India’s civil-military relations. “A lot of research comes out of the irritation of wanting to do something better or seeing something that needs to be fixed,” Kampani said. Read more. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT