Skip to main content 4 events this week Visit Events Current Events Past Events About Venues Lenfest Kids Calendar Make a Gift New Plays Festival 2022 Eärendil, Our Most Beloved Star Season Spring 2022 Upcoming Events Thursday, June 09, 2022, 2:30PM Saturday, June 11, 2022, 2:30PM Venue Lenfest Center for the Arts 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 (enter on 125th Street, west of Broadway) Tickets Tickets Share Thursday, June 9 @ 2:30 pm Saturday, June [email protected] 2:30 pm by Adam North Directed by Ana Liza Muravina Jimmy Byers, a failed startup founder, gets a job working for reclusive billionaire Felix Marshall, whose investment portfolio includes everything from banking apps to cryonics. The strange requirements of the job include a regimented diet, constant travel, and no actual work. A queer gothic story set in the tech world, Eärendil, Our Most Beloved Star explores the nature of transactional relationships, and whether humanity has commodified everything, right down to the heart. Tickets SEE THE FULL 2022 NEW PLAYS FESTIVAL SCHEDULE About the Artist Adam North is a New York based playwright from Virginia. Plays include Central Air (Winner: [email protected] Reading Series Competition, Semi-finalist: O’Neill Playwrights Conference); Full Course Menu (Fresh Fruit Festival 2020, Winner: Best Performance, Act One One Act Fest), Spin ([email protected] Finalist), Home Delivery (New Harmony Project Finalist, Geffen Theater Annex), and dance theater projects such as NeverWonderLand (Ovation Award Nomination) and The Jungle Book (Miles Memorial Playhouse). In 2020, Adam was commissioned to write libretti for Life, Liberty, Happiness, an opera in three acts with composers David T. Little, Nico Muhly, and Jeanine Tesori (Fun Home). Adam is currently writing a live, three-hour show for Virgin Voyages, Richard Branson’s new cruise line. Adam co-wrote and co-directed Complete Works, a comedy series about a National Shakespeare Competition that aired on Hulu in 2013. During his time in Los Angeles, Adam also worked as a feature film development executive at Columbia Pictures and Activision Blizzard Studios. At one point, he was also a PA on The Apprentice. Adam has an MFA in Film Producing and a BA in English Literature, both from University of Southern California, and an MFA in Playwriting from Columbia University. Lenfest Center for the Arts 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 · Privacy Policy · Press · Past Events · Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge Follow Us © Columbia University 2022 · · Nondiscrimination · Employment