Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Department of Education Faculty The Impact of Emergency Teacher Certifications 918-631-2236 Chapman Hall, 300 Map Email https://youtu.be/nBJ0RZwChY8 EDUCATION Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Faculty News Contact the Department The Department of Education offers bachelor’s degree programs that lead to careers in K-12 teaching, as well as master’s degree programs for those interested in pursuing or advancing their careers as teachers, policymakers and researchers. The department offers a curriculum that is founded in the arts and sciences and integrated with education courses, field and clinical experiences and content specialization programs that draw upon the expertise of faculty from other disciplines such as exercise and sports science, instrumental and vocal music education and foreign languages. The education curriculum is designed to prepare teaching professionals. The University of Tulsa Department of Education is committed to cultivating effective teachers who are critical thinkers, skillful learners, caring community partners, and engaged democratic citizens. The department fulfills this mission through its program learning outcomes, ensuring that students who complete a program in education will be able to: Demonstrate mastery of the central concepts and tools of inquiry of their discipline(s) Plan research-based instruction that advances the learning of each student Utilize research-based pedagogy that advances the learning of each student Design curriculum based on state and national standards Demonstrate mastery of the assessment cycle as a component of teaching Demonstrate an understanding of the processes of human development and learning Demonstrate a commitment to ongoing professional development Promote the success of each student based on a demonstrated understanding of the socio-cultural, historical and institutional contexts of education. Educator preparatory programs at the University of Tulsa are accredited by the Oklahoma Office of Educational Quality and Accountability. Cooperating Teachers The TU Department of Education school partners include approximately 10 districts and 25 urban, suburban, and rural schools that provide candidates with opportunities to receive continuous exposure to diverse school environments and potential employers. Cooperating Teachers are essential partners in preparing our candidates to teach. Cooperating Teachers are selected through a collaborative process between TU and school partners. There are three basic requirements for serving as a Cooperating Teacher: at least three years of teaching experience, status of highly qualified and certified in the area in which they teach, and good standing in their school and district. Principals recommend Cooperating Teachers based on their knowledge of teachers’ positive impact on P-12 student learning and development as well as their potential to serve as positive mentors for candidates. Cooperating Teachers attend both an orientation training session at the beginning of each semester and a celebration at the conclusion of the semester. At the orientation, teachers learn about the student teaching model, their responsibilities, and expectations for student teachers. Additionally, Cooperating Teachers are trained in using the CPAST, the student teaching evaluation tool. Please see below for resources to prepare Cooperating Teachers for their role. Research on the CPAST The PPAT Cooperating Teacher Handbook 10 Tips on How to Effectively Mentor New Teachers Partnerships Education students benefit from the school’s collaboration and partnerships with other components of TU’s academic and service community: University School for academically gifted children STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) Summer programs for students and teachers Continuing Education/Lifelong Learning True Blue Neighbors Kendall-Whittier Elementary School Communication Sciences & Disorders (Speech Language Pathology) TU’s Center for Community Development and Research (CCRD) Gilcrease Museum Henry Zarrow Center for Arts and Education Global Alliance Center English Programs for International Studies Title II Reports For information on the Title II Reports, click here. Program Completer Outcome and Impact Measures State and national accreditors require that all educator preparation programs publicly report eight outcome and impact measures. To learn more. Mandatory Professional Licensure Disclosure U.S. Federal Regulations, 34 CFR § 668.50 (2016 Rules), in preparation for the adoption of 34 C.F.R. §668.43 (2019 Rules), and in compliance with the State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (SARA) Manual version 19.2, The University of Tulsa provides the following disclosure related to the educational requirements for professional licensure and certification. To learn more. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT