Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences > About > Office of the Dean Office of the Dean https://youtu.be/nBJ0RZwChY8 ABOUT Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Our Alumni Internship opportunities Karen Petersen Dean Karen Petersen was named dean of The University of Tulsa’s Kendall College of Arts and Sciences in 2021. She previously served as dean of liberal arts and professor of political science at Middle Tennessee State University (MTSU). Petersen received her doctorate in political science from Vanderbilt University in 2004. She earned her bachelor’s degree in international relations from MTSU and her master’s degree in political science from Vanderbilt. Petersen’s publications include journal articles on the causes of interstate conflict, terrorism, the federal courts, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and pedagogical issues related to online learning as well as high-impact practices. She teaches courses in international relations and comparative politics with an area specialization in international conflict. Petersen co-developed an education abroad course on Israeli politics, which she led from 2013-2019. As an administrator, Petersen championed the liberal arts at MTSU. Her team implemented a comprehensive plan to articulate a strong value statement for the liberal arts and celebrate the diversity of disciplines and perspectives that makes the liberal arts indispensable in the pursuit of knowledge and wisdom. She believes education, particularly higher education, has the power to change lives and transform communities. Karen Petersen Dean, Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Professor of Political Science Office of the Dean Chapman Hall, Room 111 918-631-3795 Office Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Kirsten Olds Associate Dean Associate Professor of Art, Design and Art History Chapman Hall, Room 110 kirsten-olds@utulsa.edu Stephanie Boulden Manager of Special Projects and Technical Needs Chapman Hall, Room 111 918-631-3795 stephanie-boulden@utulsa.edu Steven Buchele Special Projects and Technical Needs Associate Chapman Hall, Room 109 918-631-3012 steven-buchele@utulsa.edu Points of Pride 96% placement rates in jobs or graduate school Since 1991, there have been 365 Presidential Scholars. In the past five years, 288 Arts & Science students traveled abroad to more than 42 countries. Since 1980, 39 Arts & Sciences professors received the TU Outstanding Teacher Award. 20 Arts & Science students received research grant awards (2016-2017) Students have won competitive awards such as: Harry S. Truman Scholarship, Marshall Scholarship, Fullbright Scholarship and The Vance and Betty Lee Stickell Student Internship Kendall College is home to six award winning journals: James Joyce Quarterly, Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature, Russian Studies in History, Nimrod: International Journal of Prose and Poetry, Journal of Modern Periodical Studies and the student journal Stylus. Kendall College alumni include: author Rilla Askew, Emmy-winning student director Chase Chambers, Chief of Operations at the CIA’s Counterterrorism Center Monte Hawkins, author S.E. Hinton, actor Wesam Keesh, actor and producer Julius Tennon, actor Wade Williams Students go on to pursue graduate studies at leading universities: Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Columbia, Oxford and Chicago to name a few. Arts & Sciences Dean’s Circle Every university is strengthened by the annual giving of alumni and friends and TU is no exception. Gifts to the annual fund provide critical support for programs and expenses in the college that have no other dedicated funding source, and it allows the flexibility to address the most pressing needs that arise on a daily basis. Annual fund donors giving $2,500 or more are recognized as members of the Dean’s Circle, making them a dedicated group of partners with a proud stake in TU’s success. Examples of past uses of Dean’s Circle funds include: Student organized TedX talk Student research colloquiums Student travel to participate in the National Student Advertising Competition Etiquette dinners for more than 150 students Partnered with the admissions office to increase student recruitment efforts by subsidizing campus visits and funding promotional videos If you are interested in being a part of the Kendall College of Arts and Sciences family, please visit our giving page. 2016-2017 Arts & Sciences Dean’s Circle Ellen and Steve Adelson Melinda and Mitch ’79 Adwon Joanie and Tom Atkinson Olivia Belknap ’96 Elizabeth Bender ’79 Harriet ‘69 and Bill ’67, ’69 Derrevere Jean Ann ’72 and Tom Fausser ’70 Linda Feagin ’66 Marilyn Girouard ’51 Kathleen Page and Michael Graves ’67, ‘70 Kellie ’72 and Fred Harlan Nancy and Jerry ’61 Henry Mary Ann Hille ’65 Robert Hogan Burt Holmes ’54 Jenk Jones Mary Lhevine ’82 and George Schnetzer Susan ’95 and Bob Mase Judith McCormack ’63, ’77 Teena and Paul Merrywell Paula ’61 and Malcolm Milsten Kalpana Misra and Murali Iyengar Valerie ’86 and Brad Naifeh Melinda Noel ’72 Vicki Parry ’61 Mindy ’80 and Jesse Pearson Kay and Tim ’78 Phoenix Peggy and Ron Predl Jean Roberts ’39 James Ruddle ’57, ’61 Frank Skipworth ’67, ’70 Betty ’83 and Kelly Swindle Norma and Steve ’68 Turnbo Julia and Bill ’86 Watson Martin Wing FOUNDATIONS Herbert and Roseline Gussman Foundation Pearl M. and Julia J. Harmon Foundation Harlan and Virginia Krumme Trust George H. Odell Foundation A.R. and Marylouise Tandy Foundation Charles and Marion Weber Foundation Board of Visitors Caroline Abbott Ellen Adelson Mitch Adwon Joanie Atkinson Leta Bell Barbara Blackburn Don Blackburn John Bovaird Beth Bovaird Laurie Brumbaugh Bill Derrevere Harriet Derrevere Linda Feagin John Finley Linda Frazier Marc Frazier Greg Frizzell Michael Graves Monte Hawkins Kim Johnson Jenk Jones Jake Jorishie Cheryl LaFortune Mary Lhevine Judy McCormack Paula Milsten Bob Mogelnicki Mahvash Moghaddam Valerie Naifeh TimPhoenix George Schnetzer Greg Spears Julius Tennon Bruce Tibbets Frances Tibbets Steve Turnbo Bill Watson Julie Watson Melissa Weiss Martin Wing Contact Office of the Dean Chapman Hall, Room 111 918-631-3795 Office Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Stephanie Boulden Manager of Special Projects and Technical Needs Chapman Hall, Room 111 918-631-3795 stephanie-boulden@utulsa.edu 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT