Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About About Office of the Dean College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Dean’s Circle Academic Publications Magazine & Newsletters Alumni Internships Academics Academics Academic Calendar Bulletin/Course Catalog Schedule of Courses Academic Misconduct Policy Pre-Law Program Pre-Med Program Life Long Learning Advising Departments & Schools Anthropology Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Facilities and Labs Contact Anthropology Art, Design & Art History School of Art, Design & Art History Undergraduate Programs Areas of Study Gussman Juried Student Exhibition Contact Art, Design & Art History Economics Department of Economics Undergraduate Programs Contact Economics Education Department of Education Undergraduate Programs Student Teaching Contact Education English & Creative Writing Department of English & Creative Writing Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs University Writing Program Research in English Contact English & Creative Writing Film Studies Department of Film Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Film Studies History Department of History Undergraduate Programs Contact History Language & Literature School of Language & Literature Hardesty Language Community Language Placement Contact Language & Literature Media Studies Department of Media Studies Undergraduate Programs Contact Media Studies School of Music School of Music Undergraduate Programs Student Performances and Performance Opportunities Faculty Specialties & Instrument Music Auditions Music Scholarships Non-Music Majors Music Camps & Workshops Concerts with Commentary Béla Rózsa Music Competition Lorton Performance Center Contact Music Philosophy & Religion Department of Philosophy & Religion Programs Bell Distinguished Lectureship Contact Philosophy & Religion Political Science Department of Political Science Undergraduate Programs Contact Political Science Psychology Department of Psychology Undergraduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Industrial Organizational Psychology Graduate Programs Contact Psychology Sociology Department of Sociology Undergraduate Programs Contact Sociology Theatre & Musical Theatre Theatre & Musical Theatre Program Current Season Contact Theatre & Musical Theatre Interdisciplinary Programs Arts Management Program Classical Studies Environmental Policy Program International Engineering & Language Program Museum Science & Management Organizational Studies Program Women’s & Gender Studies Programs Faculty Facilities & Centers Facilities Centers Research Research Undergraduate Research Faculty Research Quick Links Events News Maps Library Portal Athletics Alumni Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Current Students Parents & Families Employees Adult Learners Job Seekers News & Media Veterans Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Kendall College of Arts and Sciences Department of Psychology Research Personality in the workplace 918-631-2248 Lorton Hall, 308 Map Email https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8kLRxsfg35E PSYCHOLOGY Psychology Undergraduate Programs I/O Psychology Graduate Programs Clinical Psychology Graduate Programs Labs & Institutes Faculty News Contact the Department Psychology — the study of human nature: What are people like? How do they use information? What motivates them? How do they develop and change? Students learn critical thinking and scientific methods in order to help solve human problems in the workplace and in the community. Courses in the psychology department address fundamental questions about human nature and teach the application of scientific methods to verify research. Other courses examine possibilities for applying psychological science to solve human problems. Our faculty is genuinely committed to teaching. We promote an atmosphere of collegiality among faculty, students, and support staff. We expect excellence from our students and encourage them to develop to their full potential by going beyond coursework to participate in research and community service. Labs & Institutes In our state of the art laboratories and interdisciplinary institutes, psychology faculty conduct research in a wide variety of areas such as personality influences on workplace accomplishment, personality assessment, treatment and prevention of trauma and its effects, reducing the effects of occupational stress and exploring factors that can influence one’s perception of pain. From undergraduates to doctoral students, there is place for you to not only research but also publish your findings. Explore your many research opportunities. Learn more. True Blue Neighbors Behavioral Health Clinic The True Blue Neighbors Behavioral Health Clinic (TBN-BHC) provides affordable and empirically supported mental health assessment and treatment services to children and adults of all ages. We support the True Blue Neighbors community, the Kendall Whittier neighborhood, and surrounding areas. The clinic is supervised by TU’s licensed clinical psychology professors and services are provided by graduate students in the clinical psychology program. Learn more. Student Research Psychology undergraduate and graduate student research is a crucial component to a psychology degree. Check out some of our student research projects. Personality Tests Personality tests are not merely for discovering a celebrity soulmate or learning which outfit matches a reader’s mood. Outside the pages of Cosmopolitan, personality tests serve as an assessment for employment. Assistant Professor of Psychology David Fisher and graduate students Sydnie Cunningham and Alison Kerr published an article in The International Journal of Selection and Assessment on the significance of personality tests that are contextualized for the workplace. Learn more. Pain Receptors Students often associate studying with pain, but TU doctoral student, Edward Lannon studies pain. Lannon’s research in pain not only earned him a National Science Foundation (NSF) Fellowship, but also, he recently won an NSF travel award. Learn more. Malaria in Ghana TU researchers from the Department of Psychology have traveled to Ghana where malaria is responsible for 25 percent of child deaths under the age of 5 [UNICEF, 2007]. A TU survey of Ghanaian children, parents and teachers revealed malaria is the primary cause of absenteeism among children and has a serious impact on their education. Learn more. Clinical Neuropsychology The American Psychological Association (APA) honored three TU psychology doctoral students for outstanding research papers in clinical neuropsychology (APA Division 40-Society for Clinical Neuropsychology). From data collection to the final paper review, McFarlin Professor of Psychology and Director of Clinical Training Michael Basso mentors his students to start with a question and then investigate. Learn more. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Apply Visit Strategic Plan Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT