Jump to main navigation Jump to main content Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Admissions open subnavigation Requirements and process Visits/Information Sessions A&S Ambassadors Education open subnavigation Majors and Minors Degree Requirements An Innovative Curriculum Student Services Special Academic Opportunities Education Innovation Research & Scholarship open subnavigation Undergraduate Research Nexus Scholars Program Humanities Scholars Program Klarman Fellows New Frontier Grants Research Entrepreneurship Arts & Humanities Public Engagement open subnavigation Distinguished Visiting Journalists Arts Unplugged Racism in America The College open subnavigation Departments and Programs Directory Student Life Equity and Diversity Leadership Awards Facilities Open nav Open search Search for: Aditya Deshpande ’22 wins Cornell Concerto Competition Music By | Daniel Aloi , Cornell Chronicle 12/12/2018 Aditya Deshpande ’22 performed Franz Liszt’s Piano Concerto No. 1 in E-flat Major to win the 16th Cornell Concerto Competition, held Dec. 9 in Barnes Hall. He will perform the concerto with the Cornell Symphony Orchestra at a concert on campus in March. A freshman computer science major, Deshpande is a highly accomplished pianist and is studying piano at Cornell with Ryan McCullough, a doctoral student in contemporary performance practice. As a high school senior, he placed first in three music competitions: a Steinway Junior Piano Competition in Houston in June 2018; the Clear Lake Symphony Youth Concerto Competition in January 2018; and the Symphony North of Houston Concerto Competition in December 2017. In 2016, he was a finalist at the Seattle International Piano Competition, and in 2011 he placed first at the MusiQuest national level piano competition in India. He also has performed at the International Piano Competition in Ettlingen, Germany. Judges selected two other finalists during the competition. Pianist Orvill Delatorre ’19, an independent major in the College of Engineering, performed Maurice Ravel’s Piano Concerto in G, Movement 1. Delatorre studies chemical engineering and computer science, and piano with Andrew Zhou, a doctoral student in critical keyboard studies. He is a graduate of the New England Conservatory Preparatory School. Nicole Bradbury ’20, a linguistics and French major, performed Lars-Erik Larsson’s Horn Concertino No. 5, Movement 3. Bradbury is a member of the Cornell Wind Symphony and participated in its 2017 tour to Haiti and the Dominican Republic. She studies French horn with Ilze Brink-Button at Cornell and is the treasurer of Hortus Forum, the undergraduate horticulture club. The annual competition is sponsored by the Department of Music and is open to all student musicians at Cornell. “Even after four years of working at Lincoln Hall, I’m still finding myself stunned by the high level of musicianship our students are displaying in lessons, rehearsals, competitions and concerts,” said the competition’s organizer, Timna Mayer, interim Cornell Chamber Orchestra director and visiting lecturer for violin and viola. “We had 11 outstanding musicians perform repertoire ranging from Gershwin to Liszt and Paganini. Even though only one of our competitors was actually a music major, they all performed with such professionalism and passion.” The judges were: Malcolm Bilson, the Frederick J. Whiton Professor Emeritus of Music; Sonya Stith Williams, assistant concertmaster of Symphoria in Syracuse; and conductor Daniel Hege, music director of the Wichita Symphony and the Binghamton Philharmonic. This story also appeared in the Cornell Chronicle. More News from A&S The University Chorus Makes Beautiful Music Alumni 5/31/2022 By | Beth Saulnier Peering through alien atmospheres Undergraduate research 5/27/2022 By | Skylar Xu ’24 Instrument-building festival challenges, inspires Education Innovation 5/26/2022 By | Linda B. Glaser Discovery offers starting point for better gene-editing tools Nanoscience 5/26/2022 By | Linda B. Glaser View all news Related department or program Music Linguistics Romance Studies Related people Malcolm Bilson Frederick J. Whiton Professor Emeritus of Music Music For current students Student Services Academic Advising Registrar Career Development Dean's Student Advisory Council Log in to DUST For Prospective Students Undergraduate Admissions Majors and Minors Information Sessions Degree Requirements Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions For Faculty A&S Faculty Meeting Site Registrar Policies for Faculty Promotion and Tenure Guidelines For Alumni Advisory Council Give to Arts & Sciences The College Contact Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Equity and Diversity Faculty & Staff Directory Leadership Twitter Instagram Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences to do the greatest good the Campaign for Cornell University KG17 Klarman Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United states Contact Arts & Sciences © 2021 College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Top