Jump to main navigation Jump to main content Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Admissions open subnavigation Requirements and process Visits/Information Sessions A&S Ambassadors Education open subnavigation Majors and Minors Degree Requirements An Innovative Curriculum Student Services Special Academic Opportunities Education Innovation Research & Scholarship open subnavigation Undergraduate Research Nexus Scholars Program Humanities Scholars Program Klarman Fellows New Frontier Grants Research Entrepreneurship Arts & Humanities Public Engagement open subnavigation Distinguished Visiting Journalists Arts Unplugged Racism in America The College open subnavigation Departments and Programs Directory Student Life Equity and Diversity Leadership Awards Facilities Open nav Open search Search for: Home Let curiosity be your guide. Extraordinary Journeys, the Class of 2022 Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Extraordinary Journeys 5/16/2022 By | Kathy Hovis A home for exploration and discovery Our research activities and academic programs are remarkably broad, but they share one characteristic: all are curiosity-driven. Exploring the unknown is central to our mission to be the nexus of discovery and impact. Team reveals first image of the black hole at our galaxy’s heart Panelists explore ‘Science of the Very, Very Small’ Read more A&S news Jayawardhana reappointed A&S dean, named Bethe professor College leadership 5/26/2022 By | Tom Fleischman 40 Majors to choose in A&S. Design your education. Simon Wheeler Milstein seniors gathered for a reception and dinner with faculty, staff and other mentors on May 4. First class of Milstein students heads toward graduation Milstein Program in Technology & Humanity 5/26/2022 By | Kathy Hovis >2000 Courses offered in A&S of 4000 courses at Cornell. Chris Kitchen Anna Hu '22 presents her research project. College Scholars tackle interdisciplinary research projects Robert S. Harrison College Scholar Program 5/18/2022 By | Kathy Hovis ~4600 students in A&S, each with an extraordinary journey to tell. Justin Wang ’22, a philosophy and economics major, studied philosopher and author David Boonin. Humanities students present diverse research projects Humanities Scholars Program 5/18/2022 By | Kathy Hovis 65K A&S alumni in our network. Go Big Red! Popular Destinations Majors and Minors Admissions Requirements and Process Degree Requirements Departments and Programs Building the future of the College of Arts & Sciences We’re building for the future of the College of Arts & Sciences by focusing on ways we can “do the greatest good” to solve the world’s biggest challenges. Learn more about our plan for the next decade and how your gift can support bold faculty research, expand innovative learning experiences and increase scholarship funding for our diverse student population. Join us to do the greatest good A&S Academic Diversity Uncommon academic diversity abounds here The innovative undergraduate curriculum at A&S has distribution requirements that range from global citizenship to physical sciences to ethics and the mind. Classes build upon each other and cross the boundaries of traditional academic fields. Extensive work occurs outside of your major and minors, and there are no required core courses. Work closely with inspiring faculty to develop the hallmark skills of a liberal arts and sciences education – the ability to read critically, write persuasively and think broadly. Sociology major graduate Government major graduate Visual Studies minor South Asian Studies minor Medieval Studies minor Science & Technology Studies major minor graduate Robert S. Harrison College Scholar Program major History major minor graduate Majors and minors: explore the breadth of our academic opportunities Beyond Majors & Minors The pinnacle of the liberal arts experience Robert S. Harrison College Scholar Program Students design their own interdisciplinary major, organized around a question or issue of interest, and pursue a course of study that cannot be found in an established major. Harrison College Scholars explore subjects with a broader integration of related disciplines than most students would attempt. More details about the College Scholar Program A deep dive into the humanities Humanities Scholars Program This new program offers a signature learning, research and collaboration opportunity for undergraduate students across the university who are interested in the humanities. Learn more about the program Shaping the future Milstein Program Students in the Milstein Program in Technology & Humanity combine Cornell’s renowned liberal arts and sciences classes in Ithaca with the 21st century tech curriculum at Cornell Tech in NYC. See the Milstein Program at work Funding your summer experience Summer Experience Grants Summer opportunities are crucial to student career success, but these life-changing experiences frequently offer little to no funding. That’s a critical barrier for many of our students – and one that the College of Arts and Sciences feels is vital to overcome. The Summer Experiences Grants (SEG) do just that. They support students with living expenses, transportation, and travel so that these essential experiences are available to all of our students, who may otherwise not be able to afford them. Applications now open for Summer 2022. Apply today! Discover life-changing summer experiences Research and Scholarship Research, scholarship and creative works to understand humanity and the cosmos Curiosity is the driver for research in A&S. From the dendrochronology lab where archaeologists analyze tree-ring growth to understand climate change to the linguistics department where students created a new language for a Captain Marvel movie, our students and faculty take full advantage of all that our world-class research university encompasses. With opportunities spanning the natural sciences, social sciences and humanities, research here takes place in laboratories, museums, field sites, libraries, hospitals, greenhouses, performance spaces and archives. Explore our research, scholarship and creative works High-impact seed funding New Frontier Grants Now in its second year, the College of Arts and Sciences has awarded 21 New Frontier Grants totaling nearly $3.25 million to faculty members pursuing boundary-pushing research projects from quantum materials to sustainable technologies to a philosophical theory of widespread sentience. Learn more about the New Frontier Grants Undergraduate research opportunities Nexus Scholars Program The Nexus Scholars Program in the College of Arts & Sciences provides undergraduate students with summer opportunities to work side by side with faculty from all across the college (humanities, social sciences, and STEM) on their research projects. Explore more details about Nexus Scholars Premier postdocs Klarman Fellowships This premier postdoctoral fellowship program offers opportunities for early-career scholars of outstanding talent, initiative and promise to devote themselves to frontline, innovative research without being tied to specific outcomes. Learn more about the Klarman Fellowships. Public Engagement Engaging our community and our world Open your mind Arts Unplugged series The College of Arts & Sciences’ Arts Unplugged series brings research and creative works into the public sphere for discussion and inspiration. These outreach events invite a broad audience to explore the work of scholars and faculty from all disciplines, all backgrounds and all time periods and to celebrate the impact that work continues to have on our daily lives. Explore recent and upcoming Arts Unplugged events. Engagement for an informed society Distinguished Visiting Journalist Program The College of Arts & Sciences' new Distinguished Visiting Journalist Program brings accomplished journalists to Cornell for extended visits. The program aims to recognize excellence in journalism and to provide opportunities for select journalists and the university community to engage with each other. Learn more about the program. Explore public engagement at A&S Faculty Commentary on Current Events Image by Gerd Altmann from Pixabay Digital focus of Asia trade plan will help U.S. companies, allies International relations 5/23/2022 By | Staff Taneli Lahtinen/Unsplash A road in Finland Finland, Sweden considering NATO not surprising given historical context International politics 5/12/2022 By | Staff U.S. information warfare ‘fundamentally shapes conflict’ in Ukraine Intelligence 5/5/2022 By | Staff ALEXANDRE LALLEMAND/ Unsplash European flags at La Défense in Paris European leaders show ‘creative diplomacy’ in Russian oil ban European politics 5/4/2022 By | Staff Leaked SCOTUS opinion represents ‘new level of misogyny’ Supreme Court 5/3/2022 By | Staff Christian doctrine barely veiled in leaked SCOTUS opinion Supreme Court 5/3/2022 By | Staff Christoph Theisinger/Unsplash Colombo, Sri Lanka Protests in Sri Lanka unprecedented, unlikely to fade away Asian Studies 4/28/2022 By | Staff Russian gas threat could force European economy to reform Eurpoean economy 4/27/2022 By | Staff Sasha Matveeva/Unsplash People riding the Moscow subway Biden admin rhetoric strengthens Russian propaganda about U.S. International conflict 4/25/2022 By | Staff Despite election loss, Marine Le Pen influence in France to continue European politics 4/25/2022 By | Staff Faculty in the news 'Up From the Depths’ Review: Melville Was His White Whale Wall Street Journal Related people Aaron Sachs Related Departments History 5/26/2022 Stacey Abrams Faces Uphill Battle to Defeat Brian Kemp in Georgia Newsweek Related people David Alexander Bateman Related Departments Government 5/25/2022 China Growth Target in Tatters as Covid Zero Hammers Economy Bloomberg Related people Jeremy Lee Wallace Related Departments Government, China and Asia-Pacific Studies Program 5/25/2022 Humanity's most distant spacecraft is sending back weird signals from beyond our solar system Salon Related people James M. Cordes, Stella Koch Ocker , graduate student Related Departments Astronomy 5/23/2022 Join us @CornellCAS Follow us on Instagram to learn more about what it is like to be a student in Arts & Sciences and to see the beautiful campus in Ithaca, New York we call home. A&S Events Jun 06 12:00 8-week Summer Session Instruction begins Campus-wide: Jun 21 12:00 6-Week Summer Session Begins Campus-wide: Aug 22 12:00 Instruction Begins Campus-wide: On this page: A&S Academic Diversity Research and Scholarship Public Engagement A&S Events For current students Student Services Academic Advising Registrar Career Development Dean's Student Advisory Council Log in to DUST For Prospective Students Undergraduate Admissions Majors and Minors Information Sessions Degree Requirements Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions For Faculty A&S Faculty Meeting Site Registrar Policies for Faculty Promotion and Tenure Guidelines For Alumni Advisory Council Give to Arts & Sciences The College Contact Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Equity and Diversity Faculty & Staff Directory Leadership Twitter Instagram Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences to do the greatest good the Campaign for Cornell University KG17 Klarman Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United states Contact Arts & Sciences © 2021 College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Top