Jump to main navigation Jump to main content Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Admissions open subnavigation Requirements and process Visits/Information Sessions A&S Ambassadors Education open subnavigation Majors and Minors Degree Requirements An Innovative Curriculum Student Services Special Academic Opportunities Education Innovation Research & Scholarship open subnavigation Undergraduate Research Nexus Scholars Program Humanities Scholars Program Klarman Fellows New Frontier Grants Research Entrepreneurship Arts & Humanities Public Engagement open subnavigation Distinguished Visiting Journalists Arts Unplugged Racism in America The College open subnavigation Departments and Programs Directory Student Life Equity and Diversity Leadership Awards Facilities Open nav Open search Search for: Are you motivated to make your mark on the world? Arts & Sciences Admissions Bring your passion, or find one here The College of Arts & Sciences is the heart of the university. As an A&S student, you will be at the center of an academic community that is constantly generating new ideas. You will learn from excellent teachers who will challenge you to expand your imagination, while you sharpen your critical and creative responses to all encounters. You will be a part of a group of impressive, independent and diverse thinkers, who will help you forge your own path to discovery and transformation. The College embodies Ezra Cornell’s founding vision where "any person can find instruction in any study." Welcome Class of 2026 Congratulations to the Class of 2026! Welcome to the Big Red family. Class of 2026 admitted students A unique liberal arts experience A unique liberal arts experience Opportunities abound at the nexus As the largest college at Cornell, Arts & Sciences offers you access to an uncommonly diverse range of education and research opportunities. In addition to our 2,000+ courses, you’ll have access to more than 2,000 additional courses at our six other professional and applied colleges and schools. Because we offer classes on topics ranging from physics to punk culture, students from all across the campus take our classes, so your classrooms will be filled with artists, scientists, entrepreneurs, scholars, world-changers and students with any kind of interest you can dream up. Special academic opportunities Undergraduate research opportunities Study abroad Classes that stretch your mind, support for your journey Faculty in the College create innovative classes that encourage you to follow your curiosity and to try out new ideas, learn about new people and challenge yourself – embracing the best parts of a liberal arts education. Our requirements offer a unique degree of flexibility for you to discover what truly makes you come alive. The A&S curriculum is designed so you can work closely with inspiring liberal arts faculty and take full advantage of the resources of a leading research university. When you need help along the way, our vast array of student services staff are there, offering extra academic support, health and wellness resources, advice about classes and majors and guidance and connections related to careers or graduate schools. Explore A&S Majors and Minors Student Support Degree Requirements/Curriculum Educators and students working together All A&S faculty actively teach Unlike other Ivies, all faculty in our College teach undergraduates. Our brightest scholars and researchers also happen to be great teachers. Students driven by curiosity A&S students are encouraged to let their curiosity lead them into academic success and research discoveries. Irene Lessmeister, Director of Admissions at the College of Arts & Sciences, answers questions from prospective students about academics, student life, and admissions at Cornell University’s College of Arts & Sciences. Find your place Find your place How will you fit into the A&S community? Because the College of Arts & Sciences includes majors spanning the humanities, social sciences and physical sciences, you’ll be sure to find kindred spirits who share your academic interests. And the university’s vast offering of more than 1,000 student clubs means you also can connect with people who love the same things you do. Our students are motivated, inspired and sincere. People say we’re one of the friendliest Ivies and we’re proud of that. You’ll find that our students challenge themselves academically and look forward to successful careers with impact, but they’re also preparing themselves for a meaningful life and purpose drives much of what they pursue. If you have these qualities, you’re likely to thrive here, where you can work collaboratively with faculty and other students to understand the toughest questions and take on the world's greatest challenges Explore student stories Meet the A&S Ambassadors An engaged learning environment Juliette Ovadia: 'Cornell is an academic community founded on tolerance and inclusion' Comparative Literature, French 5/15/2020 Students find community in a capella group Tarana Student Experiences 3/31/2020 By | Palini Ramnarayan ‘I learned to let my goals be limitless’ Our students follow their own pathways to discovery during their time at Cornell. Read a few of their stories to find out about the classes, activities, friends and professors who made their experiences here transformational. 'I did not close myself off from my potential' Extraordinary Journeys 5/16/2022 By | Jonathan Mercedes 'I learned to ask questions from curiosity rather than a need to be right' Extraordinary Journeys 5/16/2022 By | Kathryn Stamm 'We lobbied Tompkins County to support a housing program for formerly incarcerated people' Extraordinary Journeys 5/16/2022 By | Cosimo L. Fabrizio 'I did research on human rights violations in Syria and Nigeria' Extraordinary Journeys 5/16/2022 By | Youssef Aziz I would found an institution where any person can find instruction in any study. Ezra Cornell on October 7, 1868, at the official dedication of Cornell University Equity and diversity Equity and diversity 'Any person, any study' Our cofounders were committed to creating a university that was open to all individuals, regardless of race or gender. And Ezra Cornell’s motto is something we have in our minds every day, as we constantly strive for a more equitable and inclusive atmosphere for all. Diversity takes on a broad meaning at Cornell and specifically in the College of Arts & Sciences. The university takes its commitment to diversity seriously, undertaking numerous initiatives including the Presidential Task Force on Campus Climate and the Provost’s Task Force to Enhance Faculty Diversity. We know this commitment is one that requires constant work and attention and that work continues. Read more: Equity and Diversity in Arts & Sciences Book explores historical queerness of the Nuyorican Poets Cafe Performing & Media Arts 7/29/2021 By | David Nutt Following the ‘wisdom of crowds’ can stifle diversity Moral Psychology 7/20/2021 By | James Dean 60 & 50 Students come from 60 countries and all 50 states 40 Our offerings allow students to choose from 40 majors and 59 minors 11.3% 11.3 percent of our students are the first in their family to attend college Alumnus funds scholarship for international students Alumni support 6/24/2019 By | Kathy Hovis International collaboration results in play about borders Global 2/22/2017 By | Linda B. Glaser A global university Offering a world of options to international students The College of Arts & Sciences has welcomed international students with open arms throughout its history, with its American liberal arts and sciences education that allows you to explore all of your interests. We can help, supporting you as you take a variety of classes to find the discipline that you love. And with staff across campus who understand the special needs and challenges of international students, we can smooth your transition to learning in the U.S. International student application process International student services Unlimited opportunities Unlimited opportunities Career opportunities What will you do with a degree from A&S? Your liberal arts education will help you understand the foundations of knowledge, inquiry and creativity and prepare you for this era of rapid social, technological, economic and environmental change. After graduation, you could go on to a prestigious graduate program, pursue an advanced professional degree or go directly into a challenging and rewarding career. Career Development Explore Outcome Data in Depth >30% Of A&S students work closely with faculty in research & independent study. 10 students per faculty advisor (avg) Cornell celebrates bumper crop of Fulbright students Student success 5/25/2022 By | Jackie Swift First cohort of A&S Nexus Scholars chosen for summer research positions Undergraduate research 4/27/2022 By | Kathy Hovis Assistant Director of Admissions, Alyssa Bachmann '11, gives an overview of career development opportunities in the College of Arts & Sciences. Starting your journey Starting your journey Applying Requirements and process Admissions advisors are looking for academic excellence, intellectual curiosity, a commitment to a liberal arts education, and a demonstrated record of having a positive impact on your community. Undergraduate admissions Graduate admissions Transfer students Accessible to all Financial aid and tuition Because Cornell meets 100% of demonstrated financial need for all admitted students, a Cornell education is often much more affordable than you might expect. Learn more about financial aid. Costs to attend Cornell Types of aid Apply for aid Questions for us? A&S Undergraduate Admissions - call 607-255-4833 or email as_admissions@cornell.edu A&S Transfer Admissions (Internal and External) - email as-transfer@cornell.edu On this page: A unique liberal arts experience Find your place Equity and diversity Unlimited opportunities Starting your journey For current students Student Services Academic Advising Registrar Career Development Dean's Student Advisory Council Log in to DUST For Prospective Students Undergraduate Admissions Majors and Minors Information Sessions Degree Requirements Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions For Faculty A&S Faculty Meeting Site Registrar Policies for Faculty Promotion and Tenure Guidelines For Alumni Advisory Council Give to Arts & Sciences The College Contact Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Equity and Diversity Faculty & Staff Directory Leadership Twitter Instagram Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences to do the greatest good the Campaign for Cornell University KG17 Klarman Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United states Contact Arts & Sciences © 2021 College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Top