Jump to main navigation Jump to main content Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Admissions open subnavigation Requirements and process Visits/Information Sessions A&S Ambassadors Education open subnavigation Majors and Minors Degree Requirements An Innovative Curriculum Student Services Special Academic Opportunities Education Innovation Research & Scholarship open subnavigation Undergraduate Research Nexus Scholars Program Humanities Scholars Program Klarman Fellows New Frontier Grants Research Entrepreneurship Arts & Humanities Public Engagement open subnavigation Distinguished Visiting Journalists Arts Unplugged Racism in America The College open subnavigation Departments and Programs Directory Student Life Equity and Diversity Leadership Awards Facilities Open nav Open search Search for: Preparation for a life well lived Education Majors and Minors Explore majors and minors Any person, any study Uncommon breadth and depth of study Arts & Sciences is a thriving environment for undergraduate students to follow their curiosity and find a course of study to match their interests. This rich diversity of academic pursuits A&S offers, opens opportunities to match students with dynamic course offerings and world class faculty. Explore all majors, minors and grad fields Anthropology major minor graduate Asian American Studies minor Arabic minor Comparative Literature major minor graduate Law & Society minor Crime, Prisons, Education & Justice minor Innovative Curriculum An innovative and unique liberal arts curriculum The College of Arts & Sciences has developed an innovative curriculum that encourages a curiosity driven exploration of all of the benefits of a liberal arts education. The A&S curriculum offers a unique degree of flexibility. The A&S curriculum is designed to take full advantage leading liberal arts faculty, as well as the resources of a world leading research university. The ideals of exploration and discovery, are evident in the classroom, research environments, and beyond. 2/3 of your curriculum is taken outside your major 3000 undergraduate students participating in ALI courses Shaping the future Milstein Program Students in the Milstein Program in Technology & Humanity combine Cornell’s renowned liberal arts and sciences classes in Ithaca with the 21st century tech curriculum at Cornell Tech in NYC. See the Milstein Program at work Education Innovation Innovative approaches to teaching Exciting things are happening in classrooms throughout the College of Arts & Sciences as new, research-based approaches to teaching spread through the disciplines. Explore our advances in active learning. Opportunities Opportunities Career opportunities What will you do with a degree from A&S? The answer to the oft-asked question is simple, “literally anything.” A liberal arts education trains you to be a well-rounded thinker, contributor and leader. A&S students turn degrees in theatre and physics into jobs in top Wall Street banking firms. History students can be found in top law firms and government positions around the world. The education, experiences, and exposure you will receive at A&S will open countless opportunities. Explore career outcome data in depth. Harper Tooch Summer experience grant removes barriers of access for students Student experiences 3/30/2021 By | Amaris Janel Henderson Students manage remote internships found through Pathways program Career experiences 7/27/2020 By | Kathy Hovis Opportunity abounds here Expanding your opportunities Whether are looking for chances to engage with the public, you like to travel, love spending time in a lab, or prefer to chart your own course of study, you'll find countless opportunities in the College of Arts & Sciences for engagement and learning, in the classroom and beyond. Study abroad College Scholar Tanner Dean’s Scholars Humanities Scholars Milstein Program Undergraduate research Explore the full breadth of the A&S undergraduate experience Take some time to explore the paths that a curiosity driven curriculum and environment open up to A&S undergraduate students. Your undergrad experience is only limited by your imagination in Cornell A&S. Peering through alien atmospheres Undergraduate research 5/27/2022 By | Skylar Xu ’24 Provided Cornell Physics junior J Nation performing on their balloon-powered “foghorgan.” Instrument-building festival challenges, inspires Education Innovation 5/26/2022 By | Linda B. Glaser Simon Wheeler Milstein seniors gathered for a reception and dinner with faculty, staff and other mentors on May 4. First class of Milstein students heads toward graduation Milstein Program in Technology & Humanity 5/26/2022 By | Kathy Hovis Cornell celebrates bumper crop of Fulbright students Student success 5/25/2022 By | Jackie Swift Information for Current Students Resources for current students Student resources Academic advising Career development Registrar Log into DUST Explore majors, minors, departments and programs Majors and Minors Departments and Programs Schedule an appointment Academic Advising Career Development On this page: Majors and Minors Innovative Curriculum Opportunities Information for Current Students For current students Student Services Academic Advising Registrar Career Development Dean's Student Advisory Council Log in to DUST For Prospective Students Undergraduate Admissions Majors and Minors Information Sessions Degree Requirements Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions For Faculty A&S Faculty Meeting Site Registrar Policies for Faculty Promotion and Tenure Guidelines For Alumni Advisory Council Give to Arts & Sciences The College Contact Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Equity and Diversity Faculty & Staff Directory Leadership Twitter Instagram Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences to do the greatest good the Campaign for Cornell University KG17 Klarman Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United states Contact Arts & Sciences © 2021 College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Top