Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More Sites Main College College News About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Give Search About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give Click here to view the ceremony live! Click here to view the ceremony live! With more than 2,500 course offerings across 38 majors and 46 minors, the options to discover your passion and customize your future are endless. Be energized by internships, research and service opportunities, and many other high impact educational experiences. With more than 2,500 course offerings across 38 majors and 46 minors, the options to discover your passion and customize your future are endless. Be energized by internships, research and service opportunities, and many other high impact educational experiences. With more than 2,500 course offerings across 38 majors and 46 minors, the options to discover your passion and customize your future are endless. Be energized by internships, research and service opportunities, and many other high impact educational experiences. Skills for Life You can launch your career with any Arts & Sciences degree. In the College, you’ll gain the skills needed for a rapidly changing job market and the careers of tomorrow. Skills for Life You can launch your career with any Arts & Sciences degree. In the College, you’ll gain the skills needed for a rapidly changing job market and the careers of tomorrow. Opportunities to Engage and Connect The College offers an abundance of opportunities to engage with our vibrant and dynamic community, challenge yourself to try new things, and make the most out of your academic adventure, preparing for future success. Opportunities to Engage and Connect The College offers an abundance of opportunities to engage with our vibrant and dynamic community, challenge yourself to try new things, and make the most out of your academic adventure, preparing for future success. Innovation From autonomous, soccer-playing robots to mixed reality technology to faculty who teach in creative and innovative ways, the College’s initiatives will equip you with in-demand skills for academic success and career readiness. Innovation From autonomous, soccer-playing robots to mixed reality technology to faculty who teach in creative and innovative ways, the College’s initiatives will equip you with in-demand skills for academic success and career readiness. Cultural Capital Students from across the campus can find a city's worth of art and culture right here in the College. Every year, the College hosts hundreds of world-class performances, events and exhibits that nurture the human spirit, spark creativity, and contribute to an enriched campus life. Cultural Capital Students from across the campus can find a city's worth of art and culture right here in the College. Every year, the College hosts hundreds of world-class performances, events and exhibits that nurture the human spirit, spark creativity, and contribute to an enriched campus life. Explore A&S Within a top research university in one of America’s most internationally connected cities, learn about how you can acquire knowledge across a variety of disciplines and participate in a proud tradition of inquiry, engagement, and creativity. Learn More News and Events EVENTS Find your Advisor Student Academic Services transforms lives by fostering collaborative, supportive relationships to educate students about university requirements and opportunities. Learn more Students Students at the University of Miami College of Arts & Sciences are motivated, inspired, and creative. Learn how our exemplary students are charting the course to the new century. Learn more Parents As parents and family members, the more you know about the College of Arts & Sciences and the University of Miami, the more knowledgeable and prepared you will be to assist and guide your student during his or her academic career at the University. Learn more Faculty and Staff The College of Arts & Sciences (A&S) at the University of Miami is a community of scholars and students who cultivate personal commitments to lifelong learning, intellectual growth, and the enduring values of the liberal arts. Learn more Follow Us: Get Social with Arts and Sciences Follow Us: Get Social with Arts and Sciences UMCAS ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College of Arts and Sciences 1252 Memorial Drive Ashe Building - Rm # 227 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305- 284-4117 305- 284-4117 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard WebMail Leave Feedback UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Library Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Contact Us Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices