Skip to Main Events Events Calendar Big Questions Series Teaching Innovation Series A&S CAS GSAS Liberal Studies About About Arts & Science Leadership of Arts & Science Arts & Science Board A&S CAS GSAS Liberal Studies People Faculty Staff Administrative Resources The Silver Professors A&S CAS GSAS Liberal Studies Academics Departments and Programs Centers, Institutes and International Houses A&S CAS GSAS Liberal Studies Stay Involved Connect A&S CAS GSAS Liberal Studies Contact Human Resources Meet the Arts & Science Human Resources Team Administrative and Manager Resources, Policies, and Forms Performance Management Learning and Development Community Building Team Employee Benefits Employee Recognition Programs HR Services FAS Fiscal, Payroll, and Academic Appointment Contacts New Employee Resources FAS AY 21-22 Telecommuting Policy A&S CAS GSAS Liberal Studies Events Events Calendar Big Questions Series Teaching Innovation Series About About Arts & Science Leadership of Arts & Science Arts & Science Board People Faculty Staff Administrative Resources The Silver Professors Academics Departments and Programs Centers, Institutes and International Houses Stay Involved Connect Contact Human Resources Meet the Arts & Science Human Resources Team Administrative and Manager Resources, Policies, and Forms Performance Management Learning and Development Community Building Team Employee Benefits Employee Recognition Programs HR Services FAS Fiscal, Payroll, and Academic Appointment Contacts New Employee Resources FAS AY 21-22 Telecommuting Policy Matthew Hayek, PhD Assistant Professor in Environmental Studies Matthew Hayek is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Environmental Studies. He received his PhD in Environmental Science and Engineering from the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Science. Prior to that, he received his bachelor's in Physics from Wesleyan University. Hayek's research quantifies the environmental impacts of our food system, with a specific focus on greenhouse gas emissions and contributions to climate change. He has previously published in the areas of atmospheric physics, forest terrestrial ecology, and agricultural management. His most recent paper concerns the relative impacts of grass-fed vs. conventional beef production on methane emissions and land use in the US. His current project analyzes the land use requirements of food production more broadly, examining regional and global opportunities for reforestation and negative carbon emissions entailed by shifting toward more efficient consumption patterns and production systems. Prior to joining NYU, Hayek was a postdoctoral science and policy researcher at Harvard Law School in the Animal Law and Policy Program. He has previously taught courses on earth system fluid mechanics and global change biology. Contact Information Matthew Hayek, PhD Assistant Professor in Environmental Studies matthew.hayek@nyu.edu 285 Mercer Street, Rm 701 New York, NY 10003 Make an advising appointment here Arts & Science Give to Arts & Science 　 　 College of Arts & Science About CAS Academic Programs Apply to the College Liberal Studies About LS Academic Programs Apply to Liberal Studies Graduate School of Arts & Science About GSAS Academic Programs Apply to Graduate School Accessibility © New York University. All rights reserved.