SKIP TO CONTENT ACCESSIBILITY Navigation Close/Open Navigation Get Involved Student Government A.S. Councils, Minutes & Agendas Aztec Achievement Awards Boards & Committees College Councils Elections A.S. Leadership Student Organization Banking Student Organization Funding University Senate Committees Volunteer Your Voice Matters Rock the Vote Aztecs Rock Hunger Student Union In the Union ARC Express Aztec Nights Aztec Lanes Aztec Student Union Board (ASUB) Cal Coast Credit Union Center for Intercultural Relations Commuter Center Dining Lactation Room The Backdoor Studio Student Life & Leadership Student Lounge Student Organizations University Info Center Plan an Event Union Events About the Union Hours Maps Sustainability Enjoy Events Events In The Union Aztec Nights GreenFest OneSDSU Entertainment Viejas Arena Cal Coast Credit Union Open Air Theatre Movie Passes Theme Park Tickets Be Active Aztec Recreation ARC Express Aztec Adventures Aztec Aquaplex Aztec Lanes Aztec Recreation Center Intramural Sports Group Fitness Sport Clubs Youth Swim Lessons Mission Bay Aquatic Center The Watersports Camp ENS Classes Work Full-time Part-time Discover A.S. About Us Mission, Vision, Values Annual Reports A.S. History Contact A.S. Sustainability GreenFest Green Love Zip Car Trolley Passes Union Energy Consumption Youth Programs SDSU Children's Center Swim Lessons The Watersports Camp Search Conrad Prebys Aztec Student Union Welcome to the Student Union! The Conrad Prebys Aztec Student Union, or Union for short, is your home away from home and the community center for the campus. It was made possible by former SDSU students who voted to build an all new LEED Double Platinum student union. The Union is entirely student-fee funded and receives no State funding. Browse our web site to learn more about the services and amenities available. We are proud to announce that we have received our official LEED DOUBLE PLATINUM CERTIFICATION! LEED®, and its related logo, is a trademark owned by the U.S. Green Building Council® and is used with permission. About the Union News, Maps, Sustainability and more Union Events FREE Events, Programs and Entertainment Plan an Event Union Programs & Services Hours Facility Operating Hours Video Transcript SDSU Student Union Virtual Tour video transcript 0:01 Associated Students, San Diego State University logo 0:02 Aerial view of the Student Union with text that says, “Conrad Prebys Aztec Student Union.” 0:06 Aerial view of the Student Union’s dome 0:08 Two LEED Platinum awards displayed on the wall near the North Grand Entry. 0:10 Aerial view of the Student Union going North to South 0:14 Walking in the arcade next to Chipotle going towards Starbucks 0:20 View of the Courtyard with students and guests sitting in chairs and has texts that say, “Goldberg Courtyard.” 0:26 View of the 1st Floor Arcade panning to the Courtyard 0:29 Puppy Therapy at the top of the Courtyard steps with a lot of students and guests playing with dogs. 0:32 Aerial view of SDSU’s suspension bridge with people walking on it 0:33 Aerial view of the suspension bridge panning to the Student Union 0:36 Aerial view of the Student Union going south to north 0:39 Time lapse on the third floor looking out towards the North Grand Entry and into the Courtyard with people walking. 0:40 Time lapse of the Student Union on Centennial Walkway perpendicular to the Union’s dome with people walking. 0:43 Direct top aerial view of the center of the Student Union zooming out. 0:46 View of the 3rd Floor Terrace with text that says, “3rd Floor Terrace.” 0:49 View of the Courtyard on the 2nd Floor. 0:50 Beach themed event in the Courtyard with students sitting on beach chairs with text that says, “Your Campus Living Room!” 0:52 Food truck with students waiting for their food 0:55 Student shooting hoops on an inflatable basketball hoop in the Courtyard 1:00 Aztec Student Union cups being filled with pink lemonade from a beverage container. 1:05 Student playing billiards in Aztec Lanes with text that says, “Aztec Lanes.” 1:12 Student bowling in Aztec Lanes 1:15 Camera pan of bowling balls with text that says, “Play at the Union.” 1:19 Soundboard 1:22 Recording microphone on stand 1:24 Inside the Backdoor Studio that contains a green screen, bean bags and a microphone on a stand with a mic shield and text that says, “The Backdoor Studio.” 1:25 Mac Desktops in the Editing Bay 1:27 View of the Courtyard at the top of the steps with a band of students playing and a text that says, “Free Events!” 1:35 ASUB tabling at an event in the Courtyard 1:39 Chipotle entrance 1:40 Inside of Oggi’s 1:42 Aztec Student Union rug 1:44 Murals outside of the Theatre on the 2nd Floor 1:49 Mural inside of Montezuma Hall 1:54 Ice skating event in Montezuma Hall with students walking and taking off their skates 1:56 Ice skating event in Montezuma Hall with students skating 1:57 View of the Courtyard at an Aztec Nights event with text that says, “Host to over 8000 meetings and events.” 2:00 Students in the Courtyard at an Aztec Nights event 2:02 Aztec Nights gobo in the courtyard 2:03 DJ at an Aztec Nights event in the courtyard 2:05 DJ mixing at an Aztec Nights event 2:06 Students sitting at the staircase underneath the North Grand Entry 2:09 Time lapse of the dome with the text, “Welcome Home!” 2:13 Conrad Prebys Aztec Student Union logo In the Union ARC Express Aztec Lanes Aztec Student Union Board (ASUB) Cal Coast Credit Union Center for Intercultural Relations Commuter Center Dining The Backdoor Studio Print Services Student Life & Leadership Student Lounge Study in the Union Student Organizations University Info Center Resources Associated Students Directory Find a Job Digital Signage Request San Diego State University Union Programs & Services Your Voice Matters Student Union Contact A.S. Conrad Prebys Aztec Student Union, 6075 Aztec Circle Drive San Diego, CA 92182-7800 (619) 594-5278 (619) 594-0321 Connect with the Student Union Search A.S. Sitesubmit Download Adobe Acrobat Reader © 2022