Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Asian American Studies Program Toggle navigation Main navigation About People Faculty Affiliated Faculty UAB Members Staff Events The Minor Courses News Awards ASAM Fellows Program Dr. Rosane Rocher Prize for Best Undergraduate Essay in Asian American Studies Podcasts Resources 25th Anniversary Search Fariha I. Khan Co-Director of Asian American Studies fariha@upenn.edu215-898-1782 3718 Locust Walk 459 McNeil Building University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104-6299 Website Fariha Khan is the Co-Director of the Asian American Studies program at the University of Pennsylvania where she also teaches courses on South Asians in the U.S, Asian American Communities, Asian American Food, as well as Muslim Identity in America. She received a Master's degree in Arabic and Islamic Studies from Yale University and a PhD in Folklore and Folklife from the University of Pennsylvania. Her current research focuses on South Asian American Muslims, Pakistani American culture, and the Asian American community. Dr. Khan was appointed in 2015 to the Pennsylvania Governor’s Advisory Commission on Asian Pacific American Affairs and served until 2019. Actively involved in the Philadelphia community, Dr. Khan is Vice Chair of the Board of the Samuel S. Fels Fund and serves on the Board of the American Folklore Society, the Philadelphia Folklore Project, the Philadelphia Asian American Film Festival, and the James Brister Alumni Society. https://asam.sas.upenn.edu/people/fariha-i-khan Education M.A., Yale University, Arabic and Islamic Studies (1994) M.A., University of Pennsylvania, Folklore and Folklife (2001) Ph.D., University of Pennsylvania, Folklore and Folklife (2008) Research Interests Ethnicity and Migration, South Asian Americans, Arab Americans, Muslim Americans, Asian American Community Folklife, APA Activism Courses Taught South Asians in the U.S. Asian American Community Muslim Identity in America Asian American Food Affiliations American Folklore Society Association for Asian American Studies Association for Asian Studies James Brister Society Main navigation People Faculty Affiliated Faculty UAB Members Staff Subscribe to our mailing list ASAM Facebook ASAM YouTube Channel ASAM Instagram ASAM Podcast ASAM Flicker Donate Contact Us Asian American Studies Program asianamerican@sas.upenn.edu 3718 Locust Walk 473 McNeil Building University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104-6299 Phone: 215-898-1782 Fariha Khan Co-Director Eiichiro Azuma Co-Director College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Penn Weblogin