Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Contact Us Asian.Societies.Cultures.and.Languages@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program ASCL Statement Major Minor Language Study Honors Program Course Descriptions Introductory Courses Language Sequences Discipline Specific Courses Interdisciplinary, Interregional, Transnational & Diasporal Courses Advanced Seminars & Honors Thesis Course Schedule Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Foreign Study Programs Chinese LSA+ Japanese LSA+ Vietnam Program Exchange Programs Kanda Exchange Program Keio Exchange Program Waseda Exchange Program Yonsei Exchange Program Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch Foreign Study Programs Exchange Programs Kanda Exchange Program Keio Exchange Program Waseda Exchange Program Yonsei Exchange Program Share Keio Exchange Program Program Overview Keio University, located in downtown Tokyo, is one of Japan's oldest and most prestigious academic institutions. Each academic year it hosts one or two Dartmouth students in either their Japanese Language Program (JLP) or their Keio International Program (KIP), which is comprised of courses taught in English. Learn more from the Guarini Institute. Financial Information Tuition and Fees In addition to the obvious educational benefits, the exchange offers financial advantages. Dartmouth students studying at Keio for a full year are eligible for Keio's support in applying for the Japanese Ministry of Education and Science Scholarship (MEXT). This Japanese government scholarship supports foreign students who study in higher education institutions, selected on the recommendation of Japanese Embassy/Consulate General, University, or Authority. Dartmouth students studying for a single semester are eligible for the Keio University International Center Scholarship. Scholarships such as JASSO are available but are not guaranteed for all the exchange students since the number of recipients is limited. The Japan Student Service Organization (JASSO) Student Exchange Support Program for Short Term Study in Japan (JASSO Scholarship) is available to qualified students who have been admitted to a Japanese college or university for a period of up to one year of study in Japan under a student exchange agreement with a Japanese college or university. The scholarship program is intended to encourage student exchange between universities in Japan and their overseas partner institutions, and to promote understanding and friendship between the participating countries. Monthly stipend: 80,000 yen per month. Read the application guide. Dartmouth students participating on the exchange for one term are expected to pay 1/2 regular tuition to Dartmouth. Dartmouth students participating on the exchange for a full academic year pay Dartmouth 1/2 tuition for the fall and winter terms and are not billed tuition for the Dartmouth spring term. Students will still pay "Other Fees" Dartmouth for each Dartmouth term they are on exchange. Room and board charges, and other program expenses are paid by the student directly to Keio, and these costs may be offset by scholarship support offered by Keio University should the Dartmouth student receive such support. Because the Keio exchange is an official program sponsored by the College, the Dartmouth student does not need to pay the transfer term fee that the College charges to students who study on outside programs during leave terms. The cost of transportation to and from the site is the responsibility of the student. Financial Aid Financial aid is available for official exchange programs arranged through the College. Financial aid awards are adjusted to reflect the actual cost of the exchange term. However, students will receive no more scholarship assistance than they would have received for a term at Dartmouth. Any extra costs associated with the program will be covered by additional loan assistance. Main menu Dartmouth College Asian Societies Cultures Languages Undergraduate About the Program ASCL Statement Major Minor Language Study Honors Program Course Descriptions Introductory Courses Language Sequences Discipline Specific Courses Interdisciplinary, Interregional, Transnational & Diasporal Courses Advanced Seminars & Honors Thesis Course Schedule Foreign Study Foreign Study Programs Chinese LSA+ Japanese LSA+ Vietnam Program Exchange Programs Kanda Exchange Program Keio Exchange Program Waseda Exchange Program Yonsei Exchange Program People Ribbon Footer People Program Chair Allen Hockley allen.hockley@dartmouth.edu Program Administrator Hope Rennie ASCL@Dartmouth.edu Find Us Address 221 Anonymous Hall Dartmouth Collegehttp://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 603-646-0434 HB: HB 6191 Email: Asian.Societies.Cultures.and.Languages@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback