Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Contact Us Asian.Societies.Cultures.and.Languages@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program ASCL Statement Major Minor Language Study Honors Program Course Descriptions Introductory Courses Language Sequences Discipline Specific Courses Interdisciplinary, Interregional, Transnational & Diasporal Courses Advanced Seminars & Honors Thesis Course Schedule Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Foreign Study Programs Chinese LSA+ Japanese LSA+ Vietnam Program Exchange Programs Kanda Exchange Program Keio Exchange Program Waseda Exchange Program Yonsei Exchange Program Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch Foreign Study Programs Chinese LSA+ Japanese LSA+ Vietnam Program Exchange Programs Share Chinese LSA+ Basic information 2021F Beijing LSA+ (downloadable pdf "Info on 2021F Beijing LSA+") Program Overview Beijing classes are taught at a major university, Beijing Normal University, for ten weeks. In addition to its course offerings, Dartmouth-at-BNU gives students the experience of a culture and political climate radically different from their own. Throughout the term and in conjunction with course offerings, trips are taken to places of historical or cultural interest in Beijing and vicinity. There will be two weekend overnight field trips and an 11/12-day mid-term field trip. Learn more about this program from the Guarini Institute. Financial Information Tuition and Fees The fees charged by the College for a Dartmouth-sponsored off-campus term of study include regular tuition charges for a term at Dartmouth, service fees, as well as the specific costs established for each off-campus study locale. In many programs, the room and board costs tend to be higher than for a term in Hanover. You can view a budget sheet for this program. The cost of transportation to and from the site is the responsibility of the student. Financial Aid In order that all qualified Dartmouth undergraduate students may have the opportunity to take part in off-campus programs, the College endeavors to adjust its normal financial aid awards for students already receiving aid. Tuition and expected family contribution for Dartmouth's off-campus programs are the same as for an on-campus term. Assistance is available to meet extra costs associated with off-campus programs, including airfare. Half of any extra cost is met with additional Dartmouth scholarship; loan assistance is offered for the other half. Loan assistance is also offered to replace the employment that would normally be included in an on-campus term. Although financial aid recipients are given aid to cover all of the required costs of the program, students are responsible for purchasing their own plane ticket and, on some programs, meals. Often this means that part of the expected family contribution is used towards these costs rather than for tuition. Main menu Dartmouth College Asian Societies Cultures Languages Undergraduate About the Program ASCL Statement Major Minor Language Study Honors Program Course Descriptions Introductory Courses Language Sequences Discipline Specific Courses Interdisciplinary, Interregional, Transnational & Diasporal Courses Advanced Seminars & Honors Thesis Course Schedule Foreign Study Foreign Study Programs Chinese LSA+ Japanese LSA+ Vietnam Program Exchange Programs Kanda Exchange Program Keio Exchange Program Waseda Exchange Program Yonsei Exchange Program People Ribbon Footer People Program Chair Allen Hockley allen.hockley@dartmouth.edu Program Administrator Hope Rennie ASCL@Dartmouth.edu Find Us Address 221 Anonymous Hall Dartmouth Collegehttp://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 603-646-0434 HB: HB 6191 Email: Asian.Societies.Cultures.and.Languages@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback