Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Contact Us Asian.Societies.Cultures.and.Languages@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program ASCL Statement Major Minor Language Study Honors Program Course Descriptions Introductory Courses Language Sequences Discipline Specific Courses Interdisciplinary, Interregional, Transnational & Diasporal Courses Advanced Seminars & Honors Thesis Course Schedule Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Foreign Study Programs Chinese LSA+ Japanese LSA+ Vietnam Program Exchange Programs Kanda Exchange Program Keio Exchange Program Waseda Exchange Program Yonsei Exchange Program Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch About the Program Major Minor Language Study Honors Program Course Descriptions Introductory Courses Language Sequences Discipline Specific Courses Interdisciplinary, Interregional, Transnational & Diasporal Courses Advanced Seminars & Honors Thesis Course Schedule Share Language Sequences Chinese CHIN 1: First-Year Courses in Chinese An introduction to spoken and written Modern Standard Chinese. Conversational drill and comprehension exercises in the classroom and laboratory provide practice in pronunciation and the use of the basic patterns of speech. Intensive reading is conducted for textbook lessons. Grammar is explained, and written exercises given. Traditional characters are learned in Chinese 1 and 2; simplified characters are introduced in Chinese 2. Classes are conducted increasingly in Chinese. Mandatory student-run drill sessions meet Monday to Thursday for fifty minutes each day for all beginning Chinese language classes. Satisfactory completion of Chinese 3 fulfills the language requirement. Yan, Yan (2 sections) 20F, 21F: 8, 9S CHIN 2: First-Year Courses in Chinese An introduction to spoken and written Modern Standard Chinese. Conversational drill and comprehension exercises in the classroom and laboratory provide practice in pronunciation and the use of the basic patterns of speech. Intensive reading is conducted for textbook lessons. Grammar is explained, and written exercises given. Traditional characters are learned in Chinese 1 and 2; simplified characters are introduced in Chinese 2. Classes are conducted increasingly in Chinese. Mandatory student-run drill sessions meet Monday to Thursday for fifty minutes each day for all beginning Chinese language classes. Satisfactory completion of Chinese 3 fulfills the language requirement. Yan, A Li 21W: 8, 9S, 22W: 8, 9S CHIN 3 First-Year Courses in Chinese An introduction to spoken and written Modern Standard Chinese. Conversational drill and comprehension exercises in the classroom and laboratory provide practice in pronunciation and the use of the basic patterns of speech. Intensive reading is conducted for textbook lessons. Grammar is explained, and written exercises given. Traditional characters are learned in Chinese 1 and 2; simplified characters are introduced in Chinese 2. Classes are conducted increasingly in Chinese. Mandatory student-run drill sessions meet Monday to Thursday for fifty minutes each day for all beginning Chinese language classes. Satisfactory completion of Chinese 3 fulfills the language requirement. A Li (2 sections) 21S: 8, 9S; 22S: 8, 9S CHIN 4 Advanced First-Year Chinese This course is designed for students with varying, minimal levels of competence in speaking, listening, reading, and writing. Weekly class hours include four sixty-five minute sessions with the master teacher and up to four fifty-minute drill and/or conversation sessions. There are weekly exams, a midterm, and a final, as well as writing assignments, oral presentations, and supplementary work assigned as needed. This course seeks to achieve two goals: 1) to help students equalize their levels of the required speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills; 2) to allow them to raise these levels and thereby significantly increase their understanding of Modern Standard Chinese. Chinese 4 is an accelerated first-year course. Satisfactory completion in Chinese 4 satisfies the Foreign Language Requirement and places the student in the 20-level series. Students who plan to use this course to fulfill the language requirement may not take it under the Non-Recording Option. Chen, A. Li, A. Li (3 sections) 20F, 21F: 9S, 11, 12 CHIN 22 Intermediate Modern Chinese (Beijing LSA+ and FSP; also offered on campus) CHIN 22 and CHIN 23 cover a full second-year level course, using the textbook Integrated Chinese, Level Two and a variety of other materials. The course is designed for students who have completed CHIN 4 or the equivalent. Students who have only completed CHIN 3 may be eligible for this course with permission of the instructor. Class hours include four sixty-five or five fifty-five-minute sessions with the master teacher and up to four fifty-minute drill and/or conversation sessions. There are weekly exams, a midterm, and a final, as well as writing assignments, oral presentations, and supplementary work assigned as needed. This series is intended to raise the student's levels speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills and, thereby, significantly increase their understanding of Modern Standard Chinese. Dist: LIT; WCult: NW Zhang; Chen, Yan 21F: LSA+ (Dartmouth in China): 21 W: 9S (2 sections) CHIN 23 Intermediate Modern Chinese (Beijing LSA+; also offered on campus) CHIN 22 and CHIN 23 cover a full second-year level course, using the textbook Integrated Chinese, Level Two and a variety of other materials. The course is designed for students who have completed CHIN 4 or the equivalent. Students who have only completed CHIN 3 may be eligible for this course with permission of the instructor. Class hours include four sixty-five or five fifty-five-minute sessions with the master teacher and up to four fifty-minute drill and/or conversation sessions. There are weekly exams, a midterm, and a final, as well as writing assignments, oral presentations, and supplementary work assigned as needed. This series is intended to raise the student's levels speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills and, thereby, significantly increase their understanding of Modern Standard Chinese. Dist: LIT; WCult: NW Zhang; Yan, S. Li 21F: LSA+ (Dartmouth in China); 21S: 9S, 9S; 22S: 9S, 9S CHIN 31 Advanced Modern Chinese (Beijing LSA+ and FSP; also offered on campus) Readings will be selected from literary, political, and historical publications. There will be regular exams, writing exercises, oral presentations, and supplementary work assigned as needed. Dist: LIT; WCult: NW Zhang, S. Li 21F LSA+ (Dartmouth in China); 20F, 21F: 9S CHIN 32 Advanced Modern Chinese (Beijing LSA+ and FSP; also offered on campus) Readings will be selected from literary, political, and historical publications. There will be regular exams, writing exercises, oral presentations, and supplementary work assigned as needed. Zhang, S. Li Dist: LIT; WCult: NW 21F: LSA+ (Dartmouth in China); 21W, 22W: 10 CHIN 33 Advanced Modern Chinese (Beijing LSA+ and FSP; also offered on campus) Readings will be selected from literary, political, and historical publications. There will be regular exams, writing exercises, oral presentations, and supplementary work assigned as needed. Zhang, S. Li Dist: LIT; WCult: NW 21F: LSA+ (Dartmouth in China); 21S:10; 22S: 10 CHIN 40 Advanced Chinese 040 courses are "topics courses" designed to develop mastery of the spoken and written language. Students who have completed at least two 30-level courses are encouraged to continue their language study through 040 courses. Depending on the topic, readings are drawn from literary, cultural, political, business, and historical publications. Assigned work includes written and oral presentations. Prerequisites: Two, 30-level courses CHIN 40.01 Advanced Chinese (Beijing LSA+; also offered on campus) Advanced readings from literary, political, and historical publications. Zhang; S. Li Dist: LIT; WCult: NW 21F: LSA+ (Dartmouth in China); 19X, 20X: 10 CHIN 40.02 Advanced Chinese (Beijing LSA+; also offered on campus) Advanced readings from literary, political, and historical publications. Zhang, Li Dist: LIT; WCult: NW 21F: LSA+ (Dartmouth in China); 20F, 21F:10 CHIN 40.03 Advanced Reading in Modern Chinese Short Stories (Fourth-year level) (Beijing LSA+; also offered on campus) This course aims to help students develop an ability to use Chinese at an advanced level – critical reading of original literary works, writing and speaking to express a broad range of topics, as well as literature appreciation, through reading selected modern Chinese short stories by well-known Chinese writers. Not open to students who have received credit for CHIN 043. Two third-year level Chinese courses or permission of the instructor. Dist: LIT; WCult: NW Zhang; S. Li 21F: LSA+ (Dartmouth in China); 21W:10, 22W: 10 CHIN 40.04 Advanced Chinese for Commerce and Economics This course will improve students' four communication skills (reading, writing, listening, and speaking), with a particular emphasis on speaking and writing, while also introducing students to an array of authentic and relevant economy-related topics and materials in Chinese. Course materials will include essays, dialogues, business cases and newspaper articles, as well as supplementary audio-visual materials. Students will learn about the general economic and business environment in China and will use the case study method to gain insights into the business models of specific, influential Chinese companies and international firms that have successfully entered the Chinese market. The course will further develop students' Chinese proficiency at an advanced level. The combination of textbook and supplementary readings, and topic-based knowledge beyond "pure language" will achieve the goal of enhancing both students' language ability and their understanding of the world of Chinese business. Yan 21S: 10, 22S: 10 CHIN 45.01 Introduction to Classical Chinese This course is an introduction to the basic grammar and vocabulary of the Classical Chinese language. Original Chinese texts of the pre-Qin and early Han periods will be discussed in class. However, before we discuss them, the student will be required to write the assigned text, as indicated in the Class Schedule below, from memory at the beginning of each class. Xing Dist: LIT; WCult: NW Not to be offered in the period from 20F through 21S CHIN 49 Independent Advanced Study in Chinese Language and Literature Available to students who wish to do advanced or independent study in Chinese. Chinese 49 may be considered a non-language course with approval of the advisor. The student must first submit a proposal to the Major/Minor advisor Instructor: ASCL Faculty Offered Fall, Winter, Spring Japanese JAPN 1 First-Year Courses in Japanese An introduction to written and spoken modern Japanese. In addition to mastering the basics of grammar, emphasis is placed on active functional communication in the language, reading comprehensions, and listening comprehension. Conversational drill and comprehensive exercises in classroom and laboratory provide practice in pronunciation and the use of the basic patterns of speech. Classes are conducted in Japanese. Reading in simple materials is extensive. Mandatory student-run drill sessions meet four times a week for fifty minutes for all beginning Japanese language classes. Ishida, Watanabe 20F: 9S, 9S, 21F: 9S, 9S JAPN 2 First-Year Courses in Japanese An introduction to written and spoken modern Japanese. In addition to mastering the basics of grammar, emphasis is placed on active functional communication in the language, reading comprehensions, and listening comprehension. Conversational drill and comprehensive exercises in classroom and laboratory provide practice in pronunciation and the use of the basic patterns of speech. Classes are conducted in Japanese. Reading in simple materials is extensive. Mandatory student-run drill sessions meet four times a week for fifty minutes for all beginning Japanese language classes. Ishida, Watanabe 21W: 9S, 9S; 22W: 9S, 9S JAPN 3 First-Year Courses in Japanese An introduction to written and spoken modern Japanese. In addition to mastering the basics of grammar, emphasis is placed on active functional communication in the language, reading comprehensions, and listening comprehension. Conversational drill and comprehensive exercises in classroom and laboratory provide practice in pronunciation and the use of the basic patterns of speech. Classes are conducted in Japanese. Reading in simple materials is extensive. Mandatory student-run drill sessions meet four times a week for fifty minutes for all beginning Japanese language classes. Students who plan to use this course to fulfill the language requirement many not take it under the Non-Recording Option. Satisfactory completion of Japanese 3 fulfills the language requirement. Never serve in partial satisfaction of Distributive or World Culture requirements. Ishida, Watanabe 21S: 9S, 9S; 22S: 9S, 9S JAPN 22 Intermediate Modern Japanese (Tokyo LSA+; also offered on campus) A continuation of the fundamentals of grammar and further acquisition of spoken communication skills, aural comprehension, and proficiency in reading and writing. This is an intensive course that integrates homestays and the local environment into course materials. Students will be expected to master a wide range of reading and video materials. Ishida, Ishida Dist: WCult: NW 20F: 10; 21X, 22X: LSA+ (Dartmouth in Japan) JAPN 23 Intermediate Modern Japanese (Tokyo LSA+; also offered on campus) A continuation of the fundamentals of grammar and further acquisition of spoken communication skills, aural comprehension, and proficiency in reading and writing. This is an intensive course that integrates homestays and the local environment into course materials. Students will be expected to master a wide range of reading and video materials. Watanabe Dist: LIT; WCult: NW 21S: 10; 21X, 22X: LSA+ (Dartmouth in Japan) JAPN 31 Advanced Modern Japanese A progression of materials from JAPN 23. Intensive review and continued study of modern Japanese at the advanced level. Conversation skills will continue to be an important aspect of this course, but more emphasis will be placed on reading and writing skills. Reading materials will be drawn from current newspapers, contemporary fictions, essays from journals, and excerpts from poetry. Short audiovisual selections will be used as well. Assigned work includes written compositions and oral presentations. Watanabe Dist: LIT; WCult: NW 20F: 11; 21F:11 JAPN 32 Advanced Modern Japanese A progression of materials from JAPN 31. A variation of materials used in JAPN 31. Note: Although the materials used in this course differ from the materials used n JAPN 31, the general level of proficiency required to enroll in either JAPN 31 or JAPN 32 is roughly equivalent. Students may take JAPN 32 even if they have been unable to enroll in JAPN 31. Ishida Dist: LIT; WCult: NW 21W: 11, 22W:11 JAPN 33 Advanced Modern Japanese A continuation and progression of materials in JAPN 31 and JAPN 32. Note: The level of proficiency required to enroll in JAPN 33 is higher than the proficiency required for either JAPN 31 or JAPN 32. Ishida Dist: LIT; WCult: NW 21S: 11; 22S:11 JAPN 40 Advanced Japanese 040 courses are "topics courses" designed to develop mastery of the spoken and written language. Students who have completed at least two 30-level courses are encouraged to continue their language study through 040 courses. Depending on the topic, readings are drawn from literary, cultural, political, business, and historical publications. Assigned work includes written and oral presentations. Prerequisites: Two, 30-level courses JAPN 40.01 Advanced Japanese A variation of materials used in JAPN 33. Note: although the materials used in this course differ from the materials used n JAPN 33, the general level of proficiency required to enroll in either JAPN 33 or JAPN 41 is roughly equivalent. Students may take JAPN 41 even if they have been unable to enroll in JAPN 33. Ishida Dist: LIT; WCult: NW 20F: 11; 21F: 11 JAPN 40.02 Advanced Japanese A progression of materials from JAPN 41. Designed to develop mastery of the spoken and written language. Assigned work includes written and oral presentations. Dist: LIT; WCult: NW Watanabe 21W, 22W: 11 JAPN 40.03 Advanced Japanese A progression of materials from JAPN 41 and JAPN 42. Designed to develop mastery of the spoken and written language. Assigned work includes written and oral presentations. Watanabe Dist: LIT; WCult: NW 21S, 22S:11 JAPN 45.01 Classical Japanese Grammar and Translation Workshop The students will first learn the basic grammar and vocabulary of classical Japanese through the textbook and workbook, rather than lectures given by the instructor. Class time is spent on comparing the students' answers to clarify specific difficulties and doing new exercises as a group. Once the basics are introduced and learned, the students will translate excerpts of classical literature, such as the Tale of Genji and Hōjōki, as homework and compare their works in class. Schmidt-Hori Dist: LIT; WCult: NW Not to be offered in the period from 20F through 21S JAPN 49 Independent Advanced Study in Japanese Language and Literature JAPN 49 is for students who wish to pursue language study under the supervision of an ASCL affiliated faculty member. JAPN 49 is intended for advanced language learners whose abilities lie beyond upper level courses offered by ASCL. JAPN 49 cannot be used as a substitute for regularly taught language courses. Students must work with a faculty supervisor to develop a proposed plan of study. The proposal must be submitted to the ASCL Steering Committee for review during the fifth week of term prior to that in which the advanced study is undertaken. Offered Fall, Winter, Spring Main menu Dartmouth College Asian Societies Cultures Languages Undergraduate About the Program ASCL Statement Major Minor Language Study Honors Program Course Descriptions Introductory Courses Language Sequences Discipline Specific Courses Interdisciplinary, Interregional, Transnational & Diasporal Courses Advanced Seminars & Honors Thesis Course Schedule Foreign Study Foreign Study Programs Chinese LSA+ Japanese LSA+ Vietnam Program Exchange Programs Kanda Exchange Program Keio Exchange Program Waseda Exchange Program Yonsei Exchange Program People Ribbon Footer People Program Chair Allen Hockley allen.hockley@dartmouth.edu Program Administrator Hope Rennie ASCL@Dartmouth.edu Find Us Address 221 Anonymous Hall Dartmouth Collegehttp://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 603-646-0434 HB: HB 6191 Email: Asian.Societies.Cultures.and.Languages@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback