Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Contact Us Asian.Societies.Cultures.and.Languages@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program ASCL Statement Major Minor Language Study Honors Program Course Descriptions Introductory Courses Language Sequences Discipline Specific Courses Interdisciplinary, Interregional, Transnational & Diasporal Courses Advanced Seminars & Honors Thesis Course Schedule Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Foreign Study Programs Chinese LSA+ Japanese LSA+ Vietnam Program Exchange Programs Kanda Exchange Program Keio Exchange Program Waseda Exchange Program Yonsei Exchange Program Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch About the Program Major Minor Language Study Honors Program Course Descriptions Course Schedule Share Honors Program Overview The ASCL Honors Program consists of a two-course sequence comprised of ASCL 90 and ASCL 91. For students accepted into the Honors Program, ASCL 90 replaces the ASCL 80 Advanced Seminar requirement and counts as the Program’s culminating experience. ASCL 91 is an extra course added on to the ten-course ASCL major. Eligibility and Application Process Students with a College GPA average of 3.0 and a Program GPA average of 3.5 are eligible to apply to the Honors Program. Applicants to the Honors Program require the support of an ASCL faculty member who has agreed to supervise the research and writing of the applicant’s honors thesis. Students are strongly encouraged to initiate discussion with a potential faculty adviser as early as possible in the junior year. Applications require a thesis proposal developed in consultation with the student’s thesis advisor. Thesis Proposal Honors thesis proposals should include the following: Thesis title. The name of the faculty advisor. A clear statement of the research questions the student intends to address in their thesis. A review of existing scholarship related to the research project. A discussion of principal methods and sources the student plans to utilize when addressing the research questions. (Note: research involving human subjects must have prior approval from Dartmouth's Committee for the Protection of Human Subjects). A work schedule organized like a course syllabus with weekly readings, writing assignments, and meetings with faculty advisors. The work schedule should include both courses of the honors sequence and any research conducted abroad during the winter or spring breaks. A description of the student's curricular or other preparation for the project. A bibliography of proposed readings organized to reflect various facets of the project. Thesis Submission and Deadlines Students may elect to complete their two term honors thesis in either fall-winter or winter-spring. Deadlines for submissions of thesis proposals are the end of the seventh week of an applicant’s junior spring term for those undertaking a fall-winter thesis, and the end of the seventh week of an applicant’s senior fall term for those undertaking a winter-spring thesis. Proposals should be submitted to the ASCL chair. Admission to the Honors Program will be determined by a vote of the ASCL Steering Committee. Thesis Completion Requirements Students in the Honors Program must maintain a B+ average in their course work and in ASCL 90, otherwise, their project will be terminated. In such cases ASCL 90 would count as the student’s culminating experience. An oral presentation to ASCL faculty and students is a required component of the thesis. Presentations are usually held during the second or third week of May. An electronic copy of the thesis must be submitted for evaluation by the end of the seventh week of the final term of the two-course sequence. A bound copy of the thesis must be turned in to the ASCL office no later than the last day of spring term classes. Completion of the thesis is a requirement for, but not a guarantee of, Honors or High Honors in the AMES major. Main menu Dartmouth College Asian Societies Cultures Languages Undergraduate About the Program ASCL Statement Major Minor Language Study Honors Program Course Descriptions Introductory Courses Language Sequences Discipline Specific Courses Interdisciplinary, Interregional, Transnational & Diasporal Courses Advanced Seminars & Honors Thesis Course Schedule Foreign Study Foreign Study Programs Chinese LSA+ Japanese LSA+ Vietnam Program Exchange Programs Kanda Exchange Program Keio Exchange Program Waseda Exchange Program Yonsei Exchange Program People Ribbon Footer People Program Chair Allen Hockley allen.hockley@dartmouth.edu Program Administrator Hope Rennie ASCL@Dartmouth.edu Find Us Address 221 Anonymous Hall Dartmouth Collegehttp://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 603-646-0434 HB: HB 6191 Email: Asian.Societies.Cultures.and.Languages@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback