Skip to main content About About ASI 2020-2025 Strategic Plan ASI Staff Employment Opportunities Student Leadership Opportunities Involvement Opportunities Maps & Directions COVID-19 Updates Fees Student Government About Student Government Student Leaders Agendas & Minutes Policies, Bylaws, Resolutions, & Proposals Elections Budget & Financial Statements Programming About Programming Programming Team Upcoming Events Titan Student Union About the TSU Hours of Operation University Conference Center Titan Bowl & Billiards Woolly Mammoth Food Court Children’s Center About the Children’s Center Children’s Center Staff Virtual Resources Enrollment & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Parenting Resources Internships Children’s Center Parents & Pals (CCPAP) Services Accounting Camp Titan ASI Food Pantry Legal Help & Referrals Human Resources Information & Services ASI Executive Senate Marketing & Design Office & Locker Space Research Grants Scholarships Titan Recreation About Titan Recreation Hours Facility Reservations Member Services American Red Cross Aquatics Fitness Titan Youth Summer Camp ESports Intramural Sports Rock Wall Titan Outdoors Titan Recreation Team Building Titan Recreation Portal Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion IRA Instructionally Related Activities About About ASI 2020-2025 Strategic Plan ASI Staff Employment Opportunities Student Leadership Opportunities Involvement Opportunities Maps & Directions COVID-19 Updates Fees Student Government About Student Government Student Leaders Agendas & Minutes Policies, Bylaws, Resolutions, & Proposals Elections Budget & Financial Statements Programming About Programming Programming Team Upcoming Events Titan Student Union About the TSU Hours of Operation University Conference Center Titan Bowl & Billiards Woolly Mammoth Food Court Children’s Center About the Children’s Center Children’s Center Staff Virtual Resources Enrollment & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Parenting Resources Internships Children’s Center Parents & Pals (CCPAP) Services Accounting Camp Titan ASI Food Pantry Legal Help & Referrals Human Resources Information & Services ASI Executive Senate Marketing & Design Office & Locker Space Research Grants Scholarships Titan Recreation About Titan Recreation Hours Facility Reservations Member Services American Red Cross Aquatics Fitness Titan Youth Summer Camp ESports Intramural Sports Rock Wall Titan Outdoors Titan Recreation Team Building Titan Recreation Portal Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion IRA Instructionally Related Activities Cookie Policy Our Cookie Policy Last Updated 1/2/2020 This Cookies Policy explains what Cookies are and how we use them. You should read this policy so you can understand what type of cookies We use, or the information we collect using Cookies and how that information is used. Cookies do not typically contain any information that personally identifies a user, but personal information that we store about You may be linked to the information stored in and obtained from Cookies. For further information on how We use, store and keep your personal data secure, see our Privacy Policy. We do not store sensitive personal information, such as mailing addresses, account passwords, etc. in the Cookies We use. Interpretation and Definitions Interpretation The words of which the initial letter is capitalized have meanings defined under the following conditions. The following definitions shall have the same meaning regardless of whether they appear in singular or in plural. Definitions For the purposes of this Cookies Policy: Company (referred to as either “the Company”, “We”, “Us” or “Our” in this Cookies Policy) refers to Associated Students Inc., Cal State Fullerton, 800 N. State College Blvd, Fullerton, CA 92832. You means the individual accessing or using the Website, or a company, or any legal entity on behalf of which such individual is accessing or using the Website, as applicable. Cookies means small files that are placed on Your computer, mobile device or any other device by a website, containing details of your browsing history on that website among its many uses. Website refers to ASI Website, accessible from https://asi.fullerton.edu. The use of the Cookies Type of Cookies We Use Cookies can be “Persistent” or “Session” Cookies. Persistent Cookies remain on your personal computer or mobile device when You go offline, while Session Cookies are deleted as soon as You close your web browser. We use both session and persistent Cookies for the purposes set out below: Necessary / Essential Cookies Type: Session Cookies Administered by: Us Purpose: These Cookies are essential to provide You with services available through the Website and to enable You to use some of its features. They help to authenticate users and prevent fraudulent use of user accounts. Without these Cookies, the services that You have asked for cannot be provided, and We only use these Cookies to provide You with those services. Functionality Cookies Type: Persistent Cookies Administered by: Us Purpose: These Cookies allow us to remember choices You make when You use the Website, such as remembering your login details or language preference. The purpose of these Cookies is to provide You with a more personal experience and to avoid You having to re-enter your preferences every time You use the Website. Your Choices Regarding Cookies If You prefer to avoid the use of Cookies on the Website, first You must disable the use of Cookies in your browser and then delete the Cookies saved in your browser associated with this website. You may use this option for preventing the use of Cookies at any time. If You do not accept Our Cookies, You may experience some inconvenience in your use of the Website and some features may not function properly. If You’d like to delete Cookies or instruct your web browser to delete or refuse Cookies, please visit the help pages of your web browser. For the Chrome web browser, please visit this page from Google: https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/32050 For the Internet Explorer web browser, please visit this page from Microsoft: http://support.microsoft.com/kb/278835 For the Firefox web browser, please visit this page from Mozilla: https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/delete-cookies-remove-info-websites-stored For the Safari web browser, please visit this page from Apple: https://support.apple.com/guide/safari/manage-cookies-and-website-data-sfri11471/mac For any other web browser, please visit your web browser’s official web pages. More Information about Cookies You can learn more about Cookies at the following third-party websites: Network Advertising Initiative: http://www.networkadvertising.org/ Contact Us If you have any questions about this Cookies Policy, You can contact us: By phone number: 657-278-2468 About ASI The Associated Students provides student development opportunities through leadership, volunteer, and employment experiences. In addition, the Associated Students provides campus community members with important social, cultural, and recreational opportunities, as well as, a wide range of programs and services. 800 N State College Blvd., Fullerton, 92831 (657) 278-2468 asclerical@fullerton.edu Resources Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers Associated Students, Inc. | 800 N State College Blvd., Fullerton, 92831 | California State University, Fullerton By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Accept Cookies