Skip to main content About About ASI 2020-2025 Strategic Plan ASI Staff Employment Opportunities Student Leadership Opportunities Involvement Opportunities Maps & Directions COVID-19 Updates Fees Student Government About Student Government Student Leaders Agendas & Minutes Policies, Bylaws, Resolutions, & Proposals Elections Budget & Financial Statements Programming About Programming Programming Team Upcoming Events Titan Student Union About the TSU Hours of Operation University Conference Center Titan Bowl & Billiards Woolly Mammoth Food Court Children’s Center About the Children’s Center Children’s Center Staff Virtual Resources Enrollment & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Parenting Resources Internships Children’s Center Parents & Pals (CCPAP) Services Accounting Camp Titan ASI Food Pantry Legal Help & Referrals Human Resources Information & Services ASI Executive Senate Marketing & Design Office & Locker Space Research Grants Scholarships Titan Recreation About Titan Recreation Hours Facility Reservations Member Services American Red Cross Aquatics Fitness Titan Youth Summer Camp ESports Intramural Sports Rock Wall Titan Outdoors Titan Recreation Team Building Titan Recreation Portal Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion IRA Instructionally Related Activities About About ASI 2020-2025 Strategic Plan ASI Staff Employment Opportunities Student Leadership Opportunities Involvement Opportunities Maps & Directions COVID-19 Updates Fees Student Government About Student Government Student Leaders Agendas & Minutes Policies, Bylaws, Resolutions, & Proposals Elections Budget & Financial Statements Programming About Programming Programming Team Upcoming Events Titan Student Union About the TSU Hours of Operation University Conference Center Titan Bowl & Billiards Woolly Mammoth Food Court Children’s Center About the Children’s Center Children’s Center Staff Virtual Resources Enrollment & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Parenting Resources Internships Children’s Center Parents & Pals (CCPAP) Services Accounting Camp Titan ASI Food Pantry Legal Help & Referrals Human Resources Information & Services ASI Executive Senate Marketing & Design Office & Locker Space Research Grants Scholarships Titan Recreation About Titan Recreation Hours Facility Reservations Member Services American Red Cross Aquatics Fitness Titan Youth Summer Camp ESports Intramural Sports Rock Wall Titan Outdoors Titan Recreation Team Building Titan Recreation Portal Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion IRA Instructionally Related Activities Fees Student Fees Explained Each semester the Associated Student Body (ASI) and Campus Union (TSU) fees go towards funding a variety of student focused services and programs and multiple essential areas related to ASI staffing and facility management. Download the Student Fees Explained PDF. Student Services & Scholarships Between the ASI and TSU fees, close to $1,500,000 is put towards student focused efforts and offerings. This includes our student government functions, Leader and Program Development, student leader awards, ASI scholarships, and Titan Athletics’ student athlete scholarships. Student Programs & Events and Funded Organizations ASI organizes and hosts multiple major student focused events throughout the year and provides funding to student clubs and organizations annually. This funding assists students with the ability to attend events/conferences, build relationships, and work towards achieving their goals. Each semester, roughly $900,000 is allotted to these areas. Facility Use, Debt Payments, and Maintenance Each semester it takes approximately $3,500,000 to fund essential areas related to our ASI facilities. This funding provides for the continued payment of debt services, building maintenance and custodial services. Staffing and Administrative Functions ASI relies on its professional staff and student employees to provide services to students and other members of the campus community. Both the ASI and TSU fees provide nearly $4,000,000 in funding to ensure that our staff and essential administrative areas are able to continue working to meet the needs of our constituents. The Impact of COVID-19 The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic has presented an opportunity for ASI to re-evaluate and refine our current practices. ASI continues to evaluate and identify where we, as an organization, can pivot and innovate as we work our way through a virtual academic year. Despite working remotely, we have adapted and continued to offer many of our services and programs including: Student Government operations Financial Services functions to student clubs and organizations Student Scholarships program Titan Recreation Children’s Center ASI Corporate Operations (Accounting, Human Resources, etc.) Additionally, ASI has changed the way many of our programs and services are offered to better fit with the requirements of a socially distanced school year. These changes include: Completely virtual program offerings like All Day ASI, streaming concert and speaker series, and weekly Street Team meetings via Zoom. Each of our student government meetings are held via Zoom and are open to the public. Our Food Pantry is operating on a weekly basis and has transitioned to a drive-up pantry with online reservations for the pickup of prepackaged items. Titan Recreation is providing virtual fitness classes taught by many of its fitness instructors on YouTube and has created new fitness opportunities such as the Titan Recreation Virtual Race Series and the Titan Outdoors Hiking Club. The Children’s Center has implemented weekly classroom meeting sessions with children and families via Zoom and provides learning resources for families each week via the virtual resources section on the Children’s Center webpage. The Center also reopened its doors mid-fall for a pilot childcare program hosting subsidized preschool age children while following strict COVID-19 guidelines. ASI has also created multiple internal working groups composed of ASI professional staff members from across the organization. This includes, but is not limited to working groups focused on anti-racism, diversity, equity, and inclusion, virtual programming, and return to operations planning. About ASI The Associated Students provides student development opportunities through leadership, volunteer, and employment experiences. In addition, the Associated Students provides campus community members with important social, cultural, and recreational opportunities, as well as, a wide range of programs and services. 800 N State College Blvd., Fullerton, 92831 (657) 278-2468 asclerical@fullerton.edu Resources Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers Associated Students, Inc. | 800 N State College Blvd., Fullerton, 92831 | California State University, Fullerton By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Accept Cookies