Skip to main content About About ASI 2020-2025 Strategic Plan ASI Staff Employment Opportunities Student Leadership Opportunities Involvement Opportunities Maps & Directions COVID-19 Updates Fees Student Government About Student Government Student Leaders Agendas & Minutes Policies, Bylaws, Resolutions, & Proposals Elections Budget & Financial Statements Programming About Programming Programming Team Upcoming Events Titan Student Union About the TSU Hours of Operation University Conference Center Titan Bowl & Billiards Woolly Mammoth Food Court Children’s Center About the Children’s Center Children’s Center Staff Virtual Resources Enrollment & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Parenting Resources Internships Children’s Center Parents & Pals (CCPAP) Services Accounting Camp Titan ASI Food Pantry Legal Help & Referrals Human Resources Information & Services ASI Executive Senate Marketing & Design Office & Locker Space Research Grants Scholarships Titan Recreation About Titan Recreation Hours Facility Reservations Member Services American Red Cross Aquatics Fitness Titan Youth Summer Camp ESports Intramural Sports Rock Wall Titan Outdoors Titan Recreation Team Building Titan Recreation Portal Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion IRA Instructionally Related Activities About About ASI 2020-2025 Strategic Plan ASI Staff Employment Opportunities Student Leadership Opportunities Involvement Opportunities Maps & Directions COVID-19 Updates Fees Student Government About Student Government Student Leaders Agendas & Minutes Policies, Bylaws, Resolutions, & Proposals Elections Budget & Financial Statements Programming About Programming Programming Team Upcoming Events Titan Student Union About the TSU Hours of Operation University Conference Center Titan Bowl & Billiards Woolly Mammoth Food Court Children’s Center About the Children’s Center Children’s Center Staff Virtual Resources Enrollment & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Parenting Resources Internships Children’s Center Parents & Pals (CCPAP) Services Accounting Camp Titan ASI Food Pantry Legal Help & Referrals Human Resources Information & Services ASI Executive Senate Marketing & Design Office & Locker Space Research Grants Scholarships Titan Recreation About Titan Recreation Hours Facility Reservations Member Services American Red Cross Aquatics Fitness Titan Youth Summer Camp ESports Intramural Sports Rock Wall Titan Outdoors Titan Recreation Team Building Titan Recreation Portal Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion IRA Instructionally Related Activities Titan Recreation About Titan Recreation Titan Recreation is a part of Associated Students Inc. (ASI) and promotes the belief that fitness should be for all – no matter your size, shape, fitness level, or physical ability. Collegerank.net named the Student Recreation Center (SRC) one of the 35 most luxurious student recreation centers in the United States. With everything from an indoor rock wall to a martial arts studio, the SRC has something for everyone. Mission Statement: Our mission is to provide inclusive recreational opportunities to inspire the development and well-being of the campus community. Vision Statement: Impactful participation in recreation by all. Facility Features Cardio Fitness Room & Weight Training Area 60+ cardio machines 80+ strength machines 12 dual function training motion machines Our facility includes mini bands, slam balls and speed ropes from Living Fit! Multi-court Gymnasium 22,000 square foot gymnasium space Three separate courts with curtain dividers and scoreboards. Indoor Jogging Track 7,000 square foot elevated jogging track Three running lanes with directional arrows and pace clocks 10 laps = 1 mile Multipurpose Activity Rooms 7,600 square feet of activity space Three multipurpose activity rooms Racquetball Courts Two courts dedicated for racquetball and handball Free equipment rental Courts can be reserved 24 hours in advance Rock Wall 1,100 square foot wall for bouldering, top rope, and lead climbing 30′ high and 27′ wide with accommodations for 8 top rope stations Spin Room Dedicated room for spin classes 27 lighted spin bikes Floor Exercise & Stretch Area Dedicated space for pre and post workout stretching and floor exercises Cardio Studio 2,000 square feet Featuring the Queenax Functional Fitness System Multiple cardio fitness equipment options Outdoor Pool Dedicated swim lanes Recreational swim area Pool deck with lounge chairs F45 Studio $15 per semester for students $25 per semester for all other members Dedicated instructors Map & Directions Directions from the north Take the 57 Freeway South and exit at Yorba Linda Blvd. Turn right (west) onto Yorba Linda Blvd. Turn left (south) onto North Campus Drive. Turn right onto Student Union Way. Turn left onto Gymnasium Drive. The Student Recreation Center will be located to your right. Directions from the south Take 57 Freeway North and exit at Nutwood Ave. Turn left (west) onto Nutwood Ave. Turn right (north) onto State College Blvd. Turn right onto Corporation Drive. Turn right onto Student Union Way. Turn left onto Gymnasium Drive. The Student Recreation Center will be located to your right. Frequently Asked Questions View our Frequently Asked Questions for all programs and services at the Student Recreation Center. 3356 Average Daily Patrons 127 Student Employees 95000 Square Feet of Recreational Space 116 Open Hours Per Week Hours of Operation Below are the Student Recreation Center operating hours for the 2022 Summer semester. Building Operating Hours Building Operating Hours Day Hours Monday - Friday 6AM - 8PM Saturday-Sunday 8AM - 6PM Family Hours Student Recreation Center members are allowed to bring two (2) minors to the facility during Family Hours. The minors must be with the member at all times and are only allowed to utilize the courts, rock wall, or pool when available. Family Hours Day Hours Monday - Friday After 5PM Saturday - Sunday 8AM - 6PM Pool Hours Pool Hours Day Hours Monday - Friday 7AM - 6PM Saturday-Sunday 11AM - 5PM Rock Wall Hours Rock Wall Hours Day Hours Monday - Friday 3PM - 6PM Saturday - Sunday Noon - 3PM Facility Reservations All reservations of space within the Student Recreation Center must be made through Titan Recreation. All groups, student organizations, campus departments, and off-campus groups reserving and using space within the Student Recreation Center must abide by all policies and procedures set in place. Student Organizations All student organizations reserving Student Recreation Center facilities must have an active Associated Students Inc. Agency account with a minimum balance of $50.00 and be registered with the Office of Student Life & Leadership. Reservation Process The reservation of Student Recreation Center facilities by registered student organizations must be executed by the appointed or elected officers, leaders or chairpersons of that organization. Reservation must be made through Titanlink. Registered student organizations may reserve Student Recreation Center facilities up to 6 months in advance Hours per Reservation Student organizations may schedule up to two (2) single-date reservations each semester. The rock wall is reservable for special events. Recognized student organizations may schedule one (1) event per semester during specific hours as determined by the Titan Recreation Director. Labor charges will be waived for up to three (3) hours, with a maximum of twenty-four (24) participants. Student organizations may choose to pay for additional time when the reservation is made. No-Show Policy If a student group fails to notify Titan Recreation of a meeting cancellation in advance and does not show up to their scheduled meeting or event, the group may be considered a “no show.” The first “no show,” the group will be issued a written warning. After the second “no show” within the same semester, the group may be charged a fee. This charge must be paid within five (5) working days, or by the next reservation, whichever comes first. After the third “no show” within the same semester, or if a group fails to pay their 2nd no show violation fee on time, the group will be charged an additional fee, and all reservations currently on the books may be immediately cancelled and the group may not be allowed to make any further reservations until the charge is paid. Campus Departments Full-time, permanent staff within CSUF departments and support groups can submit reservation requests for Student Recreation Center facilities by contacting Titan Recreation at titanrecreation@fullerton.edu. Recognized CSUF faculty/staff may reserve Student Recreation Center facilities up to 5 months in advance. Off Campus Organizations Representatives of off-campus organizations can submit reservation requests for Student Recreation Center by contacting Titan Recreation at titanrecreation@fullerton.edu. General public may reserve Student Recreation Center facilities up to 4 months in advance. Important Reservation Information Deadlines All details associated with the use of facilities must be completed by the deadline date. The deadline date will be determined according to the following schedule: Meetings – must be finalized 3 business days (72 hours) prior to the meeting date. Minor events – events which require no special staffing or set-up, have simple AV requirements, or exclude alcohol service must be finalized ten (10) business days prior to the event date. Major events – dances, banquets, concerts and other events that require special staffing or set-up, have complex AV requirements, or include alcohol must be finalized fifteen (15) business days prior to the event date. Additional deadline dates may be assigned for the Event Planning Process and must be met in order to maintain the reservation. Automatic Scheduling of Facilities When necessary, the Titan Recreation staff may determine that certain established events should be scheduled in advance of established timeframes if it has been determined that these events are in the best interest of the Titan Recreation and student life. Event Planning Process Once a reservation has been confirmed, the event planning process is completed only when the requester has met all deadlines dates, other administrative requirements and received written confirmation from Titan Recreation. The following procedures regarding the planning process must be followed. The planning of activities, meetings or programs by recognized clubs or organizations must be executed by the appointed or elected officers, leaders or chairpersons. The person responsible for the event must complete all reservations details and must be in attendance at the event. Titan Recreation must be informed in advance of any change in the person responsible for an event. Failure of a group to comply with this policy may result in the immediate loss of all facility use privileges. Payment for all costs associated with an event is due no later than 10 business days prior to the event date. All groups with payments which are more than 90 days past due to the ASI may be restricted from making new SRC facilities and/or equipment reservations or bookings until all such past due payments are cleared with Titan Recreation or ASI Financial Services. Failure to follow and meet any event planning procedures and/or deadline dates may result in cancellation of the reservation. Ticketing Any event which restricts access to attendees who have a ticket, whether or not a cost is involved, must abide by the following terms. All “presale” and “day of event” ticket sales for events, sponsored by registered student organizations, held in Student Recreation Center facilities must be conducted by Titan Recreation. Groups may be charged a fee for the coordination of ticket sales. Groups may also be charged the appropriate hourly rate for any special staffing needed to conduct such sales. Registered student organizations may not elect to conduct their own ticket sales or resale tickets following their purchase from the Student Recreation Center. Member Services The Student Recreation Center offers a complimentary membership to currently enrolled CSUF students. In addition, we offer other memberships for CSUF Faculty/Staff, Alumni, Community (i.e. those directly connected to CSUF or a current Student Recreation Center member), and more. Student Membership SRC - Student Membership CSUF Student (Per Academic Year) Non-Enrolled Student (One Semester Off) Free $50 Current CSUF Student Currently enrolled CSUF Students receive a complimentary membership with the Student Recreation Center. The membership is paid under the Campus Union Fee, Category II. If a student, i.e current freshman, is under the age of 18, they must complete the Under 18 Waiver and have a parent or guardian sign it. Once they return the signed waiver, you can manually set up their membership. Visit the front desk at the Student Recreation Center to receive the Under 18 Waiver. Non-enrolled Student Non-enrolled students are those who graduated the previous semester or are taking a semester off. For example, you graduated at the end of Fall semester but want a membership through the Spring semester; or you graduated at the end of Spring semester and would like a Summer membership. To purchase this pro-rated membership based on the criteria above, visit the front desk at the Student Recreation Center. Activating your Student Membership You can activate your membership in-person at the front desk of Student Recreation Center or via the Titan Recreation app. The app provides the unique barcode you will need to scan and gain access into the facility. Visit the Apple Store or Google Play Store and search for Titan Rec. View our short, 1-minute How to activate your student membership video, or view the step-by-step process below. Visit the Titan Recreation Portal Sign-in with your campus portal login (exclude @csu.fullerton.edu) Select Membership Select Student Membership and add it to your cart Review and sign waivers Select checkout and you are all set! Alumni Membership Alumni (Monthly) Alumni (Per Semester) Alumni Weekends Only (Monthly) Alumni Weekends Only (Per Semester) Alumni Weekends Only (Yearly) $25 $120 $13.75 $65 $165 CSUF Alumni To purchase an Alumni Membership at the Student Recreation Center, individuals must purchase the Alumni Association Membership first. Once purchased, please bring your Alumni Association Membership card, or proof of purchase, to the front desk of the Student Recreation Center to proceed with purchasing our Alumni Membership. Purchase your Alumni Association Membership now. Alternatively, Alumni have the option of purchasing an Alumni Weekend Only membership for a lower rate. Community Membership CSUF Community (Monthly) CSUF Community (Per Semester) $32 $155 Community A Community Membership is for anyone who has a connection to Cal State Fullerton, or a connection to a current Student Recreation Center member. The following individuals fall under the Community Membership: Adult children, adult siblings, parents of Faculty/Staff Spouse/Domestic Partner of Faculty/Staff (includes ASI Pro Staff) Student Spouse/Domestic Partner of Current CSUF Student Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI) Members Students, Faculty/Staff of Marshall B. Ketchum University and Hope International To purchase your Community Membership, please visit the front desk at the Student Recreation Center. Faculty/Staff Membership CSUF Faculty Staff (Monthly) CSUF Faculty Staff (Per Semester) CSUF Faculty Staff (Per Year) $25 $120 $300 CSUF Faculty/Staff Faculty and staff of CSUF can purchase a Faculty/Staff Membership at monthly, semesterly, or yearly price. The following individuals fall under the Faculty/Staff Membership: University Auxiliary Staff University Faculty/Staff Retired/Emeritus Fac/Staff ASC – Benefited/Non-Benefited Extended Education Post Doctorates To purchase your Faculty/Staff Membership, please visit the front desk at the Student Recreation Center. * Associated Students Incorporated (ASI) employees receive a complimentary membership to the Student Recreation Center and need to activate that membership to gain access to the facility. International Student Membership International Students (Per Semester) $120 International Student The following international students on F-1 or J-1 visa status would be eligible to use the SRC much like non-international CSUF degree-seeking students. The below-listed international students would not need to pay for a membership. International students pursuing a degree program (bachelor’s, master’s, or doctorate) International students pursuing credential programs International students pursuing Artist’s Diploma/Music Performance Certificate or TESOL Certificate International students on a J-1 visa status participating in CSUF exchange programs International students on F-1 status who are participating in non-degree program called University Semester Abroad Program (USA) and enrolled through Open University would need to pay for a membership. These students will have a special letter that must be presented upon payment at the Student Recreation Center. To purchase your International Student Membership, please visit the front desk at the Student Recreation Center. Services Towel Service All Student Recreation Center members have the option to purchase towel service. These towels can be used for the pool or showers. Small workout towels are free for all members to use during their visit. Day Use Semester Year $1 $10 $20 Locker Service Lockers are sold to members wishing to keep their personal belongings in the facility overnight. If you wish to use a locker for the day, you can utilize the Day Use lockers. Day Use lockers are located throughout the facility, or as the middle and bottom set of lockers in each middle bay of the locker room. Locker Service Day Use Semester Year Free $25 $75 Equipment Checkout At equipment checkout, we offer the following equipment to all Student Recreation Center members free of charge. To borrow equipment, simply scan your Member ID for a Customer Service Attendant. All equipment must be checked back in after use. Equipment Available Badminton Racquets Basketballs Footballs Jump Ropes Racquetball Racquets Soccer Balls Tennis Rackets Volleyballs Membership Cancellation, Refund, and Transfer Forms If you are interested in canceling your membership, please fill out the Membership Cancellation Form If you are interested in requesting a program/class transfer or program refund, please fill out the Refund/Transfer Form Frequently Asked Questions Is my student membership free to the Student Recreation Center? Yes, we provide you with a complimentary membership for currently enrolled CSUF Students that is paid through your Campus Union fee. Your membership is always complimentary if you are a currently enrolled in classes which also includes summer classes. Can I come to the Student Recreation Center after I graduate? Yes! You must purchase an Alumni Association Membership first. Once purchased, you can sign up for an Alumni Membership with the Student Recreation Center. What other membership options are available? We offer memberships for Faculty/Staff, Alumni, International Students, and Community. To view more information regarding pricing for these memberships visit the Member Services section on our website. Are there lockers available to store my personal belongings while I work out? We have free day-use lockers available in the men’s and women’s locker room as well as specific locations throughout the first floor of the facility. You can also purchase a semester locker for $25 or a year locker for $75. At the end of each semester, or each year, you can renew your locker online through the Titan Recreation portal. Are towels free to use at the Student Recreation Center? We provide workout towels available during your workout. If you need to purchase a shower or pool towel, you can do that through our towel service. It is $10 per semester, $25 per year, or $1 a day. Towel service can be purchased via the Titan Rec app or in-person at the Student Recreation Center. Do you offer equipment that we can use for free? Yes, with your membership you have access to our Equipment Checkout which includes basketballs, soccer balls, footballs, tennis rackets, racquetball equipment, and jump ropes. Can I bring a guest to the Student Recreation Center? Yes, you can bring a guest to the Student Recreation Center who is over the age of 18. Our guest pass costs $10 per visit and can be purchased at the Student Recreation Center. American Red Cross Titan Recreation offers a variety American Red Cross classes that aim to teach skills and techniques to new and experienced participants. Classes are taught by Certified American Red Cross Instructors and are available to CSUF students, Student Recreation Center members, and non-members. Certifications Adult & Pediatric CPR/AED Students will learn how to check a conscious and unresponsive person and how to administer care. Students will learn CPR compressions, rescue breaths, and the use of an AED. Students will also learn how to assess if a person is choking and techniques to remove chocking hazard. Students will receive certification in Adult and Pediatric CPR/AED which is valid for 2 years. Adult & Pediatric CPR/AED with First Aid Students will learn how to check both conscious and unresponsive adults, children, and infants, and how to administer care. Students will learn CPR compressions, rescue breaths, and the use of an AED. Students will also learn how to assess if a person is choking and techniques to remove chocking hazard. Students will learn standard first aid care for sudden illness and injury. Students will receive certification in Adult & Pediatric CPR/AED/First Aid which is valid for 2 years. Wilderness First Aid This 16 hour course is perfect for outdoor enthusiast, recreation participant, or those who work in the back country setting for research or any other purpose. We will cover advanced skills to be used in emergencies when help from professional first responders may be far away. Be prepared fun hands on practical training of the following topics: Primary and Secondary Assessments, Head/Brain, Neck and Spinal Injuries, Heat-Related Emergencies, Hypothermia, Altitude-Related Illnesses, Allergies and Anaphylaxis, Burns, Bone and Joint Injuries, Wounds and Wound Infection. Frequently Asked Questions Can anyone take American Red Cross courses? Yes, you do not have to be a member to take our American Red Cross courses. Prices vary per course. What courses do you offer through American Red Cross? We offer Adult & Pediatric CPR/AED, Adult & Pediatric CPR/AED with First Aid, and Wilderness First Aid. How long is my CPR/First aid certification good for? Your CPR and First Aid certifications are good for 2 years. Will my Red Cross certification cross over to American Heart Association? No, unfortunately, it is a slightly different course. Be sure to check with your employer to see if they will accept the Red Cross Certification. How long does it take to get my certificate after I complete a Red Cross class? Usually less than 2 business days Aquatics Titan Recreation offers two lap lanes, space for leisure, water volleyball and basketball, and space to lounge and relax with friends. Our pool is always heated making it a perfect to enjoy year round. Learn-to-Swim Learn to Swim Schedule Week Date Session 1 June 20-July 1 Session 2 July 5-15 (Does not meet on July 4) Session 3 July 18-29 Session 4 August 1-12 Learn to Swim Pricing Session Non-Member Member, CSUF Faculty, CSUF Staff Session 1 $65 $60 Session 2 $60 $55 Session 3 $65 $60 Session 4 $65 $60 Please contact src-aquatics@fullerton.edu with any question. Learn-to-Swim Class Descriptions Parent and Me: 6mos-3years | Registration | Questions? Children must be at least 6 months old to enroll. A parent or guardian must accompany each child in the water and participate in the classes. This class is designed to help infants and toddlers become comfortable in and around the water with a parent or guardian. The class teaches parents techniques to help orient their children to water activities in a safe manner. This class is NOT designed to teach children to become good swimmers or to survive in the water on their own. Skills include blowing bubbles, kicking, holding onto the wall, floating on front and back, and water safety skills. Swim Diapers must be worn by all children and must be provided by the parent/guardian. Tiny Tots: 3-5 years | Registration | Questions? A class for preschoolers who have little to no aquatic experience. Fun and safety are emphasized while learning necessary swimming skills such as water entry and exit, face submergence, blowing bubbles, water adjustment, kicking, exploring arm movements, and safety skills. Level 1: 5-12 Years | Registration | Questions? A class for children who have little to no aquatic experience. Fun and safety are emphasized while learning necessary swimming skills: water entry and exit, face submergence, water adjustment, floating on front and back, retrieval of submerged objects, and safety skills. In this class children will learn how to side breathe as well as practice freestyle and backstroke. Level 2: 5-12 years | Registration | Questions? Class reviews entry by stepping or jumping from side, bobbing, head submergence and holding breath, floating on front and back, treading water, side breathing, freestyle, backstroke, and safety skills. Participants will also be introduced to elementary backstroke. Prerequisite – Participant must be able to demonstrate the following with little to no assistance: safely enter and exit the water, float on front and back without support, swim freestyle the entire length of the pool. Level 3: 5-12 years | Registration | Questions? In this class, children will review side breathing techniques, freestyle, backstroke, and elementary backstroke. They will also be introduced to breaststroke and kneeling and standing dives. Participants will continue to practice treading water, retrieving submerged objects, and safety skills. Prerequisite – Participants should be extremely comfortable in the water and able to swim at least one lap (25 yards) without any assistance. Level 4: 5-12 years | Registration | Questions? Class will continue to practice treading water, retrieving submerged objects, kneeling, and standing dives, and safety skills. Along with perfecting freestyle, backstroke, and breaststroke, they will be introduced to butterfly. Prerequisite – Participants should be noticeably confident freestyle swimmers and comfortable with backstroke and breaststroke Level 5: 5-12 years | Registration | Questions? Swimmers will work on alternate breathing, stride jump, refinement of freestyle, backstroke, elementary backstroke, sidestroke, breaststroke, dolphin kick and butterfly, open turn on front and back, feet-first surface dive, and treading water. Prerequisite – Participants should be extremely comfortable in the water and able to swim at least one lap of butterfly, backstroke, breaststroke, and freestyle without assistance. Fitness Titan Recreation provides a wide variety of in-person and virtual fitness classes and programs that will teach you skills and techniques to improve your fitness level regardless of your skill level. In-person classes are held on campus at the Student Recreation Center. All of our classes are taught by certified professionals that utilize the most up-to-date industry trends, techniques and choreography to give you the most effective workout experience possible. Spring 2022 Group Exercise Classes Schedule Group Exercise Classes Titan Recreation Group Exercise Classes allow members to develop and expand skills related to the latest group exercise trends. Check out this semester’s classes below! Spring 2022 Group Exercise Classes Schedule Time Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 6:30 - 7:30 AM Spin Spin Spin NOON - 1PM Guts, Butts, & Thighs Yoga Guts, Butts, & Thighs Yoga NOON - 1PM Spin Pilates Spin 1PM - 2PM Hip Hop Hip Hop 3 PM - 4 PM Yoga Yoga Hip Hop 5:30 PM - 6:30 PM Spin Barre Hip Hop Hip Hop 5:30 - 6:30PM Guts, Butts, & Thighs 6:30 - 7:30PM 305 Fitness 305 Fitness 7:30 - 8:30PM Zumba Zumba Register for Group Exercise here. Guts, Butts, & Thighs Target your core, glutes, and legs through a series of cardio and strength training exercise that will keep your heart rating going. Join this class for a fast-paced and diverse workout. Spin Enjoy a vigorous, but non-impact, cardio workout. Learn proper set-up, riding technique, proper form, moves, and safety techniques. This class is great for all cyclist. Barre Barre combines elements of pilates, ballet, yoga, and dance to develop flexibility, strength, and tone. Yoga Focus on the mind-body benefits of Yoga with this intense class. Improve your overall conditioning, balance, flexibility and strength with this vigorous format. All levels welcome! Zumba Zumba is a fusion of Latin and International music that creates a dynamic, fun, and effective fitness routine. Achieve long-term benefits in this exciting hour of calorie-burning dance based class! 305 Fitness 305 is an addictively fun high-intensity dance cardio class that works you head to toe. Drop it low, tone it up, and shake it out! Martial Arts & Dance Classes Cardio Kickboxing Get ready to increase your flexibility, strength, and cardiovascular endurance while learning practical self-defense skills. This class will allow you to learn techniques in kickboxing to help develop your coordination and timing while being motivated to reach your fitness goals! All gear is provided and all levels are welcome! Session 1: February 21st-March 25th Mondays and Wednesdays 11am-12pm Session 2: April 4th-May 13th Mondays and Wednesdays 11am-12pm Register for cardio kickboxing here. Ballet This beginning level class is designed to develop awareness of alignment and basic ballet vocabulary and technique. This class will enhance coordination, balance and flexibility with the teaching of basic ballet positions, steps, and terminology through standing barre work and simple center floor exercises. Session 1 Section 1: February 22nd-March 25th Mondays 5:30-6:30pm Session 1 Section 2: February 22nd-March 25th Wednesdays 5:30-6:30pm Session 2 Section 1: April 4th-May 14th Mondays 5:30-6:30pm Session 2 Section 2: April 4th-May 14th Mondays 5:30-6:30pm Register for ballet here. Jazz This class is a great way to work on your technique in jazz dance. We will work on flexibility, turns, leaps, kicks and much more while dancing with a fun and energetic style. Join this class and get a whole body work out while also learning new moves and having fun in the process. Session 1: February 21st-March 25th Tuesdays 5:30pm-6:30pm Session 2: April 4th-May 13th Wednesdays 5:30-6:30pm Register for jazz here. Contemporary Dance Contemporary dance is a style of expression that combines elements of several dance genres including modern, jazz, lyrical and classical ballet. Contemporary dancers strive to connect the mind and the body through fluid dance movements. In this class, you will learn to focus on using gravity to pull you down to the floor and stress versatility and improvisation. Contemporary dance can be performed to many different styles of music, and is a great way to enhance rhythmic flow and movement. Session 1: February 21st-March 25th Tuesdays 6:30pm-7:30pm Session 2: April 4th-May 13th Mondays 6:30-7:30pm Register for contemporary dance here. F45 F45 F45 is a functional high intensity interval training (HIIT) workout geared towards everyday movement. 45 stands for the total amount of time for the workout. Spring 2022 F45 Schedule (Feb 7-May 20) Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 7:00 - 7:45 AM 7:00 - 7:45 AM 7:00 - 7:45 AM 8:00 - 8:45 AM Noon - 12:45 PM Noon - 12:45 PM 1:00-1:45 PM 1:00-1:45 PM 1:00-1:45 PM 1:00-1:45 PM 2:00 - 2:45 PM 2:00 - 2:45 PM 2:00 - 2:45 PM 2:00 - 2:45 PM 6:30 - 7:15 PM 6:30 - 7:15 PM 6:30 - 7:15 PM Register for F45 here. F45 Challenge App You can join the F45 Challenge app for FREE by signing up with your CSUF email. Get access to recorded classes, nutrition, and more! Register for the F45 Challenge App here Personal Training Virtual Personalized Programming Don’t need a trainer but would like an exercise program to follow on your own? Let our Personal Trainers Program a plan specifically for you with our Virtual Personal Training Services! Using Trainerize; an online app that connects you directly to your trainer; we provide workouts, direct chat, and more! Whether you are at home, or training at the Titan Rec Center, we are here to help you reach your goals based on the equipment that you have access to. We offer a 5 week personalized training option, and a 10-week personalized training option, both at one flat rate. Register for Virtual Personal Training. Frequently Asked Questions Are fitness classes free? Yes! We offer over 50+ free Drop-in Fitness classes per week at the Student Recreation Center. What other fitness classes do you offer? We offer Dance and Martial Arts classes for an additional fee. We typically offer two sessions per semester that run for six weeks. Classes can be purchased via the Titan Rec app or in-person at the Student Recreation Center. How do I check-in for a Drop-in Fitness class? You can register for class in advance on the Titan Recreation app! When you arrive at your class location, an instructor will check you in. What is F45 and how do I take a class? F45 is a functional high intensity interval training (HIIT) workout geared towards everyday movement. 45 stands for the total amount of time for the workout. To take our F45 classes, you must purchase an F45 membership. How much is an F45 membership? We offering our F45 membership at $10 per semester for students and $25 per semester for all other members. This is compared to $70+ per month at a local F45 studio. Do you offer Personal Training? Yes! We offer one on one personal training or buddy personal training sessions. Sessions come in packages of one, five, or ten. If purchasing a buddy session, the “buddy” must be a member of the Student Recreation Center. I am intimidated by the weight room. What do I do? We offer Weight Room orientations, including Women only Weight Room orientations, for free to give you a tour of the facility and ask our Personal Trainer questions about the equipment we provide. All our Precor equipment has QR codes on the machine that you can scan with your phone to view a demonstration video as well. Titan Youth Summer Camp Titan Youth Summer Camp at the Student Recreation Center is back this summer, June 6-August 5! The camp specializes in youth-oriented recreation and sports-related activities, including basketball, bowling, flag football, swimming, rock wall climbing, soccer, softball, arts & craft, and team building/leadership activities. The Titan Youth Summer Camp offers nine individual week-long sessions for children aged 4-12 years old, consisting of your choice of full- (9AM-5PM) or half-day (9AM-1PM) options. Extended care is also available, with drop-offs starting at 7AM, and pick-ups extending as late as 6:30PM. Titan Youth Summer Camp 2022 Schedule The Titan Youth Summer Camp is about learning skills, developing character, and making friends. We strongly encourage you to register your child for the full day, if possible, in order for your child to enjoy all aspects of camp. Swimming, movies, and alternate activities are only offered in the afternoon and really complete the camp day and experience. Week Date Week 1 June 6-10 Week 2 June 13-17 Week 3 June-20-24 Week 4 June 27-July 1 Week 5 July 5-8 (Does not meet on, Monday, July 4) Week 6 July 11-15 Week 7 July 18-22 Week 8 July 25-29 Week 9 August 1-5 Titan Youth Summer Camp 2022 Pricing Fees include all camp activities, swimming, and a camp t-shirt. Lunch is not included and must be provided by the camper’s Parents/Guardians each day. The last day to register for each week is the Friday prior to the start of that camp week by noon. If you miss that deadline, you would need to register in person the following Monday and will incur a late registration fee. TYSC Pricing for Weeks 1-4, 6-9 Care Non-Member Member, CSUF Faculty, CSUF Staff Full Day (9AM-5PM) $245 $196 Half Day (9AM-1PM) $145 $116 Extended Care $25 $25 Late Registration $270 $221 TYSC Pricing for Week 5 Care Non-Member Member, CSUF Faculty, CSUF Staff Full Day (9AM-5PM) $196 $156 Half Day (9AM-1PM) $116 $92 Extended Care $20 $20 Late Registration $221 $181 Registration Registration for Summer 2022 is now open! You can register online, at your convenience! Register Now! Additional registration information and instructions can be found on this page. You can also register in person at the front desk of the Student Recreation Center (SRC) during our normal operating hours on the campus of Cal State Fullerton. SRC Operation Hours Monday – Thursday: 6AM – 12AM Friday: 6AM – 10PM Saturday – Sunday: 8AM – 10PM Parent Orientation Information Parent orientation is an integral part of the Titan Youth Summer Camp experience. It is your opportunity to meet the counselors and instructors interacting with your child this summer and get any last-minute questions answered before summer programming begins. It is also a chance to tour our facilities, pick up any materials your child will need in the upcoming weeks, and receive your parking pass. This summer’s parent orientation will be on Saturday, June 4, from 11AM to 3PM at the Student Recreation Center. Drop-in anytime! Parking Information The Titan Youth Summer Camp parking is located in Lot D, adjacent to the Student Recreation Center (SRC), near the CSUF tennis courts. Each family will receive a parking permit valid for the dates listed on your confirmation/receipt during parent orientation. The permit is valid for Lot D and marked stalls located in the “park ‘n pay” area on the ground floor of the parking structure directly behind the SRC. If you have extended business in the SRC or elsewhere on campus, you must purchase a day pass for $8 at the dispensers located in the parking structure. For Titan Youth Summer Camp questions, please email us at tyscadmin@fullerton.edu or call at (657) 278-5583. Esports Esports at Titan Recreation invites gamers of all levels to participate in our recreational tournaments. Tournaments are available online and in-person for all CSUF students. Tournament Registration Spring 2022 tournament registration is now open! Register for the Spring 2022 Tournaments here. Tournaments will take place in March and April. There will be only two in-person tournaments. All in-person tournaments will take place at Titan Bowl & Billiards (lower level of the Titan Student Union). ESports Tournaments ESports Tournaments Details Tournament Date Time Format Mario Kart Tuesday, March 22 7 PM In-person Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Thursday, April 19 7 PM In-person Tournament Rule Books 2v2 Rocket League Rules 1v1 Rocket League Rules Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Rules 2v2 Call of Duty Cold War Rules Mario Kart Rules Events This semester we will be hosting a collaborative Gaming Social with the Gaming Club for all gamers and anyone who is interested! Come hang out, play games, win prizes, and enjoy food as we relax before Finals! ESports Social Events ESports Social Events Event Date Time Location Gaming Social TBD TBD TBD Discord Join our Discord server where you can chat with other CSUF gamers, look for groups to game with, and ask us any questions! Join our Discord server here. Intramural Sports Titan Recreation offers inclusive and engaging intramural sports throughout the school year for members of all levels. Leagues consist of men’s, women’s, open and co-ed teams, with sports such as basketball, soccer, volleyball, flag football, and much more. You can create a team, join a team, or sign up as a free agent and compete against your fellow Titans on campus. Sign up and pay your participation fees on IMLeagues.com today to participate in the Spring seasons! Season, Leagues, & Sports Important Dates The preseason session is February 28 – March 3 and the regular season runs from March 7 through May 12. Leagues Offered There are men’s, women’s, co-ed, and open (non-gendered) leagues available. Sports Offered Basketball, 7v7 outdoor soccer, flag football, softball, volleyball, badminton, and billiards will be offered for the Spring 2022 semester. Registration Registration is now open for the Spring 2022 intramural season. Important Dates The preseason session is February 28 – March 3 and the regular season runs from March 7 through May 12. Participation Fee The Participation Fee must be paid online via the Titan Rec app which is available in the Apple Store., via Google Play, or in person at the Student Recreation Center in order to participate in the Intramural Season. Cost Student $10 | Member $15 | *Non-Member $20 *Non-member refers to Hope International Students only. Late registration opens on March 7 and will require an additional $5. IMLeagues Once you’ve paid the participation fee, register for the sport(s) you would like to play by visiting IMLeagues. Contact Us For Intramural Sports questions, please email us at intramuralsports@fullerton.edu Frequently Asked Questions Is it free to play intramurals? No. Intramurals are not free for any members. We have an additional fee that is $10 for students, $15 for faculty/staff, and $20 for all other members. Can I play multiple sports? Yes, you can sign up for multiple leagues each semester. How do I register for intramurals? You must register online via the Titan Rec app or in-person at the Student Recreation Center to pay for your Intramural Participation fee. Once paid, visit IMLeagues to join the league(s) of your choice as part of a team or free agent. Please keep in mind that there will be an additional $5 late fee if your participation fee is not paid for on time. Rock Wall If you miss the 30ft rock wall at the SRC then what are you waiting for! We have reopened! We have worked hard to keep you connected to other climbers during this challenging year but now the best way to connect with climbers is at our wall. Our staff is back and we have brand new routes, harnesses, and shoes ready for your climbing adventures! Come into the wall and get some vertical movement going! We missed you but are excited to see you back Climbing Classes Climbing Fundamentals Created for newer climbers, this class is designed to teach basic climbing technique and body positioning. During this class you will learn efficient movement, climbing terminology, different types of climbing holds and how to use them, and how to push yourself up the wall instead of pulling yourself up. Class dates vary. Student $10 | Member $15 Register for Climbing Fundamentals. Lead Climbing This intermediate class is designed to teach competent climbers and belayers the ins and outs of lead climbing! Must be a top rope belayer and can climb a grade of 5.9. This three hour class covers all the equipment needed and gives time to cover climbing basics and belaying technique for lead climbing. Class dates vary. Student $45 | Member $55 Register for Lead Climbing. Top Rope Belaying A beginning class designed to teach the new climber all the safety skills needed to pass the rock wall belay test. This two hour class includes all equipment and gives you practical time to learn to belay, use the gear, and understand the rock wall safety procedures. Class dates vary. Student $35 | Member $45 Register for Top Rope Belaying. Climbing Routes Do you want to know about the routes available at the climbing wall? Check out the following link to see the up to date routes and boulder problems! Rock Wall Routes. Frequently Asked Questions How much does it cost to use the Rock wall? The Rockwall is free to use with your student membership! We have all the gear and staff you need to have a good time. Just show up and we will get you outfitted and climbing in minutes at no cost! Can you teach me how to climb? Of course! If you want to learn how to climb casually then just come in and climb! Our staff will help coach you and get you to the top! If you prefer a more structured learning path, we encourage you to sign up for our paid Climbing Fundamentals course where we go over climbing movement, technique, and more. If you are looking to dive deeper into climbing, we also offer the following paid classes Top Rope Belaying and Lead Climbing. Is climbing hard? It looks scary and there is no way I could ever do that! Sure, climbing can be intimidating but it’s not as hard as you think! If you can go up a ladder you can go up a wall. Our wonderful staff will be able to coach you up the wall and get you off the ground as much as you are comfortable with. Contact Us For more information about climbing classes or other Rock wall questions, email Michael Brown at michaelbrown@fullerton.edu Titan Outdoors If you are tired of virtual experiences and need a digital detox, Titan Outdoors has your back! Check out our selection of in-person trips! Our trips have safe COVID-19 guidelines to keep you and the other participants safe while having a blast in the outdoors! All trips include transportation, gear, trip leaders, and recreation fees. Our overnight trips include food! If you aren’t quite ready for in-person events yet then be sure to join our hiking club for a series of exciting hikes around the Orange County area where you can win prizes and stickers for each of the hikes. If you want more of an adventure, but don’t know where to go, be sure to check out our Local Guide! It’s a great launching point to plan your weekend! Gear Rental Gear Rental Get geared up with Titan Outdoors! Do you have an epic expedition in mind? How about a quick local quest? No matter your goals Titan Outdoors can help you achieve them with our gear rental. We have all the equipment you need at great prices for your outdoor trip! To get started, fill out our gear rental form. Titan Outdoors Gear Rental Gear 4-Day Rental for Students 9-Day Rental for Students 4-Day Rental for Members 9-Day Rental for Members Sleeping Bag $15 $25 $25 $35 Zero-Degree Bag $30 $45 $40 $55 Two-Person Tent $15 $25 $25 $35 Three-Person Tent $20 $30 $30 $40 Six-Person Tent $30 $50 $40 $60 Eight-Person Tent $40 $60 $50 $75 Backpacking Stove $15 $25 $25 $35 Camp Stove $25 $40 $35 $50 Backpacking Pot Set $5 $10 $10 $20 50-Liter Backpack $15 $25 $25 $35 Ensolite Sleeping Pad $5 $10 $10 $20 Camp Chair $5 $10 $10 $20 Trekking Poles $5 $10 $10 $20 Lantern $5 $10 $10 $20 Hiking Boots $15 $25 $25 $35 Stand-Up Paddle Package $30 $50 $40 $60 25L Dry Bag $5 $10 $10 $20 Micro Spikes $5 $10 $10 $20 Spring 2022 Trips Sespe Wilderness Backpacking – February 11 – 13 Students $125 | Members $150 | Guest $175 Hike with Titan Outdoors along beautiful Sespe Creek, explore the Los Padres National Forest, and spend the night by a natural hot springs. Registration for this trip has closed Full Moon Hike – February 16 Students $40 | Members $50 | Guest $60 Enjoy the night time beauty of Serrano Ridge to the light of the full moon! This hike shows off great views of Orange County during sunset and moon rise. Registration for this trip has closed Crystal Cove State Park Hiking – February 19 Students $40 | Members $50 | Guest $60 Spend the day at beautiful Crystal Cove. Hiking in the morning then exploring the beach in the afternoon. Registration for this trip has closed Hollywood Sign Hike – February 26 Students $40 | Members $50 | Guest $60 Hike with Titan Outdoors as we explore historic Griffith Park and the iconic Hollywood Sign. With scenic views of downtown LA and the classic Hollywood Sign, this is a must do. Registration for this trip has closed. New Jack City Rock Climbing – March 12 Students $50 | Members $60 | Guest $70 New Jack City is a classic southern California Climbing area that has something for every level of climber. No climbing experience needed! Registration for this trip has closed. Grand Canyon National Park Spring Break – March 25 – 29 Students $400 | Members $450 | Guest $500 This five day trip to the Grand Canyon includes plenty of hiking, sightseeing and even a day of rafting in the canyon itself. There is no better way to spend your break. Registration for this trip has closed. Full Moon Paddle – March 28 Students $50 | Members $60 | Guest $70 Enjoy a fun paddle in the dark to the light of a full moon with Titan Outdoors! Registration for this trip has closed. Newport Backbay Stand Up Paddling – April 9 Students $50 | Members $60 | Guest $70 Enjoy the coastal side of Stand Up paddling in Newport. We will float through the peaceful and protected wetlands of Newport Bay Conservancy. Registration for this trip has closed. Holcomb Valley Rockclimbing – April 16 Students $50 | Members $60 | Guest $70 Holcomb Valley is a moderate mecca with hundreds of routes being 5.10 and under in difficulty. No matter how your experience climbing outside there is fun to be had. Registration for this trip has closed Titan Outdoors Earth Day Pool Bash – April 21 Students $0 | Members $0 | Guest $0 Join other adventurers for this on campus event at the SRC pool. Slacklining, s’mores, trivia, give aways and food to celebrate Earth Day! Anze Borrego State Park Camping – April 22 – 24 Students $140 | Members $160 | Guest $180 Anza Borrego State Park has everything from slot canyons, wind caves, and desert oases. This trip has everything you want to see in a weekend the desert. Registration for this trip has closed Full Moon Paddle – April 26 Students $50 | Members $60 | Guest $70 Enjoy a fun paddle in the dark to the light of a full moon with Titan Outdoors! Registration for this trip has closed Mt Baldy Hike – April 30 Students $40 | Members $50 | Guest $60 Mt Baldy is perhaps the most iconic mountain in Southern California. Day hikers, backpackers and mountaineers should be prepared for a hard day but rewarded with great views! Registration for this trip has closed Golden Trout Wilderness Backpacking – May 6 – 8 Students $150 | Members $150 | Guest $175 Get ready for a great backcountry adventure in the Golden Trout Wilderness located in the southern Sierras with Titan Outdoors. Registration for this trip has closed Silverwood Lake Stand Up Paddling – May 14 Students $50 | Members $60 | Guest $70 Get ready for summer with some stand up paddling! Join Titan Outdoors as we paddle around beautiful Silverwood Lake in the San Gabriel Mountains. Register for Silverwood Lake Stand Up Paddling Full Moon Paddle – May 26 Students $50 | Members $60 | Guest $70 Enjoy a fun paddle in the dark to the light of a full moon with Titan Outdoors! Register for Full Moon Paddle Utah National Parks Camping – May 27 – June 1 Students $500 | Members $550 | Guest $600 From a campsite between Bryce Canyon and Zion National Parks, spend your time hiking in Bryce Canyon, exploring the Narrows of Zion, cycling through the park, and exploring Buckskin Gulch. Register for Utah National Parks Camping Leave No Trace Nine out of ten people who visit the outdoors are uninformed about Leave No Trace or the importance of minimizing their impacts. With over 13 billion trips into the outdoors in the U.S. alone every year, people are causing significant preventable damage, and that damage is adding up. Leave No Trace is on the forefront of changing this troubling trend—the littered parks and damaged trails, the formidable impacts of fire, polluted waterways, damage to historic artifacts, and serious wildlife issues. The Leave No Trace organization is built upon the belief that if people do something, even something simple, to help take care of the outdoors that they cherish, we will all benefit. Leave No Trace is a universal philosophy that can be part of any outdoor experience. The very nature of Leave No Trace lends itself well to fostering a cooperative spirit of stewardship. 7 Principles of Leave No Trace Plan Ahead and Prepare Travel and Camp on Durable Surfaces Dispose of Waste Properly Leave What You Find Minimize Campfire Impacts Respect Wildlife Be Considerate of Other Visitors Local Guide Titan Outdoors Local Guide Titan Outdoors has put together a local guide for all your outdoor needs. This guide is by no means comprehensive, but it provides the tools you’ll need to start your adventure. No matter if you want to hike, ride, paddle, or camp, this guide is a great resource to help you in the direction you want to go…outside! Frequently Asked Questions What is included in each trip?* We set our trips up to make it easy for you to participate in fun outdoor activities! All our day trips include transportation to and from campus, all gear needed for the specific activity, all entry fees and permits required, and trained and awesome student trip leaders that can help keep everyone safe! Our overnight trips also include food for the entire trip as well. *this response does not include COVID regulations. If regulations are in place, our Outdoor & Rock Wall Adventure Coordinator will ensure all participants are up to date. I’ve never gone camping, how much experience do I need? None! We all start somewhere, and we are happy to have you start here! Most of our trips are designed for newer recreation users. We love showing people a good time in the wilderness! What if I don’t have any outdoor gear? If you don’t have any gear that is okay! All you need to participate in our trips is your clothes and to be excited. We handle the rest of it for you! My friends are going camping this week and I would love to go with them. Can I use your gear? Of course! We offer a lot of gear for rent at an incredibly low price for 4-day or 9-day rentals. Prices start as low as $5 for the whole weekend for some gear. For more information, view our Gear Rental Reservation Form. Contact Us For more information about outdoor trips, gear rental, and other Titan Outdoors questions, email Michael Brown at michaelbrown@fullerton.edu Titan Recreation Team Building Titan Recreation now provides engaging team building events designed to improve communication, stimulate better decision making, and create stronger bonds among the members of your club, group, office or organization. We offer a variety of facilitated virtual and in-person sessions to help your group achieve its goals. For more information, contact Michael Brown by emailing him at michaelbrown@fullerton.edu. Titan Recreation Team Building Frequently Asked Questions What is Titan Recreation Team Building? Our Team Building sessions are a series of upbeat and engaging activities designed to enable your group to think and work together to accomplish a goal. The sessions are hosted by trained facilitators, that will not only present exciting challenges and games, but will provide debriefings to help your team relate and transfer each lesson to the work environment. What skills will my team learn? Most of our team building sessions revolve around communication, problem solving, decision making, goal setting, and positive leadership in the workplace. Our facilitators will help your team identify what skills they used during the activities, refine those skills, and help them navigate a path which leads them to using what they have learned in their workplace. Are there any prerequisites for my team to participate? No prerequisite knowledge or ability is required of your group to participate. Our team building initiatives are adaptive to a vast array of participants. We encourage all our teams to practice “challenge by choice,” and participate as much as they can. If you have any concerns, be sure to let us know when you book your event, and we can mold our presentation to your group’s specific needs. What will Virtual Team Building be like? We understand that the realities of working during COVID-19 can be challenging, and over the past year, we have developed a virtual program that can be administered via Zoom to engage your team even when we cannot all be together in person. All the same team building principles and interactions apply. We’re just participating within a big video conference call from the comfort of our personal virtual workspaces. Will my team be able to maintain physical distancing if we do in person team building? Of course! As we work our way towards a new normal it is important to continue to practice the healthy skills that got us to this point. If you elect to do in-person team building, we will ensure that everyone adheres to current CDC standards and guidelines regarding COVID-19 and the safety of all participants. Pricing In-Person Team Building Pricing Attendees 30-Minute 1-Hour 2-hour Less than 20 people $60 $100 $150 21-50 people $80 $150 $200 51-100 people $100 $175 $225 Virtual Team Building Pricing Attendees 30-Minute 1-Hour 2-hour Less than 20 people $30 $50 N/A 21-50 people $50 $75 N/A 51-100 people $75 $120 N/A Getting Started To get started follow these easy steps! 1. Fill out the Team Building Request Form 2. A Titan Recreation staff member will send an invoice 3. Pay invoice 4. Get your team ready for fun and engaging development! Contact Titan Recreation Do you have a question about the Student Recreation Center or Titan Recreation? Feel free to give us a call, send us a direct email, or contact us via social media. 800 N. State College Blvd., Fullerton, CA 92821 (657) 278-7529 titanrecreation@fullerton.edu @titanrecreation About ASI The Associated Students provides student development opportunities through leadership, volunteer, and employment experiences. In addition, the Associated Students provides campus community members with important social, cultural, and recreational opportunities, as well as, a wide range of programs and services. 800 N State College Blvd., Fullerton, 92831 (657) 278-2468 asclerical@fullerton.edu Resources Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers Associated Students, Inc. | 800 N State College Blvd., Fullerton, 92831 | California State University, Fullerton By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Accept Cookies