Skip to main content About About ASI 2020-2025 Strategic Plan ASI Staff Employment Opportunities Student Leadership Opportunities Involvement Opportunities Maps & Directions COVID-19 Updates Fees Student Government About Student Government Student Leaders Agendas & Minutes Policies, Bylaws, Resolutions, & Proposals Elections Budget & Financial Statements Programming About Programming Programming Team Upcoming Events Titan Student Union About the TSU Hours of Operation University Conference Center Titan Bowl & Billiards Woolly Mammoth Food Court Children’s Center About the Children’s Center Children’s Center Staff Virtual Resources Enrollment & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Parenting Resources Internships Children’s Center Parents & Pals (CCPAP) Services Accounting Camp Titan ASI Food Pantry Legal Help & Referrals Human Resources Information & Services ASI Executive Senate Marketing & Design Office & Locker Space Research Grants Scholarships Titan Recreation About Titan Recreation Hours Facility Reservations Member Services American Red Cross Aquatics Fitness Titan Youth Summer Camp ESports Intramural Sports Rock Wall Titan Outdoors Titan Recreation Team Building Titan Recreation Portal Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion IRA Instructionally Related Activities About About ASI 2020-2025 Strategic Plan ASI Staff Employment Opportunities Student Leadership Opportunities Involvement Opportunities Maps & Directions COVID-19 Updates Fees Student Government About Student Government Student Leaders Agendas & Minutes Policies, Bylaws, Resolutions, & Proposals Elections Budget & Financial Statements Programming About Programming Programming Team Upcoming Events Titan Student Union About the TSU Hours of Operation University Conference Center Titan Bowl & Billiards Woolly Mammoth Food Court Children’s Center About the Children’s Center Children’s Center Staff Virtual Resources Enrollment & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Parenting Resources Internships Children’s Center Parents & Pals (CCPAP) Services Accounting Camp Titan ASI Food Pantry Legal Help & Referrals Human Resources Information & Services ASI Executive Senate Marketing & Design Office & Locker Space Research Grants Scholarships Titan Recreation About Titan Recreation Hours Facility Reservations Member Services American Red Cross Aquatics Fitness Titan Youth Summer Camp ESports Intramural Sports Rock Wall Titan Outdoors Titan Recreation Team Building Titan Recreation Portal Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion IRA Instructionally Related Activities Titan Student Union About the Titan Student Union The Titan Student Union (TSU) opened in 1976 and was first expanded in 1992. In response to higher enrollment and increased demand for services, the TSU expanded again beginning in Summer of 2015. The $20 million renovation and expansion, funded entirely by cash reserves, was completed in October 2016 and added 26,000 square feet of public space and meeting rooms. The TSU is the center of campus life and serves as the primary gathering and meeting place for the university community. In addition to event space, the TSU provides study space, student art galleries, Titan Bowl & Billiards, a food court, ATM banking, and discount ticket sales. The TSU houses Associated Students Inc. (ASI), the Dean of Students, and Student Life and Leadership. On a typical academic day, more than 7,000 students visit the TSU. Titan Student Union Map Searchable Calendar of Events Life happens inside the Titan Student Union. See our calendar of events here! 26000 Square Foot Expansion 457 Pavilion Events Held Last Year 41 Years in Operation 9456 Average Visitors Per Day Hours of Operation Please view the operating hours for the Titan Student Union below. Hours are effective Saturday, May 21st – Thursday, June 30th. General Operating Hours TSU General Operating Hours Day Hours Monday - Thursday 8AM - 5PM Friday 8AM - 5PM Saturday - Sunday Closed Accounting ASI Financial Services (Beginning 2/7) Day Hours Monday - Friday 8AM - 5PM Saturday - Sunday CLOSED Food Court Food Court Day Hours Monday - Friday 8AM - 2PM (Food concept hours will vary) Saturday - Sunday CLOSED Information & Services Information & Services Day Hours Monday - Thursday 7AM - Midnight Friday 7AM - 10PM Saturday - Sunday 10AM - 10PM Titan Bowl & Billiards Titan Bowl & Billiards Day Hours Monday - Friday Closed for the summer Saturday - Sunday Closed for the summer University Conference Center University Conference Center Day Hours Monday - Friday 8AM - 5PM Saturday - Sunday CLOSED The Yum Convenience Store The Yum Convenience Store Day Hours Monday - Thursday Closed Friday Closed Saturday - Sunday Closed Starbucks Starbucks Day Hours Monday - Friday 8AM - 2PM University Conference Center The University Conference Center (UCC) features a wide variety of meeting and event venues and a professional event planning staff. The UCC can accommodate a diverse set of events with budgets ranging from large to small. The Portola Pavilion The Portola Pavilion hosts hundreds of special events every year, including large conferences, receptions, banquets, and weddings. The Pavilion features a high ceiling, carpeted flooring, high-quality lighting and sound, and covers more than 11,000 square feet and can be divided into three individual venues. The Pavilion also features the Chapman Atrium which can be used as an inviting space for pre-event check-in or receptions. Meeting Rooms The Titan Student Union (TSU) features approximately 20 conference and assembly-style meeting rooms that can comfortably accommodate 10 – 100 guests. The conference rooms are ideal for general meetings, corporate events, birthdays, receptions, and more. Gabrielino Rectangle Shape Conference Room 1,340 Square Feet 32′ x 41′ Capacity: 66 Gabrielino Room Layout Diagram Alvarado A Assembly Room 432 Square Feet 16′ x 27′ Capacity: 44 Alverado A Room Layout Diagram Alvarado B Assembly Room 412 Square Feet 15′ x 27′ Capacity: 44 Alverado B Room Layout Diagram Alvarado AB Assembly Room 850 Square Feet 31′ x 27′ Capacity: 88 Alverado AB Room Layout Diagram Ontiveros A U Shaped Conference Room 493 Square Feet 18′ x 27′ Capacity: 21 Ontiveros B U Shaped Conference Room 466 Square Feet 17′ x 27′ Capacity: 21 Ontiveros C U Shaped Conference Room 470 Square Feet 17′ x 27′ Capacity: 21 Ontiveros AB Rectangle Shape Conference Room 959 Square Feet 35 x 27′ Capacity: 42 Ontiveros BC Rectangle Shape Conference Room 936 Square Feet 34′ x 27′ Capacity: 42 Ontiveros ABC Rectangle Shape Conference Room 1,444 Square Feet 53″ x 27′ Capacity: 63 Legislative Chambers 1 U Shape Conference Room 650 Square Feet 25′ x 26′ Capacity: 18 Legislative Chambers 2 U Shape Conference Room 675 Square Feet 25′ x 27′ Capacity: 18 Legislative Chambers 1 & 2 Rectangle Shape Conference Room 1,325 Square Feet 25′ x 53′ Capacity: 36 Bradford AB U Shape Conference Room 493 Square Feet 14′ x 34′ Capacity: 28 Gilman AB U Shape Conference Room 493 Square Feet 14′ x 34′ Capacity: 28 Hetebrink AB Assembly Room 493 Square Feet 14′ x 34′ Capacity: 44 Tuffree AB Assembly Room 493 Square Feet 14′ x 34′ Capacity: 44 Presidents' Room Oval Conference Table 520 Square Feet 26′ x 20′ Capacity: 18 Stearns Rectangular Conference Table 333 Square Feet 14′ x 23′ Capacity: 16 The Becker Amphitheater The Becker Amphitheater , located outdoors east of the TSU, has an on-site stage and grass seating for hundreds. Becker is frequently used for concerts, speakers, and fairs. Titan Theater The Titan Theater features an 11′ x 13′ stage and seating for 146 guests. The theater is similar in many ways to a lecture hall, with lap desks, projection equipment, and audio capability. Titan Theater is best used for small performances, movie screenings, and guest speakers. Office Hours & Contact Information Monday - Thursday 8AM-5PM Friday 8AM-5PM Location: TSU Room 121 Phone: (657) 278-5867 Frequently Asked Questions RESERVATION PROCESS How many months in advance can I request to book a space for my meeting or event? Student organizations can book their reservation 14 months in advance of the exact event date. CSUF departments can book their reservation 13 months in advance of the exact event date. Off-campus clients can book their reservation 12 months in advance of the exact event date. How can I reserve a meeting or event space? Student organizations can reserve a space by submitting an event request to the UCC through TitanLink. CSUF departments and off-campus clients can inquire about availability and request to reserve space by calling the University Conference Center at (657) 278-5867. When is a reservation confirmed? A client will receive a confirmation email after they review, sign, and return a copy of the Facility Use Agreement to the Event Planner. How late can I submit a request to book a space for my event? Depending on the type of event, a request should be submitted no later than 10 business days prior to the event date. We strongly suggest requesting space as soon as possible, however we will do our best to accommodate late requests as we are able. When can I cancel a reservation? A reservation can be canceled at minimum 10 business days in advance of the event date, or 3 business days in advance of the meeting date. Is there a charge for canceling a reservation? The University Conference Center will make every attempt to not charge for reservation costs when reservations are cancelled according to our cancellation policy. Costs for which services have already been provided at time of cancellation request, e.g. equipment set up in reserved space, will be charged. STUDENT ORGANIZATION RESERVATION REQUESTS ON TITANLINK How can I request to reserve UCC space through TitanLink? Appropriately assigned officers can create an event from their organization’s event management page. Within the event creation process, by selecting “continue to custom fields,” the UCC can be selected among several event location options. Once selecting the UCC as the requested event location, thoroughly respond to all the following prompts to submit your request. How does the University Conference Center communicate with student organizations on TitanLink? The discussion section of your TitanLink submission can contain messages from the submission reviewers, i.e. your UCC Event Planners. The reviewers use this section to ask questions to clarify reservation details. It is important to check this section regularly after submitting your request. What does it mean when my event submission gets “denied”? When a submission is “denied” it means the request is not approved to happen as requested. A request can be denied for various reasons. There are no available meeting and event spaces during the requested times. More event dates are wanted than what was requested. The submission is lacking sufficient details and needs to be resubmitted with more complete information. How do I add more dates to my event submission? To add more dates, locate the add dates under the Time and Place section of the event request form. MEETING AND EVENT SPACES Where can I find photos of the meeting rooms? Event and meeting room layout information and diagrams can be found in the “Meeting Rooms” drop down menu above. What equipment is provided? The TSU provides furniture (tables and chairs) and audio/visual equipment including microphones, laptop, projector, screens and built-in sound. Your Event Planner will work with you to determine what equipment we can provide for your event. Is the Becker Amphitheater a reservable space? Yes, the Becker Amphitheater is a reservable space. Reference “how can I reserve a meeting or event space” under the Reservation Process section. PAYMENT INFORMATION When is payment due for an event? The payment deadline can be found on the reservation confirmation that you receive from the University Conference Center. How do I make a payment? Student organizations – reservation costs are charged to the A.S account. The account should have enough funds to cover all associated costs by the payment date or the reservation could be cancelled. CSUF departments & off-campus clients – credit/debit cards, POs, and checks are all acceptable methods of payment. Credit/debit card information can be accepted securely over the phone or in person. CATERING Where can I find the on-site approved caterers list? Contact your Event Planner for a current copy. GENERAL When can I start advertising my event? You may start marketing and advertising for your event or meeting after you receive a confirmation email for your University Conference Center reservation. Publicizing information related to your UCC reservation prior to your reservation being confirmed is prohibited. Can I provide my own equipment to play music? Yes, you can provide your own equipment (e.g. a laptop) that can interface with your own personal speakers. We cannot support any interfacing of non-UCC audio equipment with UCC mixers and/or speaker systems. Where in the TSU can I advertise for my event or meeting? The TSU Bulletin Board located in the hallway area just North of the Courtyard and South of the Amazon Locker is available to student organizations and ASI programs and services on a first come, first served basis. All posting entities, including ASI, must obtain prior approval from the office of Student Life & Leadership, indicated by a stamp on the flier itself, to post bulletins within the 8.5”x11” sign holders that are already affixed to the boards. Please respect other organizations’ and departments’ postings in this space. Can I host my event outside of TSU operating hours? Yes, events scheduled outside of TSU operating hours will require an Event Manager to be staffed for the duration of your event. Associated fees will be applied to the reservation. Who can sign the Facility Use Agreement? The Facility Use Agreement must be signed by the primary contact listed on the reservation. The person signing must acknowledge and agree to all terms within the Facility Use Agreement. Who is considered the primary contact? The primary contact is responsible for communicating and coordinating all reservation details with the UCC throughout the event planning process. The primary contact must be designated by the hosting organization to be responsible for all event details and decisions, and they must be in attendance throughout the reserved event. The primary contact is expected to take all reasonable actions, on behalf of their organization, to follow and uphold the policies and procedures outlined in the Facility Use Agreement. What are the hours of the Pub? The Pub is public space designated for individual student use until 8:00 p.m. Monday-Thursday. At 8:00 p.m., groups can use the Pub as an event space. On Fridays, the Pub is an event space at any time during open business hours. How do I rent inflatable Tuffy? Inflatable Tuffy is rented through the ASI Marketing and Design department. To complete a reservation, log into TitanLink and search “Inflatable Tuffy Request Form.” FOR MORE INFORMATION If you have further questions, contact us at tsures2@fullerton.edu or (657) 278-5867. Titan Bowl & Billiards Whether you’re looking to beat your friends at a game of pool, bowl a perfect 300 game, get a high-score on the hottest video and console games, host a special event, or just hang out with friends in the TV lounge, then Titan Bowl & Billiards (TBB) is your one stop for campus fun and excitement! TBB is located on the lower level of the Titan Student Union and students, faculty, staff, and members of local community are welcome to join in the good times. For more information, call (657) 278-2144 or stop by the TBB desk on the lower level of the TSU. Facility Rentals TBB consists of an 8 lane bowling alley, 12 Gold Crown billiards, table tennis, arcade games, and more. The lead time for reservations is at least two weeks in advance. For more information on facility pricing and more, please contact (657) 278-2144 or recgames@fullerton.edu. Prices Student Activity Prices Bowling $2.00/game & $3.00 shoe rental Billiards/Shuffleboard $4.75/hour Table Tennis $2.00/hour Foosball $2.00/hour Xbox, PS4, & Wii U $1.15/hour Faculty/Staff Activity Prices Bowling $2.75/game & $3.00 shoe rental Billiards/Shuffleboard $6.25/hour Table Tennis $2.50/hour Foosball $2.50/hour Xbox, PS4, & Wii U $4.50/hour Community Activity Prices Bowling $3.15/game & $3.00 shoe rental Billiards/Shuffleboard $8.15/hour Table Tennis $3.50/hour Foosball $3.50/hour Xbox, PS4, & Wii U $7.00/hour Tournaments & Weekly Events Free Billiards Tuesdays Enjoy free billiards play from 2:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. every Tuesday throughout the semester. 0 $1 Bowling Wednesdays Enjoy $1 bowling from 2:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. every Wednesday throughout the semester. 0 All You Can Bowl Thursdays Enjoy free bowling from 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. every Thursday throughout the semester. 0 The TSU Woolly Mammoth Thanks to a generous donation by the Gregg Family Foundation and a partnership with the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, the Titan Student Union now houses a nearly complete Woolly Mammoth skeleton. Officially named the Fully Mammoth, this fossil is viewable for free in the TSU Chapman Atrium during regular Titan Student Union business hours. Stop by to see it in person and learn more about Woolly Mammoths! The Fully Mammoth will serve as the centerpiece for a larger exhibit on fossil elephants that will highlight the collaboration between Cal State Fullerton and the County of Orange’s Cooper Center to protect and study the county’s rich fossil history. Food Court The TSU houses multiple dining options including: Baja Fresh, The Fresh Kitchen, Juice It Up!, Panda Express, Starbucks, Togo’s, Hibachi-San, Pieology, and more! Check out the Titan Deals. page for discounts and promotions. The current Food Court Hours are updated regularly. About ASI The Associated Students provides student development opportunities through leadership, volunteer, and employment experiences. In addition, the Associated Students provides campus community members with important social, cultural, and recreational opportunities, as well as, a wide range of programs and services. 800 N State College Blvd., Fullerton, 92831 (657) 278-2468 asclerical@fullerton.edu Resources Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers Associated Students, Inc. | 800 N State College Blvd., Fullerton, 92831 | California State University, Fullerton By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Accept Cookies