Skip to main content About About ASI 2020-2025 Strategic Plan ASI Staff Employment Opportunities Student Leadership Opportunities Involvement Opportunities Maps & Directions COVID-19 Updates Fees Student Government About Student Government Student Leaders Agendas & Minutes Policies, Bylaws, Resolutions, & Proposals Elections Budget & Financial Statements Programming About Programming Programming Team Upcoming Events Titan Student Union About the TSU Hours of Operation University Conference Center Titan Bowl & Billiards Woolly Mammoth Food Court Children’s Center About the Children’s Center Children’s Center Staff Virtual Resources Enrollment & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Parenting Resources Internships Children’s Center Parents & Pals (CCPAP) Services Accounting Camp Titan ASI Food Pantry Legal Help & Referrals Human Resources Information & Services ASI Executive Senate Marketing & Design Office & Locker Space Research Grants Scholarships Titan Recreation About Titan Recreation Hours Facility Reservations Member Services American Red Cross Aquatics Fitness Titan Youth Summer Camp ESports Intramural Sports Rock Wall Titan Outdoors Titan Recreation Team Building Titan Recreation Portal Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion IRA Instructionally Related Activities About About ASI 2020-2025 Strategic Plan ASI Staff Employment Opportunities Student Leadership Opportunities Involvement Opportunities Maps & Directions COVID-19 Updates Fees Student Government About Student Government Student Leaders Agendas & Minutes Policies, Bylaws, Resolutions, & Proposals Elections Budget & Financial Statements Programming About Programming Programming Team Upcoming Events Titan Student Union About the TSU Hours of Operation University Conference Center Titan Bowl & Billiards Woolly Mammoth Food Court Children’s Center About the Children’s Center Children’s Center Staff Virtual Resources Enrollment & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Parenting Resources Internships Children’s Center Parents & Pals (CCPAP) Services Accounting Camp Titan ASI Food Pantry Legal Help & Referrals Human Resources Information & Services ASI Executive Senate Marketing & Design Office & Locker Space Research Grants Scholarships Titan Recreation About Titan Recreation Hours Facility Reservations Member Services American Red Cross Aquatics Fitness Titan Youth Summer Camp ESports Intramural Sports Rock Wall Titan Outdoors Titan Recreation Team Building Titan Recreation Portal Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion IRA Instructionally Related Activities Programming Upcoming Events Want to know what’s coming up? Check out the lists of upcoming events below! Street Team Meetings ASI Street Team ASI Street Team is the main outreach and recruitment program for student leadership programs. Through monthly meetings and volunteer positions for ASI Student Programs that allows students to learn and have a better understanding of our organization and its programs. Our in person meetings will be held in TSU Ontiveros ABC. Our virtual meetings via Zoom can be joined by using the following link: https://fullerton.zoom.us/j/89358740363 Learn how you can get more involved with ASI’s official student government! For questions, please email: asipc10@fullerton.edu or asipc5@fullerton.edu Register for Street Team Meeting Dates February 15, 11:30-12:30 March 1, 11:30-12:30 March 15, 11:30-12:30 March 29, 11:30-12:30 April 12, 11:30-12:30 April 26, 11:30-12:30 Concerts @ The Becker Check out the upcoming concerts hosted by ASI. Our Concerts serve as a space for ASI to premiere a diverse set list of artists that bring the fun and the noise for the Titan community. Check out our Instagram @ASICSUF for more information about our about shows! Concert Dates: 3/9/22 @ Noon Drop the Mic Drop the Mic Check out our Drop the Mic events hosted by ASI below. Drop the Mic serves as our safe space to premiere some of the most diverse set of spoken word artists and poets for our Titan community to enjoy. You can learn more about the upcoming event and the speaker by checking out @ASICSUF on Instagram. Show Dates: 3/15/22 @2pm 4/20/22 @5pm Special Events Special Events Check out the upcoming special events hosted by ASI below. You can also learn more about the upcoming event and the speaker by checking us out on Instagram @ASICSUF. Upcoming Dates • Beyond the Conversation:Titans Talk and Paint 3/23/22 • Carnival 4/8/22 • Battle of the Bands and DJs 4/14/22 • Spring Concert 5/7/22 • All Night Study: Week of May 9th AICA Events AICA Events Check out the upcoming meetings and events hosted by the Association of Intercultural Awareness. More information about our events can viewed on our Instagram @ASICSUF Event Dates • Social Justice Week 3/14/22-3/17/22 • AICA Culture Couture 4/28/22 ASI Student Programs & Engagement ASI Student Programs & Engagement is devoted to being inclusive, innovative, and inspiring. We work to unify the campus communities and enhance the Titan experience every day because we believe the differences of our students create the Titan family. ASI’s Student Programs team puts on a wide array of different events and activities on campus each year for students to experience that help keep campus feeling fun and alive. We encourage you to come out to events, participate in activities, and get involved! We are currently accepting applications for the ASI Street Team. ASI Programming Board The ASI Programming Board covers the entertainment part of ASI programming and hosts many weekly, biweekly, and special events on campus that give students something fun to look forward to, a chance to relieve some of the stress that comes along with being in school, or just something to do while taking a break between classes. Events range from things like karaoke and open mic to film screenings and concerts and include special events around midterms and finals and even the biggest event of the year, Spring Concert. Association for InterCultural Awareness The Association for Inter-Cultural Awareness (AICA) is the part of Programming that plans events to highlight, celebrate, and educate students about culture and diversity. Through performances, showcases, festivals, and experiences that bring out a variety of culture based student organizations and campus departments, AICA gives students and the campus community the chance to come together to learn, grow, and appreciate one another. AICA also serves as a funding source for events hosted by culture based student organizations on campus. Street Team Street Team is the volunteer program of Programming and supports all of our events and activities while also giving students a place to get involved with ASI. Students interested in getting involved, helping plan and run events, learning about leadership opportunities and leadership skills, or just making new friends are encouraged to join. Street Team meetings happen each week. Concerts Our campus has the long-standing tradition of highlighting up and coming musical artist that bring a sense community to our student body. We will continue to bring high quality talent to perform their music but we will also add an interaction aspect where students will be able to interact with the band directly after the performance. Drop the Mic Drop the Mic is a spoken word open mic event that allows students to express themselves in a positive and constructive way. The ASI Student Programs team wants to make a space where students can feel safe and brave to share how they are doing through poetry. Titan Talks Titan Talks is a program that where student leaders have conversations with CSUF alumni that have unique professions, skills and knowledge that will bring an interesting new perspective to current students on many different topics. These programs will be virtual through platforms like zoom and there will be an opportunity for attendees to ask question to these speakers during the event. All Night Study This year unlike any other year, ASI Programming Board will be creating a virtual end of the year celebration for the students of Cal State Fullerton. We will bring new and unique programs for students to enjoy the end of the semester and create virtual spaces and programs that will help alleviate the stresses of Finals week. All Night Study is a tradition unlike anywhere other campus and we will continue to provide this for the students. Spring Concert The Spring Concert is the largest student ran program hosted at Cal State University Fullerton. This event highlights some of the music industry’s biggest talents like Louis the Child, Dominic Fike, Tyga and many more. Spring Concert also brings out the most popular food trucks and interactive games and rides for thousands of students to enjoy! 82 Events Held Last Semester 22 Programming Student Leaders 6500 Attendees at the 2017 Spring Concert 7300 Participants in Fall 2017 Meet the Programming Team All of the events and activities of Programming are planned and put on by students just like you. These students apply and are selected for these yearlong positions in the middle of the spring semester for the following school year. Students in these positions go through trainings starting in the summer and learn the ins and outs of planning events and activities. Berenice Vences Programming Coordinator asipc1@fullerton.edu Javid Javadikhomami AICA Diversity Chair asiaicadiversity@fullerton.edu Naomi Jost Programming Director asiprogramming2@fullerton.edu Tina Phuong Programming Coordinator asipc3@fullerton.edu Vacant Position AICA Student-at-Large asiaicasal1@fullerton.edu Cristian Sanchez Programming Coordinator Email TBA Jazmin Flores Programming Coordinator Email TBA Omar Alnuaimi AICA Vice Chair asiaicavicechair@fullerton.edu Trang Tran Programming Coordinator asipc9@fullerton.edu Vacant Position AICA Student-at-Large asiaicasal2@fullerton.edu Isabella Galvan AICA Chair aica@fullerton.edu Jordan Murphy Programming Director asiprogramming1@fullerton.edu Samantha Tulabing Programming Coordinator Email TBA Trinity Escorpiso Programming Coordinator asipc5@fullerton.edu Vacant Position AICA Student-at-Large asiaicasal3@fullerton.edu Jacob Fry Programming Coordinator asipc4@fullerton.edu Michael Butorac Programming Coordinator Email TBA Timothy Harris Programming Coordinator asipc2@fullerton.edu Vacant Position AICA Events Chair asiaicaevents@fullerton.edu Contact Programming Have questions or looking for more information? Feel free to give us a call, send us an email. 800 N. State College Blvd., Fullerton, CA 92831 (657) 278-7736 asilpdassistant@fullerton.edu About ASI The Associated Students provides student development opportunities through leadership, volunteer, and employment experiences. In addition, the Associated Students provides campus community members with important social, cultural, and recreational opportunities, as well as, a wide range of programs and services. 800 N State College Blvd., Fullerton, 92831 (657) 278-2468 asclerical@fullerton.edu Resources Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers Associated Students, Inc. | 800 N State College Blvd., Fullerton, 92831 | California State University, Fullerton By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Accept Cookies