Skip to main content About About ASI 2020-2025 Strategic Plan ASI Staff Employment Opportunities Student Leadership Opportunities Involvement Opportunities Maps & Directions COVID-19 Updates Fees Student Government About Student Government Student Leaders Agendas & Minutes Policies, Bylaws, Resolutions, & Proposals Elections Budget & Financial Statements Programming About Programming Programming Team Upcoming Events Titan Student Union About the TSU Hours of Operation University Conference Center Titan Bowl & Billiards Woolly Mammoth Food Court Children’s Center About the Children’s Center Children’s Center Staff Virtual Resources Enrollment & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Parenting Resources Internships Children’s Center Parents & Pals (CCPAP) Services Accounting Camp Titan ASI Food Pantry Legal Help & Referrals Human Resources Information & Services ASI Executive Senate Marketing & Design Office & Locker Space Research Grants Scholarships Titan Recreation About Titan Recreation Hours Facility Reservations Member Services American Red Cross Aquatics Fitness Titan Youth Summer Camp ESports Intramural Sports Rock Wall Titan Outdoors Titan Recreation Team Building Titan Recreation Portal Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion IRA Instructionally Related Activities About About ASI 2020-2025 Strategic Plan ASI Staff Employment Opportunities Student Leadership Opportunities Involvement Opportunities Maps & Directions COVID-19 Updates Fees Student Government About Student Government Student Leaders Agendas & Minutes Policies, Bylaws, Resolutions, & Proposals Elections Budget & Financial Statements Programming About Programming Programming Team Upcoming Events Titan Student Union About the TSU Hours of Operation University Conference Center Titan Bowl & Billiards Woolly Mammoth Food Court Children’s Center About the Children’s Center Children’s Center Staff Virtual Resources Enrollment & Fees Frequently Asked Questions Parenting Resources Internships Children’s Center Parents & Pals (CCPAP) Services Accounting Camp Titan ASI Food Pantry Legal Help & Referrals Human Resources Information & Services ASI Executive Senate Marketing & Design Office & Locker Space Research Grants Scholarships Titan Recreation About Titan Recreation Hours Facility Reservations Member Services American Red Cross Aquatics Fitness Titan Youth Summer Camp ESports Intramural Sports Rock Wall Titan Outdoors Titan Recreation Team Building Titan Recreation Portal Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion IRA Instructionally Related Activities Services Accounting The ASI Accounting office provides fiscal management and oversight of ASI’s financial records as well as providing assistance to numerous ASI funded student organizations. For more information call (657) 278-2404. Current Budget ASI Budget 2021-22 Financial Statements ASI Audited Financial Statements 2020-2021 ASI Audited Financial Statements 2019-2020 ASI Audited Financial Statements 2018-2019 Associated Students Children’s Center Financial Statements & Supplementary Information Tax Returns Associated Students Inc. Tax Return (990) 2019-2020 Associated Students Inc. Tax Return (990) 2019-2020 Associated Students Inc. Tax Return (990) 2018-2019 Associated Students Inc. Tax Return (990-T) 2018-2019 Associated Students, Inc. Tax Return 2017-2018 Forms ASI/TSC Check Request W-9 Form ASI/TSC Purchase Order Request Form Certification Form ASI Bid Form ASI Vendor Data Record Form Line Item Transfer Form Eventbrite Requests To request an Eventbrite page, please submit the Fundraising Form located on Titan Link (Student Life & Leadership). Instructions: Go to the following page: fullerton.campuslabs.com/engage Login to your Titan Link Under the Forms tab locate the “Clubs & Orgs: Fundraising Form 2020-2021” The form will give you an option to add Eventbrite to your request. For more information about the form, please watch the following video on YouTube: TitanLink Fundraising Form Once the form has been submitted, the Student Life & Leadership department will review your submission. If you have any questions, please contact Student Life and Leadership at studentlife@fullerton.edu Student Organization Agency Accounts Agency Account Instructions Agency Account Online Access Agency Accounts Form Agency Check Requests and Deposit Instructions Agency Account Check Request Agency Account Deposit Form Reports Student Club Reports Manager/Director Reports (ASI/TSC/IRA) Instructions for Manager/Director Reports Camp Titan Camp Titan is a summer camp program operated by the Associated Students, Inc. of Cal State Fullerton. The camp is a one week long residential program provided at no cost to children from disadvantaged and/or low income backgrounds from the Orange County and surrounding area. Camp Titan is staffed by Cal State Fullerton students that volunteer their time to complete training and serve as counselors for the week of camp. The program is also staffed and overseen by professional staff administrators from the Associated Students, Inc. at Cal State Fullerton. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us at ctitan@fullerton.edu. Camper Application & Family Letter 2022 Family Letter 2022 Camp Titan Application Counselor Application Camp Titan 2022 Counselor Application Program Staff Application Camp Titan 2022 Program Staff Application ASI Food Pantry Addressing food insecurity among college students has been a CSU system-wide effort for a number of years. The Pantry is a new and permanent program to the CSUF campus that serves to distribute foods and support students facing food insecurity. The Pantry’s inventory rotates between various food items; typically offering a variety of non-perishable foods, canned goods, and fresh produce. Along with The Pantry’s services, the program works with Tuffy’s Basic Needs to provide additional resources for support around other various areas of basic needs insecurity and related issues. There are no requirements or qualifications for students to use this service and scheduling an appointment is quick and easy! If there are any questions, please email asifoodpantry@fullerton.edu or call us at (657) 278-8756. Sign Up for Food Pantry Services We are excited to share that we have launched our food pantry program on its own platform, PantrySoft.The very first thing that you will need to do is register on the PantrySoft site. Below are instructions on how to move through the registration. Please make sure to review the attachment before beginning your registration! Once you have registered, you will then be able to make an appointment for our upcoming distribution dates. Instructions – Registration Online The registration questions helps us make an important turn in our program. As we continue to work with our food providers and those wishing to host drives for our program, we hope to effectively identify foods and items that meet the needs of the students accessing this resource. The current appointment availability will be visible whenever you log in. You will have the ability to cancel or reschedule your appointment directly through the website. Students can schedule up to one appointment per week to visit The Pantry. Any enrolled CSUF student can visit The Pantry, regardless of financial status, class level, residency, or enrolled unit amount. Location and Hours of Operation The ASI Food Pantry is located at the west side of the main floor of the Titan Student Union near the large mammoth statue. Summer 2022 Monday: 1PM – 4:30PM Tuesday: 12PM-4:30PM Wednesday: 12PM-4:30PM Thursday: 9AM-4:30PM Friday: 9AM-1PM Saturday-Sunday: Closed Pantry Closures: Inventory Closure (Monday, May 23rd) Memorial Day (Monday, May 30th) Independence Day (Monday, July 4th) Donations to the ASI Food Pantry Individual donations to the The Pantry are greatly appreciated. Please view our donation procedure and wishlist sheet for further information. Pantry Donation Information and Wishlist To make a donation online, please visit the website below. Donate to The Pantry If you prefer to mail in a check, below is our campus gift form with the program name already filled in. The form includes the mailing address. Additionally, campus members can sign up for payroll deduction using the form below. CSUF Gift Form – AS Food Pantry Payroll Deduction Form Additional Resources CalFresh Program California Women, Infants, & Children (WIC) Program California Food Assistance Program USDA Nutrition Programs Tuffy’s Basic Needs Services @CSUF Orange County Food Pantry Locator Los Angeles County Food Pantry Locator Legal Help & Referrals Sometimes students face situations where they feel they need professional legal advice. These situations could include matters related to various areas of law such as family, juvenile, guardianship, criminal, civil appellate, civil litigation, insurance, personal injury, labor, medical, probate, real estate, business, collections, bankruptcy, landlord/tenant, immigration, social security and employment, among others. If you find yourself needing advice, please visit the California State Bar Association website to explore resources available. Human Resources The Human Resources department is responsible for the centralized hiring for all Associated Students, CSUF, Inc. employees. If you are interested in employment with ASI or want to learn more about the processes and benefits associated with your current ASI position, then the Human Resources department is the place to visit. Current ASI position openings can be found in the Employment Opportunities section in the About tab. For more contact (657) 278-7068 or visit TSU-227. Equal Opportunity Employment Statement The Associated Students, CSUF, Inc. is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, national origin, age, protected veteran or disabled status, or genetic information. Student Employee Eligibility The following are requirements to be eligible for student employment: Current student at CSUF and is enrolled/registered (fees paid) in a current regular semester as a new or continuing student. Student who has completed the prior semester (has not graduated), or who is registered for the subsequent semester. In good academic standing (not on academic probation, continued probation, academic dismissal). Student employment is less formal and more temporary in nature than professional staff employment. A student’s employment may end at any time for the following reasons: unsatisfactory evaluation, serious Misconduct, failure to report to work without prior notice, position abolishment, voluntary resignation, budget limitations, workload shifts, and breaching confidentiality contract. All student employment is reevaluated at the beginning of each semester. CSUF Career Center Power up your resume with VMOCK on the CSUF Career Center page . HR Forms Student Personnel Action Form (PAF) Staff Personnel Action Form (PAF) Recruiting Request Form Training Supervisor Training Benefits REACH – Employee Assistance Program Information & Services Information & Services is the Titan Student Union’s answer center. Trained attendants help hundreds of customers each week in navigating the campus, finding classrooms and offices, learning details about upcoming sporting and special events, and other related inquires. Information & Services is also equipped with resource materials for Greater North Orange County. Attendants have access to telephone directories, the Thomas Guide, and Internet access to provide quick-referrals and to answer extensive customer inquiries. Discount Tickets One of the most popular features of Information & Services is the area’s discount ticket sales program. Available throughout the year, individuals can purchase admission tickets to local amusement parks, movie theatres, seasonal events, dinner theaters and shows, fine arts programs, and other activities. Discounts available through the Information and Services Desk range from 10 to 50 percent below comparable, “at-the-door” prices. For more information, please call (657) 278-2468. Amusement Attractions Aquarium of the Pacific Adults – $29.95 | Gate price – $36.95 Children (ages 3-11) – $21.95 | Gate price – $26.95 *Convenient parking available for $8 with Aquarium validation Purchase tickets to the Aquarium of the Pacific. Catalina Express (Round Trip) Adults (ages 12+) – $67.00 | Gate price – $77.00 Excludes the travel dates of: May 28 – 30, July 1 – 7, and September 3 – 5, 2022 Expires 12/31/22 Universal Studios (1-Day Ticket) All Ages – $94.00-119.00 | Gate price – $129.00 Price Depends on date reserved. Must reserve date in advance. Copy and paste ushtix.com/csuf into your browser. Universal Studios CA Neighbor Pass All Ages – $129.00 | Gate price – $144.00 CSUF Staff/Faculty/Students can purchase their Universal Studios Tickets online by copying and pasting ushtix.com/csuf into a browser. Blackout dates apply. Expires 1/31/2020 Movie Tickets AMC Theatres (Unrestricted) $11.50 | Regular price – $12.49 Not valid for online redemption. Valid at any AMC Theatres location in the United States only. Subject to surcharge for 3D, premium large screen Format (e.g., IMAX, AMC Prime), alternative content, dine-in-theatres, film festivals, special theatrical presentations and premium services; location surcharges may also apply at select locations, including Disney and Universal properties operated by AMC. AMC reserves the right to change these terms and conditions without notice, including changes and additions to surcharges fees, restrictions or exclusions. Edward’s/Regal Premiere Cinemas $10.50 | Regular price – $12.00 Not valid for special events, private screenings, or Online ticket purchases. Surcharges apply to all IMAX, RPX, 3D, and 4DX films. Other surcharges may apply At Premium or Luxury/Recliner seating locations. Regal EntertainmentGroup reserves the right to change or add surcharges without notice. Tickets will not be replaced if lost or stolen, are non-refundable, and have not expiration date. More Great Savings See’s Candies (One Pound Gift Certificates) $18.75 | Retail price – $22.50 Drop-In Art Workshops ASI proudly presents the Grand Stair Studio Drop-In Art Workshops! We offer various arts and crafts activities to CSUF students with the intention of relaxing and unwinding. Check out our calendar to see the full list of classes for the upcoming semester. Feel free to drop on by during your free time! Materials and supplies are provided, free of charge. Are you part of a club that would like to collaborate on an educational workshop? Feel free to apply to be a part of our Spring 2020 workshops. Instructors Madison Sara Vivian January Workshops Back to School Theme January Workshops Date Workshop Name Time December Workshops Late Night Paint Night Late Night Paint Night is a tradition for the Grand Stair Studio. This event, much bigger than the usual drop-in art workshop, encourages participants to bring along friends for a night of chatting and painting. Food and refreshments are provided for general enjoyment. As always, all painting materials and supplies are included as well! Late Night Paint Night Schedule You can check out our previous events by watching our recap video. Calling All Artists – Student Art Show View this year’s submissions and winners here Submission Guidelines To participate, please fill out the Submission Form Submission Period: November 16 – December 11, 2020 Virtual Artwork Showcase: December 14 –January 29, 2021 Art Show Guidelines Must be a current CSUF Student (any major) One entry per student Artwork must be your own original design and concept, created independently, and completed in the last three years. All media is accepted including oil, pastel, watercolor, graphite, sculpture, etc. Student must provide a short Bio or Artist Statement (less than 250 words) Must upload unique artwork and by digital file only (TIFF, JPG, PNG) Submission will only be accepted digitally. ASI Executive Senate The purpose of the Executive Senate is to provide a line of communication between ASI and the Funded/Funding Councils. Executive Senate trains leaders on ASI financial policies, procedures, and leadership. This is to ensure ASI is kept informed about the opinions of other student leaders regarding issues, finances, and activities of the Funded/Funding Councils. Executive Senate should be a resource for the Funded/Funding Councils, assisting them in their activities, and a means to encourage cooperation and collaboration among the Funded/Funding Councils. ASI Executive Senate is managed by the ASI Student Government Office. Please connect with Asha Nettles, Director of Student Government at anettles@fullerton.edu if there are questions regarding funding. Allocation Information Utilize this form to request funding from your respective funding council. Please note that councils require that member organizations be recognized before requesting funding. Please make sure to connect with your council leadership team prior to submitting your request if there are any questions. Allocation Request Form Agendas & Minutes Utilize this form to submit the agendas and minutes from the funding and funded council minutes. Please remember to save your documents in PDF format. ASI Executive Senate Agenda & Minutes Submission Form Forms and Resources ASI Check Request Form Guide Sheet: Completing an ASI Check Request Guide Sheet: Invoices and Contracts over $5,000 Executive Senate Meetings Forms and Resources Executive Senate Travel Form COVID Travel Acknowledgement CSUF Release of Liability Travel Delegate Contract and Travel Waiver Marketing & Design The Marketing, Communications, & Design (MCD) department is responsible for the centralized marketing, advertising, and public relations efforts for Associated Students Inc., CSUF, including ASI programming and the Titan Student Centers. In addition, ASI MCD offers advertising services for all clubs and organizations on campus which includes advertising space on LCDs and electronic message boards. ASI Marketing Request Forms Marketing Request Form This form should be used for any projects requiring graphic design for digital and/or traditional print media as well as social media. Photo & Video Request Form Use this form to request or schedule our photographic or audio/video services (i.e, website portraits, event coverage, promotional videos) Promo Item & Apparel Request Form Use this form to order promotional items (t-shirts, pens, sun glasses, lanyards, etc.) Website Request Form Use this form to request edits to your portion of the ASI website. ASI Personnel Material Request Form This form is used to request name tags, ADA door nameplates, and business cards. Campus Clubs & Organizations Marketing Request Forms Coming Soon Office & Locker Space Each semester the Titan Student Union offers office space and locker space services for recognized student clubs/organizations. See below for more information. *Due to operations and ASI staffing needs, the office space program has been suspended. Office Space Each semester the Titan Student Union allocates office space to clubs and organizations recognized by Student Life and Leadership. Applications for office space come out at around the beginning/middle of every semester for space available in the following semester. Offices can give clubs and organizations space to plan events and conduct small meetings. The offices are all located on the second floor of the TSU. The program is monitored by the Titan Student Union Operations department. For more information on applying for office space, please visit the University Conference Center in TSU 121 or call (657) 278-5867. Locker Space Each semester the Titan Student Union allocates locker space to recognized clubs and organizations. Lockers are allocated on a first come, first serve basis and may be requested beginning at 8am on the first Monday (or first weekday, if Monday is a holiday) of classes each semester by the club president or treasurer. To request a locker or get more information, please visit the TSU Upstairs Desk in TSU 202 or call (657) 278-7734. Research Grants Each year the Associated Students Inc., CSUF offers grants for student research. ASI Student Research Grants are available to CSUF graduate and undergraduate students, from all fields of study, involved in supervised research. The application process begins during the Fall semester and the recipients of the grant are notified by the end of the Fall semester. The program is monitored by the Student Government Office. For more information on applying for a research grant, please review the application information BEFORE beginning the online application. ASI Research Grants 2021-2022 Information Sheet Research Abstract Template Expenditure Pages Template The ASI Student Research Grant Application is available now and the application deadline is October 29, 2021 at 5:00 PM. Frequently Asked Questions If you should have further questions about the ASI Research Grant application, please contact Asha Nettles at anettles@fullerton.edu. How much money can I request? There is a $2,500 limit on awards. ASI Student Research Grants are awarded in increments of $50. For example, is the cost for your research is $125.89, you can request either $100 or $150. When is the application deadline and where do I submit the application? Applications are due October 29, 2021 at 5:00 PM. The application link is listed above. There are no exceptions. Can I request funding for research being conducted in the Fall or Summer? Grants are for research being conducted in the Spring 2022 semester only. Retroactive funding is not allowed. Does my research have to be supervised? Yes. Your research during the Spring 2022 must be supervised and the application process will require the signature of your Faculty Advisor as an acknowledgment after submitting your application. What are the eligibility requirements to apply? Aside from completing and submitting the application by the deadline, our office will need to verify the following for each applicant: Enrollment for the Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 semesters as degree-seeking CSUF students. Cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher and have at least a 2.0 GPA for the Fall 2021 semester. Applicants who received research grant funding last year must have submitted a required ASI Student Research Grant Compliance Report. For the Expenditure Pages Section of the application, do I need to provide price information? No. For the Expenditure Pages, only include the information asked for in the application. What types of requests does ASI fund? The ASI funds the following types of requests: Non-consumable items (items with a shelf life of more than one year). Non-consumables need to be directly relevant to the research and not presently available through the university. Consumable Items (items with a short shelf life or that are used just once). Postage for interviews and surveys not to exceed $100. Study-Site Travel. The study site must be at least a minimum of 100 miles away from campus and within the USA. Sites must be specifically listed on the Expenditure Page(s) with the amount of miles from campus. Mileage is reimbursable at the rate of $0.58 per mile. What does the ASI not fund? The ASI does not fund the following: The costs of printing a thesis The costs for telephone calls The costs for lodging in a private/rental home The costs for conference travel, including registration, lodging, etc. The costs for research/lab assistant wages If I am doing a focus group or having individuals complete a survey, can I ask for funding for incentives? Yes. You can request funding for incentives. Cash incentives are NOT fundable. Does my letter of recommendation have to be sealed and on department letterhead? The letter of recommendation must be on department letterhead but it doesn’t need to be sealed as it will be uploaded as an attachment in the online application. What if I am part of a group conducting a research project and the group would like to request funding? In the case of group projects, the student can submit an application for their own part of the research. What if I am working on two different research projects in the Spring 2022? Can I apply for funding for each project? Yes. If you will be working on two different research projects during the Spring 2022, you can apply for funding for each project. You must submit a separate application for each project. If awarded, when will the funds be disbursed? If awarded, the funds will be disbursed in the Spring 2022 semester. The check will be mailed to the address provided on the application. When will I be notified if I was awarded or not? You will be notified via email to the address listed on your application at the end of the Fall semester (most likely around Finals Week). Scholarships The scholarships awarded by Associated Students, Inc. (ASI) are not restricted to any particular major or field of study. ASI is a non-profit service organization, that places emphasis on campus and community involvement. Each scholarship has specific criteria, please read each description for complete information. If you have any questions, please call (657) 278-3295 or email asischolarships@fullerton.edu. Spring 2022 Scholarships Spring 2022 scholarship applications are now closed. Scholarships will open again in Fall 2022. Adult Re-entry Scholarship Amount: $1,000 Open to: Continuing CSUF adult re-entry undergraduate, graduate, and credential program students who were away from school for at least four consecutive years. Criteria: 2.8 CSUF Cumulative GPA Enrolled in 6 units Community and/or campus involvement Scholastic and/or personal achievement Application Questions (no more than 600 words each) : 1) What motivated you to pursue higher education, and what, if any, reservations did you have about returning to an education institution as an adult re-entry student? 2) How many years were you away from a formal educational institution, and how has your experience been as a re-entry student? 3) Talk about how you contributed to your community and/or campus, how your involvement has benefited you and include the dates of time active. 4) State your academic or personal achievements and how these achievements have helped achieve your future career goals and benefited you. Spring 2022 scholarships are now closed. Scholarship applications will open again in Fall 2022. Carol Burke Memorial Scholarship Amount: $1,000 Open to: Continuing CSUF full-time undergraduate, graduate and credential students Criteria: 2.8 Cumulative GPA Participation in a recognized on-campus sports club Intramurals, or NCAA team Undergraduate and credential students must be enrolled in a minimum of 12 units, Graduate students must be enrolled in a minimum of 8 units Application Questions (no more than 600 words each): 1) State your academic or personal achievements and how these achievements have helped achieve your future career goals and benefited you. 2) Talk about how you contributed to your community and/or campus, how your involvement has benefited you and include the dates of time active. 3) Prepare a written statement describing your athletic, personal or academic achievements, and how these achievements have helped you achieve your future career goals. 4) Describe your involvement in athletics and how it has helped you in your academic endeavors and establishing future goals. Spring 2022 scholarships are now closed. Scholarship applications will open again in Fall 2022. Graduate Student Scholarship Amount: $1,000 Open to: Continuing CSUF full-time undergraduate, graduate and credential students Criteria: 3.0 CSUF Cumulative GPA Enrolled in 8 units Community and/or campus involvement Scholastic and/or personal achievement Prospective postgraduate goals Application Questions (no more than 600 words each): 1) Explain how your graduate education experience compares to you undergraduate experience, and how you would encourage undergraduates to pursue a graduate degree 2) Talk about how you contributed to your community and/or campus, how your involvement has benefited you and include the dates of time active 3) State your academic or personal achievements and how these achievements have helped achieve your future career goals and benefited you. 4) Describe your involvement in athletics and how it has helped you in your academic endeavors and establishing future goals. Spring 2022 scholarships are now closed. Scholarship applications will open again in Fall 2022. Virginia McGarvey Memorial Scholarship Amount: $1,000 Open to: Continuing CSUF full-time undergraduate, graduate and credential students Criteria: 2.8 CSUF Cumulative GPA Community and/or campus involvement Scholastic and/or personal achievement Undergraduate and credential students must be enrolled in a minimum of 12 units, Graduate students must be enrolled in a minimum of 8 units Application Questions (no more than 600 words each): 1) Prepare a written statement describing how participation in your community and/or campus involvement has enhanced your college experience. 2) Describe how your community or campus involvement has enhanced your college experience, and what inspired you to get involved. 3) Talk about how you contributed to your community and/or campus, how your involvement has benefited you and include the dates of time active 4) State your college academic or personal achievements, and how these achievements have helped achieve your future career goals. Spring 2022 scholarships are now closed. Scholarship applications will open again in Fall 2022. Harvey A. McKee Distinguish Student Leadership Amount: $1,000 Open to: Continuing CSUF full-time undergraduate, graduate and credential students Criteria: 2.5 CSUF Cumulative GPA Leadership experience in a CSUF club or organization Undergraduates and credential students must be enrolled in a minimum of 12 units, graduate students must be enrolled in a minimum of 8 units Application Questions (no more than 600 words each): 1) Describe your experiences and accomplishments as a student leader 2) Talk about how you contributed to your community and/or campus, how your involvement has benefited you and include the dates of time active 3) State your academic or personal achievements and how these achievements have helped achieve your future career goals and benefited you 4) How will you ensure that the legacy you leave behind in your organization(s) will continue once you have resigned your leadership position(s)? Spring 2022 scholarships are now closed. Scholarship applications will open again in Fall 2022. Richard Milhous Nixon Memorial Scholarship Amount: $1,000 Open to: Continuing CSUF full-time undergraduate, graduate and credential students Criteria: 2.5 CSUF Cumulative GPA Campus and/or community leadership experience, Undergraduate and credential students to be enrolled in a minimum of 12 units, graduate students must be enrolled in a minimum of 8 units Application Questions (no more than 600 words each): 1) Describe how your community or campus involvement has enhanced your college experience, and what inspired you to get involved. 2) Talk about how you contributed to your community and/or campus, how your involvement has benefited you and include the dates of time active 3) State your academic or personal achievements and how these achievements have helped achieve your future career goals and benefited you 4) Prepare a written statement about a person who has been an inspiration to you and how they affected your life. Spring 2022 scholarships are now closed. Scholarship applications will open again in Fall 2022. Student-Parent Scholarship Amount: $1,000 Open to: Continuing CSUF full-time undergraduate, graduate and credential students who are parents of one or more dependent children. Criteria: 2.5 CSUF Cumulative GPA Enrolled in 8 units Must be a student parent Community and/or campus involvement Scholastic and/or personal achievement Application Questions (no more than 600 words each): 1) State your academic or personal achievements and how these achievements have helped achieve your future career goals. 2) Talk about how you contributed to your community and/or campus, how your involvement has benefited you and include the dates of time active 3) Describe the challenges you face as a student parent Spring 2022 scholarships are now closed. Scholarship applications will open again in Fall 2022. Associated Students Inc., CSUF & Titan Shops Book Loan Scholarship Program Amount: $250 voucher towards books Open to: Continuing CSUF full-time undergraduate, graduate and credential students Criteria: 2.5 CSUF Cumulative GPA Community and/or campus involvement Scholastic and/or personal achievement Undergraduate and credential students must be enrolled in a minimum of 12 units, Graduate students must be enrolled in a minimum of 8 units Application Questions (no more than 600 words each): Name a book that has deeply impacted you and explain why? Talk about how you contributed to your community and/or campus, how your involvement has benefited you and include the dates of time active State your college academic or personal achievements, and how these achievements have helped achieve your future career goals. Spring 2022 scholarships are now closed. Scholarship applications will open again in Fall 2022. Formerly Incarcerated Students Scholarship Amount: $1,000 Open to: Formerly incarcerated students who have attended Cal State Fullerton for a minimum of one semester Criteria: 2.5 CUSF Cumulative GPA Must be formerly incarcerated Must be enrolled in a minimum of 8 units Application Questions (no more than 600 words each): 1) What motivated you to pursue higher education, and what, if any, reservations did you have about pursuing a higher education? 2) What are the lessons you have learned from your incarceration experience, and how do they enhance your capacity for community engagement and community leadership? 3) State your academic or personal achievements. 4) Talk about how you contributed to your community and/or campus, how your involvement has benefited you and include the dates of time active. Spring 2022 scholarships are now closed. Scholarship applications will open again in Fall 2022. Titan Dreamers Scholarship Amount: $1,000 Open to: Any AB 540 students who have attended Cal State Fullerton for a minimum of one semester Criteria: 2.5 CSUF Cumulative GPA Must be an AB 540 student Must be enrolled in a minimum of 6 units Community and/ or campus involvement (extracurricular activities and achievements will be considered) Application Questions (no more than 600 words each): 1) Describe how your community or campus involvement has enhanced your college experience, and what inspired you to get involved. 2) Talk about how you contributed to your community and/or campus, how your involvement has benefited you and include the dates of time active. 3) State your academic or personal achievements and how these achievements have helped achieve your future career goals and benefited you. 4) Describe the world you live in and tell us how your background has shaped who you are Spring 2022 scholarships are now closed. Scholarship applications will open again in Fall 2022. International Students Scholarship Amount: $1,000 Open to: Any AB 540 students who have attended Cal State Fullerton for a minimum of one semester Criteria: 2.5 CSUF Cumulative GPA Must be an international student Undergraduate and credential students must be enrolled in a minimum of 12 units, Graduate students must be enrolled in a minimum of 8 units Application Questions (no more than 600 words each): 1) What motivated you to pursue higher education here at CSUF? 2) Briefly explain how your education and/ or achievements have helped you achieve your future goals. 3) Talk about how you contributed to your community and/or campus, how your involvement has benefited you and include the dates of time active. 4) Describe the challenges you face as an international student. Spring 2022 scholarships are now closed. Scholarship applications will open again in Fall 2022. About ASI The Associated Students provides student development opportunities through leadership, volunteer, and employment experiences. In addition, the Associated Students provides campus community members with important social, cultural, and recreational opportunities, as well as, a wide range of programs and services. 800 N State College Blvd., Fullerton, 92831 (657) 278-2468 asclerical@fullerton.edu Resources Adobe Reader Microsoft Viewers Associated Students, Inc. | 800 N State College Blvd., Fullerton, 92831 | California State University, Fullerton By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Accept Cookies