arrow grid linear view icon Jump to main navigation Jump to main content The College of Arts Sciences Search Academics Undergraduate Study Minors Summer Travel Grant FAQs Undergraduate Honors Graduate Study M.A. in Asian Studies M.A/Ph.D. in Asian Literature, Religion, and Culture Courses Faculty Office Hours Organizational Meetings Summer/Winter Offerings Area Programs People Department Faculty Emeritus & Retired Faculty Current Graduate Students Teaching Assistants Language Study Language Offerings Language Placement and Testing About Us Land Acknowledgement Statement Department Staff & Contacts Employment Opportunities Selden Memorial Translation Prize Other Campus Resources Department of Asian Studies Congratulations Class of 2022! 27th AATK (American Association of Teachers of Korean) conference New and Highlighted Courses for Fall 2022 Asian Studies alum wins Emmy for journalism work Ph.D. Alumnus Awarded ACLS Fellowship New Global Asia Studies minor expands study options for undergrads University Land Acknowledgement Statement Four A&S faculty honored with endowed professorships Book: Thai poet uses Buddhist principles to “re-enchant” the modern world Raven Schwam-Curtis: 'All of my classes have challenged me to think deeply' Islam and Asia: A History. A Chats in the Stacks book talk with Chiara Formichi Prev Next News 27th AATK (American Association of Teachers of Korean) conference First cohort of A&S Nexus Scholars chosen for summer research positions View all news Events View all events Upcoming events Pick a Destination Faculty Profiles Languages Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Current Course Listings Buddhist Liturgical Manuscripts from Medieval China Please join us for the Society for Buddhist Studies final lecture for Spring 2022 on Friday, May 20, 2022 at 12pm in room 374 Rockefeller Hall. Enroll in Asian Studies Summer Sessions 2022 Courses A list of courses being offered by Asian Studies during the Summer 2022 can be found on our web site at Academics. Online enrollment begins March 15, 2022. The 2022 Kyoko Selden Memorial Translation Prize in Japanese Literature, Thought, and Society With gratitude to our many generous donors and all previous participants, The Department of Asian Studies at Cornell University wishes to announce the eighth and final Kyoko Selden Memorial Prize in Japanese Literature, Thought, and Society. The deadline for submissions for this year’s competition is August 1, 2022. Become an Asian Studies Major Apply to A&S See the Campus Visit A&S Support the Department Give to Asian Studies The College of Arts & Sciences Faculty 350 Rockefeller Hall, Ithaca, New York 14853 asianstudiesdept@cornell.edu • 607-255-5095 ©2022 Cornell University COVID-19 & Reactivation Planning If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.