Skip to content Cornell University Cornell University Library My account Search site and Catalog Search Filter Search Library Resources This site Search Close Libraries and Hours Ask a Librarian Kroch Library Asia Collections Library hours statusOpen until 9pm - Full Hours / Contact us Search Filter Search Library Resources This site Search Main Navigation Home About Staff Profiles Kroch Library Hours Directions Student Employment History of Kroch Library Collections East Asia (Wason) Southeast Asia (Echols) South Asia Middle East & Islamic Studies Use the Library Resources Databases Recommended Books Book Chapters Library/Subject Guides Other Resources Services Circulation Services Laptop & Equipment Loans Borrow Direct Interlibrary Loan Lockers Help for International Students Events The Asia Collections of Cornell University Library include the Charles W. Wason Collection on East Asia, the South Asia Collection, and the John M. Echols Collection on Southeast Asia. The collections also cover Asian American studies and Islam in Asia materials. Cornell is widely regarded as having one of the largest and most significant collections of Asian historical and literary materials in North America. Housed in Kroch Library, the Asia Collections include reference books, periodicals, newspapers, microfilms and fiche, electronic resources, as well as two levels of book stacks. East Asia (Wason) Southeast Asia (Echols) South Asia Middle East & Islam Events See all events >> New Books No escape : the true story of China's genocide of the Uyghurs Tǣčhiu tǣ čhǣo = Chaozhou Phūkhao namtā Sām klœ̄ . ʻaphinihān Lūang Phō̜ Thūat The elephant and the dragon in contempory life sciences : a call for decolonising global governance See all Kroch Asia new books >> Featured Collection Karma Collection Explore over 4,000 primary items in Kroch Asia’s Rare Materials Archive, including photographs, manuscripts, and periodicals. Digital Exhibitions Films, Mills, and Poets: Mid-Century Bombay Films, Mills, and Poets: Mid-Century Bombay was an exhibit that was shown at the Carl A. Kroch Library's Asia Collections between September and November 2017, in conjunction with 'The Archive and the City of Bombay', a symposium held September 15. This online version highlights the major areas of the physical exhibit, while also showing a selection of the objects from the collection that were on display. Explore Story/Lines: Visual Narratives in Japanese Pop Culture Manga—Japanese comic books—are an international phenomenon, capturing the imagination of young people and shaping youth culture around the globe. Where did manga come from, what genres and forms do they take, what subjects do they focus on, and what exactly defines manga? This exhibition explores these and other issues. Explore Bridging Worlds: Buddhist Words and Works This exhibit celebrates the visit of His Holiness the Dalai Lama to Ithaca in October, 2007. Explore Building a Collection: Giok Po Oey and the John M. Echols Collection Beginning with his hire in 1957, Giok Po Oey (1922-2010) worked tirelessly to build a world-class library collection of publications from and about Southeast Asia. Giok Po worked closely with the founders of Cornell’s Southeast Asia Program to build up this magnificent treasure known around the world as the John M. Echols Collection on Southeast Asia. Explore Previous Next Libraries and Hours | Ask a Librarian Home About Collections Use the Library Resources Services Events CONTACT Kroch Library Asia Collections 180 Kroch Library Ithaca, NY 14853 Kroch Library Asia Collections Library Location Facebook Instagram Twitter Phone: 607-255-8199 Email: asiaref@cornell.edu ©2022 Cornell University Library, Ithaca, NY 14853 | 607-255-4144 | Privacy | Web Accessibility Assistance | Staff Login FEEDBACK GIVE TO THE LIBRARY