Ask the Pack With a community of more than 250,000, Ask the Pack will connect you with the best person to help you with advice and introductions. Ask A Question Now You ask. They answer. Pack pros love helping students and alumni. So what’s one question you have for someone who’s done what’s ahead of you? Ask A Question Now Need inspiration? Here's what others like you have asked. “Hello alumni! My name is Keesha and I'm a sophomore majoring in physics and planning to pursue a minor in entrepreneurship. I'm currently working on developing a physical product. I would love to connect with alumni or Pack supporters to help with this venture, particularly the manufacturing aspects. Thank you so much in advance.” “Jack here. I'm a junior in mechanical engineering with a minor in computer programming. I'm specifically interested in renewable energy but have struggled to garner much interest from employers as my degree is in mechanical engineering. I'm looking to chat with Mechanical Engineering graduates that shifted their career into another field post-graduation. I'm really just am curious to hear more about that process and how it went for you/any advice you might have for me. Thank you so much!” “Hi, I'm Jayden Jones and I am currently a junior, majoring in Neuroscience and Political Science. I have applied to many programs in the past and can never get past the interview stage due to nerves. I've overprepared, winged it and everything in between. Nothing works. I really need help with this and not sure who to turn to. Would love to be connected with others who might have had similar experiences to understand how they overcame their challenges. Thanks!” “Greetings, my name is Tami and I've been working as a management consult for a multi-national firm since I graduated three years ago as a Business Mgmt. major at Poole. I've learned a ton in my current role, but after some soul searching, I know it is time from me to move on. I am interested in transitioning into the non-profit world, ideally focusing on social justice. It would be great to speak to alumni who have transitioned from the corporate world (ideally consulting) into community service. I'm not sure how best to conduct my search and how to convince people I have transferable skills. It has been hard to get my foot in the door. I really appreciate your time and assistance.” Previous Next How It Works 01 You ask. Need help with an idea or active startup? Wondering about career options? 02 We recruit. Our technology (powered by Protopia) uses AI to find the best experts to answer you. 03 Get answers. We “hunt” until you have one or more responses. Delivered right to your email inbox. 04 Say ‘thank you.’ And build your network by continuing to stay in touch (such as via LinkedIn). Not sure how to ask? We’ve got a short video that will turn you into a networking rock star. Frequently Asked Questions WHAT CAN I ASK? Literally anything to help with your academic or professional development. There are thousands of alumni, faculty, staff and friends that can help with class projects, building and growing a startup or figuring out career options. WHAT'S A GOOD QUESTION? Think of your question as an advertisement. Share who you are, what you are doing, and what you need help with. Keep it short and sweet. Here’s a short video on how to craft a great question that will get you results and help build your network. WHO WILL SEE MY QUESTION? We send your request to the best alumni, faculty, and staff in your area of interest. CAN I REQUEST SOMEONE SPECIFIC? No. We make our matches based on availability, proximity, experience and skills. CAN I ASK A FOLLOW-UP QUESTION? Yes, of course! Once we make a match you’ll have direct, one-to-one communication and can ask additional questions. HOW LONG WILL IT TAKE TO GET AN ANSWER? Our goal is to get you answers within 3 business days. But it depends on what you’re asking. It can go as quickly as an hour to as long as 10 days or more. WILL MY QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS BE CONFIDENTIAL? Your question will not be made public. It will be seen only by matched experts and a handful of administrators. IS THERE A LIMIT TO HOW OFTEN I CAN ASK? No. You can ask as many questions as you would like. In fact, we encourage it as this is the simplest way for you to build your professional network. I was really impressed with how easy it was to get in contact with NC State alumni. I just had to submit a question and I heard back from multiple Wolfpack alumni within days. Super easy and helpful! I thoroughly enjoyed my experience. It’s quite awesome to see just how large the NC State community is, and really encouraging to see how willing alumni are to help out current students. Definitely recommend. Riley H.CLASS OF ’23 After submitting my question, within a day I had multiple alumni offering me help and guidance. Several of whom were more than willing to connect with me on LinkedIn and review my resume for tips and editing suggestions. Perhaps the best part about my experience is that it did more than help with the simple question I asked. I believe it played a large role in helping me land my Co-op position. The process took all of about 5 minutes to submit my question and I received so much great feedback from different alumni. Drew B.CLASS OF ’23 The mentors were so insightful! One hopped on a video call and shared a lot of valuable feedback, while pushing me to think outside the box. I am going to meet with another soon. They are investing so much time and effort in connecting me with incredible resources and people. They are really going above and beyond to leverage their networks. It means the world! Jeyashree H.CLASS OF ’20 Previous Next Go ahead and ask It has never been simpler to get help from others that have done what’s ahead of you. Seriously. ASK A QUESTION The use of Ask the Pack is subject to our Terms Of Use. Questions? Contact us at ask-the-pack@ncsu.edu. We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok