Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box ASOSU - Associated Students of Oregon State University Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Get Involved Student Government SafeRide Office of Advocacy Student Legal Services Student Advisory Board Contact Us Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Get Involved Student Government SafeRide Office of Advocacy Student Legal Services Student Advisory Board Contact Us asosu_logo_transparent.png PUBLIC MEETINGS: Public Meeting Notice: Conference Committee Please note that the previously-scheduled conference committee meeting for May 18, 2022, has been cancelled. (At this time, there are no items of business before the Congress for which a conference committee may be called under the ASOSU Statutes.) The ASOSU Student Fee Committee Meetings for spring term are scheduled for Fridays at 3:00 p.m. Zoom link to attend (open to the public) The 81st ASOSU Senate Meetings for spring term are scheduled for Tuesdays at 6:00 p.m. Zoom links + more information (open to the public) Senate Mailing List The 13th ASOSU House of Representatives Meetings for spring term are scheduled for Wednesdays at 6:00 p.m. Zoom link to attend (open to the public) House Mailing List UPDATES AND INFORMATION: COVID-19 Updates Email: asosu@oregonstate.edu Phone: 541-737-6300 ASOSU Office of Advocacy Visit us online here, or email us asosu.advocacy@oregonstate.edu ASOSU Student Legal Services Visit us online here, or email us asosu@accessthelaw.org ASOSU Advisory Team/Office of Student Governance Contact Jenni Betschart, jenni.betschart@oregonstate.edu or 541-737-7241 Leslie Schacht Drey, leslie.schachtdrey@oregonstate.edu or 541-737-5459 ASOSU Student Leadership Contact Information President, Dhru Patel, asosu.pres@oregonstate.edu Vice President, Dylan Perfect, asosu.vp@oregonstate.edu Speaker of the House, Luc Schnell, asosu.speaker@oregonstate.edu Student Fee Committee Chair, Mak Khan, asosu.sfcchair@oregonstate.edu YOU ARE A STUDENT. YOU HAVE A VOICE. MAKE IT KNOWN. Get Involved! ASOSU is looking for volunteers who want to gain leadership experience and make a difference on and off campus. Sign Up to Volunteer Questions or concerns? Email us at asosu@oregonstate.edu. Get Involved! There are positions open now. Apply below! 1. ASOSU Judicial Council Apply now! 2. Faculty Senate Student Representative Apply Now! Be part of Democracy! As a student, you are automatically able to vote in ASOSU elections. Since we love democracy, ASOSU leads efforts every year to get students signed up with TurboVote so students can engage in local, state, and federal elections. Anyone can use TurboVote to check and update their voter registration information and to keep up-to-date on elections happening in their area. Use TurboVote and be part of democracy larger than this campus! ASOSU is every student at Oregon State University. WHO ARE WE AND WHAT DO WE DO? MISSION ASOSU is every student at Oregon State University. We exist as an organization to promote academic excellence, encourage the intellectual, social, cultural, and physical development of the student body, and enable the student body to assert its varied interests as citizens and members of the academic community through democratic representation. VISION We believe a better campus, a better community, a better experience happens when we come together. You are a student. You have a Voice. Make it known. Contact Info Associated Students of Oregon State University Student Government - SEC 250 541-737-6300 asosu@oregonstate.edu SafeRide - SEC 108 541-737-5000 saferide@oregonstate.edu Office of Advocacy - SEC 228 541-737-9200 asosu.advocacy@oregonstate.edu Student Legal Services - SEC 232 541-737-4165 asosu@accessthelaw.org Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer