As of September 2021, all Ethnic & Gender (E&G) offices are open to support your student success and needs. Please check individual websites for specific, operational hours and contact info. Masks are required indoors at all times and proof of completion of Daily Wellness Survey is required to enter all E&G offices. In order to keep us all safe, we also ask that you please continue to wash your hands, maintain physical distance, and all other health measures to reduce risk. We look forward to connecting soon. × Skip to main content University of California, Riverside UCR Home A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People Search UC Riverside African Student Programs It takes an entire campus to graduate a scholar Search Home Who We Are Our Mission Our History Our Community Our Staff Programs Black Student Experience Working Group (BSEWG) Our Programs Scholarships Get Involved Donate News/Events Black Alumni Contact Us Contact ASP Black Faculty and Staff UCR Home A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People African Student Programs Breadcrumb African Student Programs Previous Next Welcome to African Student Programs We are here to support, advance, and inspire our students of African descent. We strive to ignite our students’ academic, cultural, and social development by providing opportunities to grow as role models, leaders, professionals, and scholars. It is a point of pride that UC Riverside is a standout college choice for Black students, and their success doesn’t stop at enrollment. Our students have a reputation for graduating at rates higher than any other group on campus. Plus, in the years between matriculation and graduation, they make remarkable contributions to our campus and surrounding community. African Student Programs and its efforts are a big part of that magnetic draw, remarkable retention, and hugely positive impact. Since 1972, we have been a distinct example of excellence on this, the most diverse of the University of California campuses, and we want you to be a part of that exciting legacy. Donate Tap in: Contact Us Here for You, Always. Student Affairs is here to support you throughout the campus closure. Connect FOLLOW US: Student Affairs COVID-19 Resources for Student Health and Safety Learn More Events See Events Calendar Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR African Student Programs 133 Costo Hall Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-4576 email: aspucr@ucr.edu Find Us Follow US: Facebook Twitter UCR African Student Programs Instagram Related Links African Student Programs Asian Pacific Student Programs Chicano Student Programs LGBT Resource Center Native American Student Programs Middle Eastern Student Center Undocumented Student Programs Women's Resource Center Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel