Skip to main content Search: Search Search Context This Site Cornell Resolutions Meetings Committees Members Office of the Assemblies Resolutions Meetings Committees Members Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Home Home Get Involved Input & Issues University Hearing & Review Boards Undergraduate Students Graduate and Professional Students Staff Members Faculty Members Shared Governance Employee Assembly Staff Conversations Resolutions Meetings Committees Members Governing Documents Staff Awards Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Resolutions Meetings Committees Members Governing Documents Student Assembly Resolutions Meetings Committees Members Governing Documents University Assembly Resolutions Meetings Committees Members Governing Documents Board of Trustees Faculty Senate Archival Documents Elections Undergraduate Students Graduate and Professional Students Staff Members Faculty Members Constituent-Elected Trustees Tools & Resources General Resources Student Code of Conduct Funding Undergraduate Student Funding Graduate & Professional Student Forms and Accounts About The Office History of Shared Governance Legislative Process and Parliamentary Procedure Get Our Attention! Quick Links Assemblies Directory Archive Website Is [title] accepting applications? [field_active] The Graduate and Professional Student Assembly ensures direct and continued involvement of graduate and professional school students in the governance of non-academic affairs of the University. The GPSA brings together Cornell’s community of graduate and professional students to address non-academic issues of common concern. Drawing upon the strengths of its diverse community, the GPSA is responsible for setting and distributing the graduate student activity fee and representatives to University committees. The GPSA voting member body is composed of 36 voting members including delegates from each graduate division, the graduate and professional schools, and standing committee chairpersons, elected from the larger body of field representatives. Join the Graduate and Professional Student Assembly See a listing of open voting members seats, as well as available committee positions, for the 2021-2022 term. Graduate and Professional Community Initiative (GPCI) Share your ideas to enhance graduate & professional student life at Cornell. Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Faculty Awards See current and prior year GPSA Faculty awardees. Meet the Leadership View All Members Preston Redding Hanley Preston Redding Hanley President, Graduate and Professional Student Assembly prh63@cornell.edu Preston R. Hanley is beginning his second semester in the Master of Public Administration Program in the Brooks School of Public Policy. In addition to serving as President of the GPSA, Preston serves as an economic and political research intern for USAID's FIJI office and Treasurer of the Cornell Public Affairs Society. On campus you will find Preston at the Cornell Dairy Bar or enjoying some orange chicken in Trillium. Damien Rashad Sharp Damien Rashad Sharp Executive Vice President, Graduate and Professional Assembly drs395@cornell.edu Damien R. Sharp is currently a second-year graduate student in the Brooks School of Public Policy, studying government, politics, and policy. At Cornell, in addition to serving as the Executive Vice President of the Graduate and Professional Student Assembly (GPSA), Damien serves the Cornell Public Affairs Society as the Executive Vice President and is a member on the Campus Planning Committee. Damien resides in Ithaca, NY and enjoys frequenting the Ithaca Farmer’s Market and area wineries. Kate Carter Cram Kate Carter Cram Vice President of Operations, Graduate and Professional Student Assembly kkc74@cornell.edu Kate Carter-Cram is a first-year MS student in the Dyson School's Applied Economics and Management program. Kate is interested in international economic development policy, but specifically as the field intersects with feminist/ gender and labor economics. She strives to listen to and empower all graduate and professional students to create a sense of belonging and ownership for everyone in the campus community. Kate is originally from Boise, Idaho and enjoys traveling, watching movies, and discovering new experiences. Genesis Li Genesis Li Vice President of Communications, Graduate and Professional Student Assembly yl994@cornell.edu As a first-year MPA candidate in Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy, Genesis is passionate in policy analysis, public relations, and immigration law. With the hope of bringing Cornell's graduate and professional communities together, Genesis aims to advocate and bring greater diversity and inclusion awareness to the campus. Genesis's interests for politics and law led her to do a congressional internship in Congresswoman Cheri Bustos's office and work for an immigration nonprofit organization in Illinois for 2 years. Nikola Danev Nikola Danev Ranking Member, University Assembly (Graduate and Professional Student Representative); Counsel, Graduate and Professional Student Assembly nd398@cornell.edu Nikola is a PhD student in Genetics in the Van de Walle Lab at the Baker Institute for Animal Health, where he studies stem cells in various veterinary species. In addition to his research, he serves as a firefighter/EMT in the local community. His goals on the assemblies are to advocate for graduate and professional students, support diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, and involve more graduate and professional students in the University decision-making processes. Join Us for a Meeting Latest Meeting Cornell University - Graduate and Professional Student Assembly 04/25/2022 5:30pm 701 Clark Hall // Zoom View All Meetings Actions on the floor GPSA R13 - Resolution Commending the Service of Wendy Treat, Office of the Assemblies Senior Coordinator Read More GPSA R12 - Recommendation for the Graduate and Professional Student Activity Fee for 2022-2024 Read More GPSA R10 - Resolution Establishing a Vice President of Finance on the Executive Committee & Renaming of Finance Commission and Finance Commission Chair Read More GPSA R9 - Amending the Charter of the GPSA to Fill Vacant Voting Member Seats Read More GPSA R8 - Proposed Charter Amendment for the 2022-2024 Byline Funding Cycle Read More GPSA R7 - GPSA Internal Budget for the 2021-2022 Term Read More View All Resolutions Join a Committee Graduate and Professional Student Assembly GPCI Ad Hoc Committee The Graduate and Professional Community Initiative (GPCI) is a needs assessment and strategic planning document for the Graduate and Professional community. This ad hoc committee reviews the current GPCI and develops a new document every five years. More Information Apply Now Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Diversity and International Students Committee Connects and advocates specifically for international graduate students and graduate students from diverse backgrounds. More Information Apply Now Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Communications Committee The Communications Committee maintains the accessible flow of information from the GPSA to the graduate and professional student body and the Cornell community. More Information Apply Now View All Committees Contact the Assembly Contact the Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Name Email I am a * Cornell Undergraduate StudentCornell Graduate/Professional StudentCornell Staff MemberCornell Faculty MemberExternal Community Member Message * Subscribe to Email Updates Name * Email * Subscription Options SA Info/Agenda List UA Info/Agenda List GPSA Info/Agenda List EA Info/Agenda List Get Involved Input & Issues University Hearing & Review Boards Undergraduate Students Graduate and Professional Students Staff Members Faculty Members Shared Governance Employee Assembly Graduate and Professional Student Assembly Student Assembly University Assembly Board of Trustees Faculty Senate Archival Documents Elections Undergraduate Students Graduate and Professional Students Staff Members Faculty Members Constituent-Elected Trustees Tools & Resources General Resources Student Code of Conduct Funding About The Office History of Shared Governance Legislative Process and Parliamentary Procedure Get Our Attention! Quick Links Assemblies Directory Archive Website © 2022 Cornell University | Managed by the Office of the Assemblies |109 Day Hall | 607-255-3715 | Staff Login | Sitemap | Site Info | Web Accessibility Assistance