Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford Associates Menu Home Grants Awards Degree of Uncommon Citizen Gold Spike Award Stanford Medal Governors’ Award Award of Merit Associates Designees Board of Governors Volunteer Leadership Main content start Stanford Associates The university's honorary organization for alumni volunteer service, Stanford Associates was established in 1935. Led by its Board of Governors, Stanford Associates recognizes and encourages alumni engagement through awards and grants. Grants Learn more about the Stanford Associates' grants program, which annually provides funding to campus organizations for innovative projects that engage alumni. See grantees Awards Read about Stanford Associates' volunteer service awards, conferred by the Board of Governors, which recognize outstanding alumni service across the university. See recipients Associates Designees Looking for a Stanford Associate? Search our list of lifetime Stanford Associates designees, the university's most dedicated volunteers. Look for an Associate Board of Governors The Stanford Associates Board of Governors oversees the Associates' awards and grants programs. View the current roster of Governors Volunteer leadership Stanford’s volunteer leaders are cultivated over years and across university programs and disciplines. Read our tips for taking your volunteer service to the next level. Read more Stanford Alumni Association Frances C. Arrillaga Alumni Center 326 Galvez Street Stanford, CA 94305-6105 map Find an alum Check your alumni email Access SAA Member Card Give to Stanford Stanford Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Stanford Instagram Youtube Accessibility | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Code of Conduct Events Featured Events Reunions Communities Clubs & Groups Young Alumni Students Reading & Resources News & Stories Learn STANFORD magazine Career Connections Newsletters Racial Justice Programs & Perks Alumni Perks Alumni Membership Sierra Programs Travel/Study Wine Collection Alumni store Volunteer Volunteer Opportunities Stanford Associates Beyond the Farm Trustee Nominations About About SAA Alumni Center Event Space Contact Us Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top