Skip to content Astrobiology Menu MENUMENU Home About Astrobiology News Graduate Certificate ExplOrigins Group Astrobiology Fellows Research Centers Writing and Communication Events Public Events Seminars ExplOrigins Colloquium Graduate Events People Faculty Staff Research Scientists Postdocs Graduate Students Alumni Education Contact Summer 2022 Meeting Schedule: Time: TBD Location: TBD Video Call Link: TBD Sign-up to lead a meeting! Link: Google Sheet Meeting Schedule TBD What is the goal of ExplOrigins? To bring together people interested in Exploring the cosmos and understanding the Origins of life To provide a space for the discussion of planetary science, origins of life chemistry and biology, space exploration technology, and the search for life beyond Earth To bring together researchers and interested individuals from across Georgia Tech and the greater Atlanta area to explore new avenues of collaboration and investigation To serve as a networking resource for early career scientists to meet and learn from researchers outside their area of expertise To function as a resource for students to communicate and help direct the shared goals of the Georgia Tech Astrobiology community The ExplOrigins Group is an interest and discussion group with a goal to bring together young researchers with a needfully diverse set of backgrounds to discuss and explore all variety of recent topics pertaining to the Origins and Evolution of Life, the Exploration of our Solar System, and the Search for Habitable Planets Beyond Earth. Stay Informed: If you are interested in staying up to date on Explorigins, please join our email list via listserv. To do so: 1. Send a message to sympa@lists.gatech.edu from the address you want to subscribe to the list. 2. In the subject line of your message, type: subscribe explorigins Firstname Lastname 3. Leave the message body blank. You can also join our Slack channel by clicking THIS LINK. Slack is the primary channel of communication for students outside of our regular meeting times and is used to further discussions and plan future ExplOrigins activities. Click here to learn more about careers in astrobiology. Recent Posts Congratulations Abbie Johnson! Evolution of Astrobiology at Georgia Tech Featured in GT Daily Digest Special Event : We Discovered Alien Life, Now What Special PSAS: A Stress-based Framework for Understanding Icy Worlds as a Population of Solar System Bodies Congrats to 2022-2023 Astrobiology Fellows! Facebook YouTube Proudly powered by WordPress