Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Internal (Log In) Home About Climate and Diversity Astronomy Student Council Research Research Home Cosmology Exoplanets Extragalactic Astronomy Galactic Astronomy High Energy Astrophysics Instrumentation Solar and Stellar Astrophysics Star Formation and ISM Joint Research Programs HITS-Yale Program in Astrophysics Tschira Postdoctoral Fellows Yale-Chile Graduate Student Visiting Scholarships in Astrophysics Yale-Chile Graduate Student Visiting Scholars Yale-Chile Joint Postdoctoral Fellow Program in Astrophysics Hoffleit Scholarship Undergraduate Research Public Data Products Academics Undergraduate Program Degree Programs and Requirements Curriculum Maps Senior Project Guidelines Suggested Courses in Other Departments Astro Sibs - Undergraduate Mentorship Program Undergraduate Research Hoffleit Scholarship Hoffleit Scholarship FAQs Hoffleit Scholarship Application Dorrit Hoffleit Scholars Yale College Academic Calendars Apply Prizes Beckwith Prize Recipients Graduate Program Prospective Student Information Application Admissions Funding & Aid Diversity Life at Yale About GSAS Advising Guidelines for the Yale Astronomy Graduate Program Program of Study Fall 2020 Courses Yale Online Course Search Research Teaching Fellow Program Gruber Science Fellowship Prizes Brouwer Prize Recipients Facilities Yale-NASA Keck Remote Observing Facility Remote Observing at Yale Remote Workstation Manual Polycom Manuals YROF Allocation Policy Yale-Palomar Remote Observing Facility Yale Time Allocation Committee Facility Information for Yale Proposers Leitner Family Observatory and Planetarium Astronomy Library ORBIS search Yale University Library Astronomy Resources Marx Science and Social Science Library Yale University Library Home NASA ADS Abstract Search News and Events News Conferences and Workshops Boris Garfinkel Lectures Events Calendar Media Directory Faculty Postdocs/Research Scientists Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Staff Graduate Alumni Undergraduate Alumni Yale Directory Search People Contact Us In the News Marla Geha, awarded the Dylan Hixon ’88 Prize for teaching excellence in the natural sciences Thu, 05/05/2022 In a ceremony held in the Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning on May 5, Yale College Dean Marvin Chun read the nominating students’ words of praise: “Marla... Priya Natarajan receives Liberty Science Center ‘Genius Award’ Mon, 05/02/2022 Priya Natarajan, professor of astronomy and of physics. who explores cosmology, gravitational lensing, and black hole physics, is being honored with a Liberty Science Center... New, improved Dragonfly telescope is a galactic gas detector Thu, 03/10/2022 The Dragonfly telescope is undergoing a metamorphosis. For the past decade, the Dragonfly Telephoto Array — designed by Yale’s Pieter van Dokkum and the... "Evolution of Stars and Gas in Galaxies" by Beatrice Tinsley now digitized Mon, 03/07/2022 A classic and highly influential paper by the late Professor Beatrice Tinsley has been digitized and made available to a wider audience. The paper "Evolution... More news... Academic Calendars 2021-22 Academic Program Links Course Search Faculty Research Areas Graduate Program Application Undergraduate Program Application Hoffleit Scholarship Public Outreach Join us for an outdoor session on the LFOP observing deck on Tuesdays, (weather permitting) at 8:30pm ET. Visitors will need to line-up in a socially-distanced queue and wear masks. We also ask visitors to not touch the telescopes. As always, public observing is a free event and open to everyone. In-person Planetarium shows are still on-hold as the LFOP building and domes remain closed to the public. In the meantime, please visit our YouTube page to view past episides of our virtual planetarium shows via the link below. Click here to check out past episodes. Climate and Diversity The Astronomy Department stands in support of Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC), who continue to suffer from long-standing systemic racism. Recent incidents of police brutality against BIPOC are symptomatic of systemic racism that cannot be tolerated. Read more… Yale Astronomy Climate and Diversity Statement Upcoming Events Check back soon for our upcoming events! Astronomy at Yale More Videos Contact Information Yale Department of Astronomy Physical / Shipping Address: Yale University Department of Astronomy Steinbach Hall Yale University 52 Hillhouse Avenue New Haven, CT 06511 Mailing Address: Yale University Department of Astronomy P.O. Box 208101 New Haven, CT 06520-8101 USA Directions: Getting to & around Yale & New Haven Phone: (203) 432-3000 Fax: (203) 432-5048 Search People Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved