/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage People Department Faculty Emeritus Faculty Other Field Members Academic and Research Staff Department Staff Graduate Students Ph.D. Graduates Academics Undergraduate Studies Courses Undergraduate Research Opportunities Graduate Studies Course Resources Course Archive Research Events Outreach About Us Values Statement Climate and Diversity Resources Friends of Astronomy Contact the Department The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Exploration that spans the universe Department of Astronomy The Department of Astronomy is one of the leading centers for astronomical research in the world. The department places strong emphasis on the participation of students in ongoing research projects and strives to foster an interdisciplinary approach to solving astronomical problems by maintaining strong ties with other departments. Many undergraduate and graduate alumni of Cornell astronomy have become leaders in the field. The department is also actively engaged in outreach to the broader community. Pick a destination Research Courses Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Faculty Department of Astronomy research The Department of Astronomy is a leading center of astrophysics and planetary science research. Visit CCAPS, the Cornell Center for Astrophysics and Planetary Science Learn about the Carl Sagan Institute Icefin, sub-ice exploring robotic submarine (Image credit: Dicheck/Schmidt/Icefin) Research spotlight The Planetary Society has an in-depth conversation with Associate Professor Britney Schmidt discussing how we'll recognize life when we find it elsewhere, her sub-ice exploring robotic submarine, why we need an even bigger space telescope and the best place for ice cream at Cornell. Learn more about astronomy research at Cornell. Astronomy News Peering through alien atmospheres Jonathan Barrientos is exploring the possibility of life on Earth-like planets beyond our solar system, called exoplanets. Read More Jayawardhana reappointed A&S dean, named Bethe professor “Dean Jayawardhana has been an exceptional leader of the university’s most academically diverse college,” Provost Michael Kotlikoff said. Read More Reunion 2022 features host of A&S events A number of special events are planned in the College of Arts & Sciences to celebrate Reunion 2022. Read More Twenty-five receive awards recognizing inclusive excellence The awards recognize the excellence represented within the graduate community and celebrates students for their accomplishments. Read More Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More Team reveals first image of the black hole at our galaxy’s heart Cornell researchers contributed to the first direct visual evidence of something compact and very massive at the center of the Milky Way. Read More Student Spotlight: Yubo Su Yubo Su is a doctoral candidate in astronomy and space sciences and recipient of a 2022 Wu Scholarship. Read More Major progress made in construction of Fred Young Submillimeter Telescope Project scientists are looking forward to collecting data that will give them insight into the universe’s earliest days; the telescope will also play a role in the search for gravitational waves and dark matter. Read More See all Astronomy news Undergraduate program The Astronomy Major at Cornell University is designed to be flexible so that it can be customized to the needs of each student. Learn about the undergraduate program Graduate program Astronomy offers a wide variety of world-class research opportunities in astronomy, astrophysics and space science, with strong multidisciplinary connections, and a friendly and supportive atmosphere. Explore the graduate program Reaching beyond campus In the spirit of the renowned Cornell Professor Carl Sagan, the Department of Astronomy reaches beyond campus in numerous ways. The Spacecraft Planetary Image Facility (SPIF) is a repository of spacecraft data, a facilitator of research, and a hub for PreK-12 education and public outreach activities. Ask an Astronomer has been answering questions from the curious since 1997. The Cornell Astronomical Society conducts viewing nights at the Fuertes Observatory and offers educational programing to the public. Astronomy Events See all events 404 Space Sciences Building Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Department of Astronomy 607-255-6920 Twitter Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top