Skip to content Loading... Your browser does not support JavaScript, or it is currently disabled. This site requires JavaScript support to run properly. Toggle navigation Site home Programs Deadlines LOGIN Global Research and Internship Program International Travel Registry- IAP Non-GT Program Registration Executive MBA Program Registration Study Abroad Scholarships Program Cost Comparison Faculty-Led Program Course Search Grad Student Opportunities Faculty: Program Proposals Frequently Asked Questions Ed. Abroad General FAQ Faculty-Led and Embedded Programs FAQs Exchange Programs FAQs IAP and Non-GT Programs FAQs Scholarships FAQs Global Research and Internship Program FAQs Announcements Announcements Loading... Previous announcement View All Next announcement Site links Global Research and Internship Program International Travel Registry- IAP Non-GT Program Registration Executive MBA Program Registration Study Abroad Scholarships Program Cost Comparison Faculty-Led Program Course Search Grad Student Opportunities Faculty: Program Proposals Frequently Asked Questions Ed. Abroad General FAQ Faculty-Led and Embedded Programs FAQs Exchange Programs FAQs IAP and Non-GT Programs FAQs Scholarships FAQs Global Research and Internship Program FAQs Announcements Non-GT Program Registration Register for Non-GT A Non-GT Program is one that is available through another university or organization/company that sets up programs abroad. These programs are not affiliated officially with GT, but may offer locations or courses that GT programs do not currently sponsor. Please bear in mind that your choice to study abroad through an organization other than Georgia Tech is a highly independent venture and the responsibility for completing all the necessary steps is yours. 1. Complete the Non-GT Participant Profile by clicking the "Register for Non-GT" button above. 2. Refer to the Registrar for information on course evaluations and transferring credit from a foreign institution back to Georgia Tech. The relevant info will be under the bold heading: Non-GT sponsored Study Abroad Credit. Georgia Tech does not sponsor programs abroad in countries under travel warning. We advise against travel and study in countries that hold a current U.S. Travel Warning. A complete list of these can be found at the U.S. Passports and International Travel website. If you are a GT International Student: As soon as you apply to a program abroad, you MUST contact International Student and Scholar Services to review your U.S. Visa. Please email info@oie.gatech.edu for more information. Info This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read cookie policy Accept? Yes No