Skip to content Loading... Your browser does not support JavaScript, or it is currently disabled. This site requires JavaScript support to run properly. Toggle navigation Site home Programs Deadlines LOGIN Global Research and Internship Program International Travel Registry- IAP Non-GT Program Registration Executive MBA Program Registration Study Abroad Scholarships Program Cost Comparison Faculty-Led Program Course Search Grad Student Opportunities Faculty: Program Proposals Frequently Asked Questions Ed. Abroad General FAQ Faculty-Led and Embedded Programs FAQs Exchange Programs FAQs IAP and Non-GT Programs FAQs Scholarships FAQs Global Research and Internship Program FAQs Announcements Announcements Loading... Previous announcement View All Next announcement Site links Global Research and Internship Program International Travel Registry- IAP Non-GT Program Registration Executive MBA Program Registration Study Abroad Scholarships Program Cost Comparison Faculty-Led Program Course Search Grad Student Opportunities Faculty: Program Proposals Frequently Asked Questions Ed. Abroad General FAQ Faculty-Led and Embedded Programs FAQs Exchange Programs FAQs IAP and Non-GT Programs FAQs Scholarships FAQs Global Research and Internship Program FAQs Announcements Frequently Asked Questions Welcome to the Education Abroad FAQ. We hope that we can answers the questions you have about education abroad programs in general and navigating the education abroad application system, Atlas. If you can't find the answer to your question here, please email us at education.abroad@oie.gatech.edu. General Atlas FAQ How do I search for a program? Select the Program List link from the front page of Atlas. You can search by many different parameters, such as country, region, term, and major. I am a GT student. How do I start a new application? In the top left, click "Programs". Search for your program. Select your program from the search results list. Click "Apply Now" on the right hand side. When prompted to login, use your GT username and password. I am applying for a program as a transient student. How do I start a new application? In the top right, click Non-GT Login/Register. Create new login credentials (these will be separate from your GT Admissions login credentials). Once your account is created, search for your program. Select your program from the search results list. Click "Apply Now" on the right hand side. **Remember to follow the other transient student application instructions. How do I access my study abroad application after I start it? Login to Atlas and navigate to your Applicant Home Page (Home icon → Applicant). On your applicant homepage you should see list of your applications. Click the program name, and that will take you to your application. How do I navigate to my pre-departure requirements? Login to Atlas and navigate to your Applicant Home Page (Home icon → Applicant). From your Applicant Homepage, you will see a list of your Applications. Click on your program name under Applications. This will bring you to a screen where you will access the items that need to be completed. How do I change my email address to receive email to my personal email account? Login to Atlas and go to your Applicant Homepage (Home icon → Applicant) Click Edit Profile Scroll down and enter a CC email address Click Update Faculty-Led and Embedded Study Abroad FAQ Exchange Programs FAQ Global Research and Internship Program (GRIP) FAQ International Academic Project (IAP) and Non-GT Programs FAQ Scholarship Application FAQ Info This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read cookie policy Accept? Yes No