Skip to content Loading... Your browser does not support JavaScript, or it is currently disabled. This site requires JavaScript support to run properly. Toggle navigation Site home Programs Deadlines LOGIN Global Research and Internship Program International Travel Registry- IAP Non-GT Program Registration Executive MBA Program Registration Study Abroad Scholarships Program Cost Comparison Faculty-Led Program Course Search Grad Student Opportunities Faculty: Program Proposals Frequently Asked Questions Ed. Abroad General FAQ Faculty-Led and Embedded Programs FAQs Exchange Programs FAQs IAP and Non-GT Programs FAQs Scholarships FAQs Global Research and Internship Program FAQs Announcements Announcements Loading... Previous announcement View All Next announcement Site links Global Research and Internship Program International Travel Registry- IAP Non-GT Program Registration Executive MBA Program Registration Study Abroad Scholarships Program Cost Comparison Faculty-Led Program Course Search Grad Student Opportunities Faculty: Program Proposals Frequently Asked Questions Ed. Abroad General FAQ Faculty-Led and Embedded Programs FAQs Exchange Programs FAQs IAP and Non-GT Programs FAQs Scholarships FAQs Global Research and Internship Program FAQs Announcements International Travel Registry- IAP Register Travel The travel registry provides the Office of International Education with your international travel information so that OIE can contact you and provide assistance in the event of an emergency. By registering your travel, OIE shares important pre-departure information to assist you with health and safety topics, enrolls you in insurance (which will be billed to your Bursar account), and provides Institute contact information in the event of an emergency. You are required to register your travel if you will be participating in an International Academic Project. The following are examples of International Academic Projects: Research Abroad Service Learning Conferences Independent Study Design Competitions Special Problems Course Academic Competitions Senior Design Volunteer Programs Please do not register personal travel. You will need to complete your travel registration online. You also have the option of attending an International Pre-Departure Orientation or you may contact education.abroad@oie.gatech.edu to schedule a group pre-departure meeting. OIE will cover the following topics at the orientation: Health and Safety Information Insurance Information Passport and Visa Information GT Student Policies Department of State Resources Cross-Cultural Resources Emergency response Students are not permitted to travel abroad as part of an International Academic Project to a country (or areas of countries) that are assigned a US State Department Travel Advisory Level 3 (Reconsider Travel) or 4 (Do Not Travel). A full list of current travel advisories can be found here. Additionally, it is highly recommended for students who are US citizens to register their travel through the US State Department's STEP program. To review the full policy on Restricted Student Travel, click here. To submit an appeal through the GT Appeal Committee on Restricted Student Travel, follow the guidelines outlined here. If you are a GT International Student: As soon as you apply to a program abroad, you MUST contact International Student and Scholar Services to review your U.S. Visa. Please email info@oie.gatech.edu for more information. Should you have any questions or concerns about the International Travel Registry process or about other matters related to your international academic project, please do not hesitate to contact the Office of International Education so that we may assist you. Info This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read cookie policy Accept? Yes No