Skip to content Loading... Your browser does not support JavaScript, or it is currently disabled. This site requires JavaScript support to run properly. Toggle navigation Site home Programs Deadlines LOGIN Global Research and Internship Program International Travel Registry- IAP Non-GT Program Registration Executive MBA Program Registration Study Abroad Scholarships Program Cost Comparison Faculty-Led Program Course Search Grad Student Opportunities Faculty: Program Proposals Frequently Asked Questions Ed. Abroad General FAQ Faculty-Led and Embedded Programs FAQs Exchange Programs FAQs IAP and Non-GT Programs FAQs Scholarships FAQs Global Research and Internship Program FAQs Announcements Announcements Loading... Previous announcement View All Next announcement Site links Global Research and Internship Program International Travel Registry- IAP Non-GT Program Registration Executive MBA Program Registration Study Abroad Scholarships Program Cost Comparison Faculty-Led Program Course Search Grad Student Opportunities Faculty: Program Proposals Frequently Asked Questions Ed. Abroad General FAQ Faculty-Led and Embedded Programs FAQs Exchange Programs FAQs IAP and Non-GT Programs FAQs Scholarships FAQs Global Research and Internship Program FAQs Announcements STUDY ABROAD APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS To apply for a study abroad program, you will need to select your program from the Program List. From the program page, select "Apply Now" to begin your application. You will log in with your GT credentials and be prompted to set up your account. To return to your application after you have submitted it, you can log back into the system by selecting "LOGIN" in the top right corner. 1. Complete the online application (General Questionnaire) for your program 2. Pay the Program's deposit through the Online Deposit Payment System (Save a copy of your payment confirmation for your records.) 3. Submit any supporting documentation required for your program to OIE (OIE will mark your application once it has been received.) Applications that are not submitted correctly will be considered incomplete resulting in significant processing delays. If you have any issues navigating the site or accessing the application, please contact your Education Abroad Advisor or email education.abroad@oie.gatech.edu. After you have submitted an application, you can use the LOGIN in the top right corner to access your education abroad account. To register for a Global Internship, Non-GT program or International Academic Project, select the relevant link to in the left menu and login in with your GT credentials. Faculty/Staff, if you need login assistance, please contact education.abroad@oie.gatech.edu. Info This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read cookie policy Accept? Yes No