Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROGRAM Georgia Tech Research Institute Main navigation Home About Facilities Research Robotics and Automation Systems Advanced Imaging and Sensors Environmental and Energy Systems Food Safety Technologies People Publications Working With ATRP Contact G I V E Open Search Search Search Driving Innovation in Poultry, Agribusiness, and Food Manufacturing Welcome to the Agricultural Technology Research Program Welcome to the Agricultural Technology Research Program The Agricultural Technology Research Program drives transformational innovation, developing new methods and systems specifically designed for poultry, agribusiness, and food manufacturing applications. These innovations are created to maximize productively and efficiency, advance safety and health, and minimize environmental impacts. Our goal is to transition technologies from concept to commercialization, as quickly and economically as possible. Robotics and Automation Systems Robotics/automation research studies focus on “intelligent” automation systems, which incorporate advanced sensors, robotics, and computer simulation and control technologies in an integrated package. Learn More Advanced Imaging and Sensors Advanced imaging and sensor concepts research studies focus on the design of systems for grading, inspection, and animal health monitoring. The systems employ audio as well as stereo 3D, time-of-flight, visible, IR, and UV imaging modalities. Learn More Environmental and Energy Systems Environmental and energy research studies focus on emerging technologies that help to reduce water usage and waste generation, while also facilitating the recovery of waste heat and value-added byproducts from processing operations. Learn More Food Safety Technologies Food safety research focuses on technologies to improve process control and product quality. Learn More NEWS Are Robots Taking Our Jobs? Some Say They Are Making Life Easier Learn More Lance Barrett and Ryan Giometti Selected as Inaugural R. Harold and Patsy Harrison Student Interns in the Abit Massey Student Internship Program Learn More From Virtual Reality to Ice Slurries: How ATRP is Impacting Georgia, the Nation, and World Learn More Faces of Research: Meet Judy Song Learn More Konrad Ahlin Named First R. Harold and Patsy Harrison Research Faculty Fellow in Poultry Technologies Learn More The Abit Massey Student Internship Program Learn More The Fall 2021 Issue of PoultryTech is Available Read the Newsletter 2021 ATRP Annual Report Available Online Read the Report Agricultural Technology Research Program Georgia Institute of Technology 640 Strong St Atlanta, Georgia 30318 404-407-8812 Agricultural Technology Research Program Map Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN