Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Achievement & Assessment Institute Agile Technology Solutions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Kite Suite Products Select to follow link Content Building Assessments Data Collection New & Coming Soon Design Services About ATS Contact Careers More Information Achievement & Assessment Institute Kite Privacy Statement Kite Terms of Use myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Achievement & Assessment Institute Agile Technology Solutions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Your online assessment tool and survey solution Kite Products Online Assessment Tools and Software Design Agile Technology Solutions' (ATS) experienced team of IT professionals design, develop, and support online assessment tools and software applications to meet our client's needs. Highlighted by the Kite® Suite, our flagship program, ATS is leading the charge in online educational assessment development, content integration, sophisticated data collection tools, and more. <nolink> Content Building Create your own items or import your existing media to create an assessment that works with your content. Explore How to Build Content Assessment Utilize the Kite Suite’s intuitive and secure product tools to manage and complete your small or large assessments. Discover Kite Assessment Tools Data Collection Create custom surveys, assign them to your organization, and manage participant data using Kite Survey Solutions. Learn About Data Collection The Kite Suite has a proven track record supporting assessments ~5M Assessment Sessions Supported Every Year +200K Concurrent Assessment Taker Capacity 99.9% Percentage of service call wait times under a minute We provide best in class customer support for our Kite Suite products “Exceptional Kite services” Efficient, helpful, knowledgeable and professional describes the Kite Support Team. Thank you for providing exceptional Kite services and support to New Hampshire schools and SEA staff. –Michelle G. New Hampshire Department of Education “Friendly and professional” No matter what the question or technical issue, someone takes the time to respond quickly. The friendly voice that answered the phone was a relief to whatever stresses the day seemed to present as we learned a new system. Thank you for your professionalism and customer service! –Gayle R. Fort Leavenworth, KS “Efficient and knowledgeable” I appreciate how efficient the Kite Service Desk always is. I have never felt ridiculed for a question and they always find a solution for me! –Teresa A. Santana, KS Find your solution with ATS Kite Suite Products Learn about Kite's content integration tools, assessment building, data collection, and more. Learn More Design Services We design custom websites, graphics, and videos to support your business marketing needs. Learn More Questions for Us? Let us know how we can help! See our contact information and get in touch with our team today! Learn More Swipe to see more ATS Coming Soon and About Us Pages What's New and Coming Soon to Kite We continuously create new functionalities to make Kite Suite even better for our users. Read more about our new features and upcoming additions to Kite Suite. New and Upcoming Kite Features Our Team and Our Mission Discover who we are, what we stand for, and everything we do at Agile Technology Solutions. Learn More About ATS Contact an ATS representative today! Call or email us with your questions. We look forward to hearing from you! Contact ATS Contact ATS Agile Technology Solutions 1515 St Andrews Dr Lawrence, KS 66047 ats_management_dl@ku.edu 785-864-3537 linkedin Achievement & Assessment Institute (AAI) Home Kite Suite Products Design Services About ATS Contact Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.