SEARCH About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors A to Z Index People Directory Social@Brown Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Computer Science About About the Department Contact Directions Partners Rooms Systems & Software Conduit Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Positions Brown CS News Events Brown CS Blog People Our Community Faculty Staff Grad Students Ugrad Students Alums Directory Research Research Links Areas Publications Opportunities For Visiting Students Degrees Degree Programs Doctoral Master's in Computer Science Cybersecurity Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Miscellaneous Courses Course List Schedule Sections TA Program Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Who We Are Resources Action Plan & Initiatives Student Advocates Data And Demographics Student Groups Giving UTA Endowment Awards » Awards Awards Categories Diversity ( 10 articles ) Awards ( 156 articles ) Socially Responsible Computing ( 2 articles ) Zachary Espiritu Wins The Norman K. Meyrowitz '81 Award Posted by Jesse Polhemus on May 17, 2022 in Awards Click the links that follow for more news about Zachary Espiritu, Norm Meyrowitz, and other recent accomplishments by our students. Brown University's Department of Computer Science has just announced that Zachary Espiritu, a Brown CS student, SPOC (Systems Programmer, Operator, and Consultant), and one of the four Meta-TAs who coordinate the Undergraduate Teaching Assistant program, has just won the Norman K. Meyrowitz '81 Award. Named for an alum known for his contributions to the department, the award recognizes exceptionally meritorious service to Brown CS and is accompanied by a cash prize of five hundred dollars. "Zach was a super-competent UTA, HTA, and MTA," says Brown CS Professor Tom Doeppner, Vice Chair and Director of Undergraduate Studies. "He excelled in research, particularly in cybersecurity, but was also sought out for his research skill in other areas. He took time off from school to undergo cancer treatment, which he pulled through to the relief of everyone." Norm Meyrowitz feels similarly. “I’ve worked with Zach over the past year," he says, "and I can certify that he has done amazingly at a job way more complicated than the one done by the person after whom the award is named.” For more information, click the link that follows to contact Brown CS Communication Outreach Specialist Jesse C. Polhemus. Computer Science at Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912 USA Phone: 401-863-7600 Map & Directions / Contact Us Sign In