Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Faculty Honors & Awards Webmail Search FSU Navigation FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Honorees Opportunities Award Totals Contact Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Skip to main content Faculty Honors & Awards Home Honorees Opportunities Award Totals Contact Ruby P. Lee Professor of Marketing 2016-17 Fulbright Distinguished Chair "In reflecting on my 2016-17 Fulbright award, I have come to realize how much I have learned and how much I still do not know about Finland and Nordic cultures. People I met in Finland were so warm and so wonderful. As specifically to my research, my interactions with faculty members at Hanken School of Economics and the local community have broadened my view of frugal innovation (my Fulbright project) from a wider theoretical and practical perspective. I can't wait to visit Finland again." Jean Munn Associate Professor of Social Work 2015-16 Fulbright Scholar "My time in Prague gave me the opportunity to look at social work through another lens. The political background in the Czech Republic redefined social welfare. The current generation of social workers is overcoming that negative context and providing compassion and support to older adults. It was inspiring." Lori J. Walters The Harry F. Williams Professor Modern languages and Linguistics NEH Fellowship 2016-17 ACLS Fellowship 2016-17 "An NEH fellowship in 1993-1994 launched my career as a specialist of medieval manuscripts. Dual NEH and ACLS grants in 2016-2017 capped my professional standing by funding my study of Christine de Pizan (1365-ca. 1430). I celebrate her as the West’s first secular female public intellectual, whose genius was to establish her authority by publishing the manuscripts of her own texts." Carol Weissert LeRoy Collins Eminent Scholar and Chair of Civic Education and Political Science College of Social Sciences and Public Policy 2015-16 Fulbright Distinguished Chair "I was extremely fortunate to be the Fulbright Distinguished Scholar in American Political Science in Australia in Spring 2016. In that role, I gave five public lectures in Australian Universities from the University of Tasmania to the University of Western Australia. These lectures focused on the U.S. presidential election and drew a large and extremely well-informed group of Australians. It was rewarding to both share information with them and to get a view of our elections from their perspective. The fellowship also allowed me to extend my research on intergovernmental negotiation to Australia. The Fulbright association was extremely helpful in making contacts in Canberra and throughout Australia." Yan Li Assistant Professor of Chemical & Biomedical Engineering FAMU-FSU College of Engineering 2017 NSF CAREER Award "This award enables me to engineer the brain organoids that will provide an experimental platform for discovery of novel interventions and pharmacological treatments for people with neurological disorders." Joseph Travis Professor of Biology College of Arts & Sciences Edward O. Wilson Naturalist Award, 2011 American Academy of Arts & Sciences Elected Member 2015 "These awards reflect the appreciation of my peers for what my students and I have accomplished in science over the years I have been at FSU. They've also given me energy for new directions in my research because they remind me that my instincts for good research directions have proven to be on target." At Florida State University, we are fortunate that our faculty comprises men and women who are widely acknowledged as the finest in their fields. They have distinguished themselves in many disciplines and have gained the high regard of peers around the world. Their academic careers are marked by excellence and the excitement of discovery so important to educating the next generation. Faculty members continually strive to build stronger programs in critical areas of technology and science and in the arts and humanities. The result is the expansion of knowledge as well as the discovery of new inventions, products, and processes benefiting the state of Florida, our nation and the world. Florida State's more than 45,000 students have the opportunity to work and study amidst a diverse and outstanding faculty that includes members of the National Academies, Guggenheim Fellowship recipients, and many Fulbright Scholars. Florida State faculty members lead several scholarly fields in citations of published work and hold multiple honors in the arts, including the Academy Award, Kennedy Center Honors, the Grammy Award, the Capezio and BESSIE Dance Awards, and the Doris Duke Performing Artist Award. Upcoming Deadlines Jun 01 ASME - Max Jakob Memorial Award Jun 01 ASCE - The Professional Practice Ethics and Leadership Award Jun 01 ASBMB - Award for Exemplary Contributions to Education Jun 01 APF - Joseph B. Gittler Award Full List of Awards Florida State Faculty Honors View All Honors 143 AAU Awards 187 TARU Awards 368 NRC Awards 431 Additional Honors Have you won an award? Would you like to be featured? Contact Faculty Recognition 850-645-8203 or fda-faculty-awards@fsu.edu Faculty Recognition | 115 Westcott, Tallahassee, FL 32306-1481 | 850-645-8203 Report comments & broken links to fda-faculty-awards@fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media