SEARCH About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors A to Z Index People Directory Social@Brown Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Computer Science About About the Department Contact Directions Partners Rooms Systems & Software Conduit Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Positions Brown CS News Events Brown CS Blog People Our Community Faculty Staff Grad Students Ugrad Students Alums Directory Research Research Links Areas Publications Opportunities For Visiting Students Degrees Degree Programs Doctoral Master's in Computer Science Cybersecurity Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Miscellaneous Courses Course List Schedule Sections TA Program Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Who We Are Resources Action Plan & Initiatives Student Advocates Data And Demographics Student Groups Giving UTA Endowment Awards Awards Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Awards Categories Diversity ( 10 articles ) Awards ( 156 articles ) Socially Responsible Computing ( 2 articles ) George Konidaris Wins A Salomon Award To Express Prior Knowledge To Reinforcement Learning Agents Posted by Jesse Polhemus on May 18, 2022 in Awards Brown CS Professor George Konidaris has just received a Richard B. Salomon Faculty Research Award. This honor, given annually by Brown’s Office of the Vice-President for Research, was established to support excellence in scholarly work by providing funding for selected faculty research projects of exceptional merit with preference given to junior faculty who are in the process of building their research portfolio. read more » Zachary Espiritu Wins The Norman K. Meyrowitz '81 Award Posted by Jesse Polhemus on May 17, 2022 in Awards Brown University's Department of Computer Science has just announced that Zachary Espiritu, a Brown CS student, SPOC (Systems Programmer, Operator, and Consultant), and one of the four Meta-TAs who coordinate the Undergraduate Teaching Assistant program, has just won the Norman K. Meyrowitz '81 Award. Named for an alum known for his contributions to the department, the award recognizes exceptionally meritorious service to Brown CS and is accompanied by a cash prize of five hundred dollars. read more » Twenty-Five Students Win Brown CS Senior Prizes Posted by Jesse Polhemus on May 16, 2022 in Awards Brown CS has just announced that it has recognized 25 graduating seniors for their academic accomplishments as well as their service to the department this year. Usha Bhalla, Ross Briden, Champ Chairattana-Apirom, Jack Ciabaton, Jason Crowley, Thomas Del Vecchio, Evan Dǒng, Shenandoah Duraideivamani, Zachary Espiritu, Aalia Habib, Chace Hayhurst, Alexander Ivanov, Isabel Lai, Xinru Li, Jing Wei Nicholas Lim, Jiaju Ma, Lily Mayo, Julia McClellan, Neev Parikh, Top Piriyakulkij, Adam Pikielny, Monica Roy, Kshitij Sachan, Seiji Shaw, and Caleb Trotz have each received the Senior Prize in Computer Science for their academic work as well as their service to Brown … read more » Maurice Herlihy And Collaborators Win The 2022 Dijkstra Prize, Maurice's Third Posted by Jesse Polhemus on April 20, 2022 in Awards Every year, the ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC) and the EATCS Symposium on Distributed Computing (DISC) award the Edsger W. Dijkstra Prize in Distributed Computing to distinguished papers that have significantly impacted distributed computing's theory or practice. In 2022, Professor Maurice Herlihy of Brown CS and his collaborators have won the award, the Head of the Dijkstra Prize Committee writes, "for providing the first general approach to memory reclamation in nonblocking data structures, with significant impact both in research and practice". read more » Malte Schwarzkopf's Innovative Teaching Earns A Wriston Fellowship For Privacy-Aware Programming Research Posted by Jesse Polhemus on April 18, 2022 in Awards, Socially Responsible Computing Brown University's Henry Merritt Wriston Fellowship is awarded each year to regular untenured members of the faculty who have achieved a record of excellence in teaching and scholarship during their first years at Brown. This year's winner, chosen by a faculty committee, is Professor Malte Schwarzkopf of Brown CS. The honor includes a semester of leave on special assignment at full compensation. read more » Kuang-Chen Lu, Ben Greenman, And Shriram Krishnamurthi Win The <Programming> Editors' Choice Award Posted by Jesse Polhemus on April 6, 2022 in Awards New research ("Types for Tables: A Language Design Benchmark") by Brown CS PhD student Kuang-Chen Lu, Postdoctoral Research Associate Benjamin Greenman, and Professor Shriram Krishnamurthi has won the annual Editors’ Choice Award for Volume 6 of The Art, Science, and Engineering of Programming, popularly known as <Programming>. read more » Rhea Goyal And Eliot Laidlaw Win The Randy F. Pausch Computer Science Undergraduate Summer Research Award Posted by Jesse Polhemus on April 4, 2022 in Awards The Randy F. Pausch '82 Computer Science Undergraduate Summer Research Award, given this year to Rhea Goyal and Eliot Laidlaw to support their work with Brown CS Professors Malte Schwarzkopf and James Tompkin, respectively, recognizes strong achievement from undergraduate researchers and offers them the opportunity to continue their work over the summer. read more » Brown CS PhD Student And Staff Member Shaun Wallace Wins A UserTesting Illumi Award Posted by Jesse Polhemus on March 31, 2022 in Awards New research co-authored by Shaun Wallace, a Brown CS PhD student and Technical Staff member, has recently won a UserTesting Illumi Award. UserTesting is one of the world's leading human insight platforms. They created the award to inspire the world to think about human insights as a key ingredient for customer experience excellence, product and marketing innovation, and team success. read more » Srinath Sridhar Wins An NSF CAREER Award For Robotic Perception Of Human Physical Skills Posted by Jesse Polhemus on March 30, 2022 in Awards "Everyday human activities," says Brown CS Professor Srinath Sridhar, "are impressive feats of physical intelligence – from careful placement of feet to avoid obstacles when walking to the precise and highly coordinated movement of fingers to type a sentence. Robots with even a fraction of human physical intelligence could revolutionize lives by automating repetitive tasks. Despite advances, however, robots with such physical abilities remain elusive." But not forever, and Srinath has just received a National Science Foundation (NSF) CAREER Award that will take a step toward these more capable robots. CAREER Awards are given in support of outstanding junior faculty … read more » Brown CS Alum David Abel Is A Joint AAAI/ACM SIGAI Doctoral Dissertation Award Runner-Up Posted by Jesse Polhemus on March 21, 2022 in Awards The Association for the Advancement for Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) is a nonprofit scientific society devoted to advancing the scientific understanding of the mechanisms underlying thought and intelligent behavior and their embodiment in machines, and ACM SIGAI is the Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on Artificial Intelligence. Working in concert, they present the Joint AAAI/ACM SIGAI Doctoral Dissertation Award annually to recognize and encourage superior research and writing by doctoral candidates in artificial intelligence, and Brown CS alum David Abel has just been announced as one of only two runners-up for the 2020 prize. read more » Page 1 of 19 next » Computer Science at Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912 USA Phone: 401-863-7600 Map & Directions / Contact Us Sign In