Navigation Skip to Content <a portlet with a message goes here> AXESS Axess is a consolidated online platform used by the Stanford community to access information and record transactions related to: Academic Advising, Teaching and Grading Employment Student Enrollment and Financials Training Workflow-Enabled Administrative Processes Axess is available to current Stanford community members and affiliates as follows: Advisors Employees (including all faculty, staff, student, and contingent employees) Faculty Instructors (including authorized instructor proxies) Postdoctoral Scholars Students (including incoming students, students on leave, and former students who have been active within the past five years) Training (STARS) Users Authorized PeopleSoft HR/SA Users Guests may use Axess functions available from the login page to: Check the status of an active undergraduate admissions application (application email address required) Login to Stanford ePay if they have been designated as an authorized payer on a student account (secure ePay login required) Search for academic classes Logging in to Axess Your SUNet ID and password are required each time you use Axess. For your personal information to remain secure, it is vital that you not share your SUNet ID password with anyone. Never authorize anyone to use Axess on your behalf. It is a violation of University policy to misrepresent yourself, and you may lose student privileges or be subject to disciplinary action if you use another individual's SUNet ID password, or if you deliberately provide false information in Axess. Hours of Availability Axess is generally available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. RECOMMENDED BROWSER VERSIONS FOR AXESS Browsers | Internet Explorer 8 or above Firefox & Chrome 17 or above Safari 5 or above Welcome Axess Branding 2020 AXESS What is Axess? Get Help Tips What is Axess? × Axess is a consolidated online platform used by the Stanford community to access information and record transactions related to: Academic Advising, Teaching and Grading Employment Student Enrollment and Financials Training Workflow-Enabled Administrative Processes Axess is available to current Stanford community members and affiliates as follow: Advisors Employees (including all faculty, staff, student, and contingent employees) Faculty Instructors (including authorized instructor proxies) Postdoctoral Scholars Students (including incoming students, students on leave, and former students who have been active within the past five years) Training (STARS) Users Authorized PeopleSoft HR/SA Users Guests may use Axess functions available from the login page to: Login to Stanford ePay if they have been designated as an authorized payer on a student account (secure ePay login required) Logging in to Axess Your SUNet ID and password are required each time you use Axess. For your personal information to remain secure, it is vital that you not share your SUNet ID password with anyone. Never authorize anyone to use Axess on your behalf. It is a violation of University policy to misrepresent yourself, and you may lose student privileges or be subject to disciplinary action if you use another individual's SUNet ID password, or if you deliberately provide false information in Axess. Hours of Availability Axess is generally available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Login Content 2020 Log In Pay BillParents & Authorized Payers Hidden EMPLOYEE EXTERNAL LINKS Administrative Guide Benefits Faculty & Staff Help Center Parking & Transportation Services Stanford Accounts Stanford Directory StanfordYou University Human Resources University IT ACADEMIC EXTERNAL LINKS Explore Courses Order IT Financial Aid Office Student Services Center University Bulletin Registrar's Office Housing and Dining Vaden Health Center AXESS HELP Help Ticket Tips for Using Axess Report Accessibility Issues LEGAL Compliance Helpline SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Emergency Info © Stanford University, Stanford California 94305. Copyright Complaints Trademark Notice © Stanford University, Stanford California 94305. Copyright Complaints Trademark Notice PSAgreement Axess Sidebar Help text for a bubble test This can be styled ANY WAY that you want (and contain anything that you like!)