Skip to main content COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quicklinks Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Badge Catalog Badge Program Enrollment Instructions Frequently Asked Questions Faculty Badge Information Professional Development Contract Training Community Education Contact Academic Calendar Apply Now! Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu AcademicsAdmissionsStudent LifeAthleticsAboutApply Now Badge Catalog Badge Program Professional Development Contract Training Community Education Contact WSU Workforce Education and Badge Programs In This Section WSU Workforce Education and Badge Programs Badge Program Claiming your Badge Community Education Contact Contract Training Enrollment Instructions Faculty Badge Information FAQs for Graduate Badges Find out about the many career-relevant programs the University offers. Find out more The Office for Workforce, Professional and Community Education (WPCE) is your link to University workforce training and professional development programs. The WPCE can provide information regarding the many career-relevant academic programs and certifications the University offers. Need a workforce prepared to compete in a global society? The WPCE works with employers to develop customized training tailored to meet your organization’s needs in regards to content, schedule and training location. The WPCE also offers numerous conferences and workshops that enhance job skills and meet state and national requirements for professional relicensure. Browse our training calendar and catalog to find a program that fits your professional and personal learning needs. If you do not see a class you are looking for, please contact us. 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 987-3456 Request Info Visit Apply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions facebook twitter instagram youtube Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself. Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & Friends Give to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Policy Campus Safety Accessibility WSU Public Information site Website Support Settlement Info KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment.