Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information International Students Visiting International Students Programs Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students As part of Barnard College’s broad initiative to internationalize its campus, the College has created the Visiting International Students Program (VISP) for spring semesters in residence at our campus in New York City. Through a limited number of collaborative relationships with international universities, our partners send cohorts of 3-12 undergraduate students to Barnard to spend the spring semester as full-time visiting students. VISP students are fully integrated into the Barnard College academic and co-curricular community, gaining a broad understanding of how liberal arts institutions in the United States function, exploring the American model of undergraduate education, and studying and researching with Barnard and Columbia University’s world-class faculty, while also contributing to the internationalization of the student body. Why Barnard? Why New York? On November 22, 1890 in commemoration of Barnard’s first anniversary, Columbia President Seth Low made the following commentary in the New York Times: “Part of one's education is in the atmosphere of the place in which he studies,” he said, “and no one can be indifferent to the inspiration which comes from the full life of a great community like New York.” By immersing visiting international students into life at Barnard, at Columbia, and in New York City, we hope to inspire them, as well as our own students, and to encourage our students as well as those from all partner institutions to "flourish in different cultural surroundings in an increasingly inter-connected world." (From Barnard's mission statement) In the words of Lisa de Waal, a VISP student from the University of Cape Town, Spring 2011: "From E.B. White’s love letter to New York, called Here is New York: 'There are roughly three New Yorks. There is, first, the New York of the man or woman who was born here, who takes the city for granted and accepts its size and its turbulence as natural and inevitable. Second, there is the New York of the commuter – the city that is devoured by locusts each day and spat out each night. Third, there is the New York of the person who was born somewhere else and came in quest of something. Of these three trembling cities the greatest is the last – the city of final destination, the city that is a goal.' Now, we belong to the third kind of New York ‘settler’. Each and every one of us came here with personal goals that we hoped to achieve and with dreams of what this city had in store for us. We can proudly say that we’ve braved the icy cold New York winter; we’ve mastered the art of hailing a cab, catching a bus, and navigating the subway system; and we’ve slaved over numerous papers, but above all, we’ve truly given this experience, this incredible opportunity, all we’ve got - which I think is the greatest achievement of all." Apply to VISP The Visiting International Student Program is open only to students who are nominated by our partner Beijing Foreign Studies University Beijing Normal University China Foreign Affairs University Collegio Nuovo, Università di Pavia Ewha Woman's University SciencesPo Shanghai International Studies University Trinity College Dublin Universitat Pompeu Fabra University of Copenhagen in partnership with the Danish Institute for Study Abroad University of Edinburgh University of Melbourne University of New South Wales University of Oslo University of Trento Yonsei University: Underwood International College Interested students from these colleges and universities should contact their study abroad office for more information. The application deadline is March 15 for the full academic year and September 15 for the spring semester only. Students will be notified of admission after May 1 (full academic year)and October 15 (spring semester only). Requirements for admission Applicants must have a minimum TOEFL score of at least 600 (250 computer test; 100 internet-based test) or a minimum IELTS score of 7.0. TOEFL/IELTS scores must reach Barnard by September 15, prior to the semester of enrollment. Should an applicant not meet these minimum requirements, her application will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Students must also have sufficient academic preparation for the courses they wish to pursue at Barnard. Students must have completed at least one year of higher education at their home institution. Application Once they are nominated by their home schools, students should submit their application materials, outlined below. A completed application includes the following documents: VISP Application Cover Sheet A Curriculum Vitae; An essay describing why you wish to spend the spring semester at Barnard College (500 words or less); A copy of the identification page of your passport; An official TOEFL or IELTS Score Report (for non-native English speakers only); An official university transcript; A high school transcript (optional); Two (2) letters of recommendation from university professors; Once students are notified of admission, they will receive information on how to request a DS-2019 to apply for a J-1 visa. Students will submit: The DS-2019 Request Form (see link on the right) Documentation of funding* . *Please check with your home university coordinator for the total amount of funds necessary to apply for your DS-2019. Program dates for Spring 2019 Student arrival and housing check-in: January 15th Student departure and housing check-out: May 17th Costs for Spring 2022 Tuition For more information, please contact your home institution coordinator or email visp-students@barnard.edu. Insurance All VISP students are required to purchase medical insurance in accordance with Barnard policy and visa regulations. This comprehensive insurance will be billed automatically to each student. You will receive information on insurance as part of your Acceptance Packet. Room and Board All VISP students are required to live on-campus and select a meal plan. Accommodation: Please visit Barnard's Residential Life & Housing website to see the current housing options and rates. Questions about room selection and living in the residence halls should be directed to the Residential Life and Housing Office via phone 212-854-65561, email: ;housing@barnard.edu, or Skype: BarnardResLife. Board: Please visit the Bursar's website to see the meal plan options. Submit meal plan contracts and direct all meal plan questions to the Bursar's Office at bursar@barnard.edu. Full-Year Exchanges Barnard has agreements with the Institut d'Etudes Politiques ("Sciences Po") in France, The University of Edinburgh in Scotland, and University of New South Wales ("UNSW") in Australia which allow international students to study at Barnard for an entire academic year. If you are a student currently enrolled in one of these institutions and are interested in studying at Barnard for a full year, please contact the study abroad/away office at your home institution. Acceptance to VISP Preparing for your semester at Barnard Once you are accepted to VISP, you will receive an email from the Office of International and Intercultural Student Programs with information on the visa application process. You will also receive your acceptance packet, which includes required forms and information on: housing meal plans medical forms and insurance setting up your Barnard email account what to bring arrival information and much more. Please use this simplified "To Do List" below as a guide to help you prepare for your semester at Barnard. December 1 - Payment due IN FULL December 3 - Submit required health information forms As soon as possible - Activate your myBarnard/email; activate UNI; submit ID photo; complete online forms via myBarnard As soon as possible - Submit your flight information online January 15Move-in to your residence hall January 15NSOP (New Student Orientation Program) begins Choosing courses for your VISP semester You will not register for courses until you arrive on campus in January. Courses which VISP students are eligible to take while at Barnard include: Courses designated BC, C, R, V, and W Courses numbered from 1000 through 4999 VISP students are not eligible to take classes in Journalism, Law, Engineering (except for "The Art of Engineering"), and graduate-level courses (coded GR or coded 6000 0r higher) Students may not register for more than two Business courses Please note that you are welcome to search for courses but you should plan to work closely with your academic advisor during Orientation to put together an appropriate program. The Columbia online catalog includes courses from Columbia, Barnard, and even some graduate schools. Remember, undergraduate students may not enroll in graduate school courses. Please review our Frequently Asked Questions for even more helpful information as you prepare for your semester at Barnard. Resources and Student Services VISP-Specific Resources When they first arrive on campus, VISP students will participate in a special track of Barnard’s New Student Orientation Program that will integrate them into campus life, introduce them to other new students at Barnard and also address concerns and questions specific to VISP. The VISP Extended Orientation Program follows Barnard’s general New Student Orientation Program, adding additional sessions throughout the spring semester to help VISP students adjust to life at Barnard. These events include: Welcome meeting specifically for VISP students Individual Advising Appointments with a faculty member or academic dean Sessions on American Culture, Culture Shock, American Slang and Colloquial English Sessions on Public Speaking, Writing Papers, Study Skills Barnard Reach Out (BRO)— VISP students will be eligible to participate in a variety of community service projects on the final day of NSOP. This is a great way to start becoming familiar with various neighborhoods in New York City, to get to know other visiting students, and to meet other Barnard students and faculty/staff. The program is modeled on Barnard’s well-known programs for first-year and transfer students during fall Orientation. Prior to coming to Barnard, VISP students will be matched with a Visiting International Student Ambassador (VISA), a current Barnard student interested in introducing VISP students to the Barnard campus, to the University, and to New York. Ambassadors will be matched for the entire semester, and are available to the incoming students before the semester begins, to answer questions and give advice. All VISP students will also be assigned a full-time faculty member to assist them in choosing and signing up for courses when they arrive. All VISP students are eligible to take an American Language Course through Columbia’s ALP. Placement will be determined upon arrival; depending on TOEFL/IELTS scores, some students may be required to take a course through ALP. Throughout the semester, VISP students will have the option of participating in: Monthly food and cultural festivals sponsored by VISP students from different countries, in collaboration with various Barnard offices and student cultural groups Sporting/Cultural Events on and off-campus And much more! General Campus Resources VISP students have access to the same services and support as all Barnard students, including but not limited to: Academic Support Services: Academic support is available to all VISP students via the Academic Support Services Center. Computing and Email at Barnard Honor Code Disability Services Primary Care Health Services Counseling Services Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program (ASAP) Well-Woman Student Life New Student Orientation Program Apply for your J-1 Student Visa The I-20/DS-2019 document will enable you to secure your F-1 or J-1 visa for study at Barnard. The Application for I-20/DS-2019 is a fillable form. Please see our detailed instructions on how to qualify for an I-20/DS-2019. A complete application must include: Your I-20 Request Form Copy of your passport photo page Financial documentation Sponsor's Affidavit of Support Form (if applicable) F-1 Transfer Verification Form (if applicable) You must email your completed applications as one file in PDF format to: IISP@barnard.edu. Once your I-20 request has been approved, we will mail the I-20 to you via express mail. You will then need to make an appointment with your nearest American embassy or consulate to apply for your F-1 student visa. Once you've read the instructions carefully, you may discover that you need to submit the forms below in addition to the I-20 request form posted above. The forms below are not fillable online, so you will need to download them, fill them out, and submit them via email with your application. F1 Transfer Certification: Please submit this form ONLY IF you attended another U.S. secondary school or U.S. college/university within the last six months. Dependent Information: Please submit this form ONLY IF you plan to bring a spouse and/or children with you. Sponsor’s Affidavit of Free Room and Board in the New York City Metropolitan Area: Please submit this form ONLY IF you will be sponsored for free room and board. Sponsor’s Affidavit of Support Form: Please submit this form ONLY IF you have a sponsor (parent or relative) supporting you financially. Each sponsor must complete a separate Affidavit of Support Form. Questions about these forms may be directed to Office of International & Intercultural Student Programs via email at iisp@barnard.edu or by phone at 212-854-1777. Remember, your application should be submitted as one file in PDF format Frequently Asked Questions Click here for a list of frequently asked questions about VISP. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262