Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Residential Life & Housing > Residence Hall Handook Fire Safety HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Policies Procedures Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Pursuant to New York State Law, New York City Fire Code and Local Law 10, this Fire Safety Plan is made available to all residential students. Please take the time to read through it carefully. It contains valuable information concerning the residence halls where you live and spend time visiting friends, as well as what to do in a fire emergency. NY City Local Law 10 / NYS Kerry Rose Fire Sprinkler Notification Act 2013 / Building Fire Safety Information (PDF) List of evacuation points for the residence halls and campus buildings This Fire Safety plan is intended to help you and the occupants of or guests in your room or suite protect yourselves in the event of fire. Please take the time to read this fire safety plan and discuss it with the members and guests of your room or suite. Fire prevention, preparedness, and awareness can save your life! This fire safety plan contains: Basic fire prevention and fire preparedness measures that will reduce the risk of fire and maximize your safety in the event of a fire. Basic information about your building, including the type of construction, the different ways of exiting the building, and the types of fire safety systems it may have. Emergency fire safety and evacuation instructions in the event of fire in your building. IN THE EVENT OF A FIRE, TRANSMIT AN ALARM FROM THE NEAREST FIRE ALARM BOX AND CALL COMMUNITY SAFETY AT 212-854-6666. Building Information Building Construction Residential buildings built before 1968 are generally classified either as "fireproof" or "non-fireproof." Residential buildings built in or after 1968 are generally classified either as "combustible" or "non-combustible." The type of building construction generally depends on the size and height of the building. A "non-combustible" or "fireproof" building is a building whose structural components are constructed of materials that do not burn or are resistant to fire and therefore will not contribute to the spread of the fire. In such buildings, fires are more likely to be contained in the room, suite or space in which they start and less likely to spread inside the building walls of other rooms, suites and floors. THIS DOES NOT MEAN THAT THE BUILDING IS IMMUNE TO FIRE. While the structural components of the building may not catch fire, all of the contents of the building (including furniture, carpeting, wood floors, decorations and personal belongings) may catch on fire and generate flame, heat and large amounts of smoke, which can travel throughout the building, especially if rooms, suites or stairwell doors are left open. A "combustible" or "non-fireproof" building has structural components that will burn if exposed to fire and can contribute to the spread of the fire. In such buildings, the fire can spread inside the building walls to other rooms and floors. The burning contents of the building can also create flames, heat and smoke that can be fatal. CHECK THE PDF LINKED ABOVE TO SEE WHAT TYPE OF BUILDING YOU LIVE IN! Means of Egress All residential buildings have at least one means of egress (way of exiting the building), and most have at least two. There are several different types of egress: Interior Stairs: All buildings have stairs leading to the street level. These stairs may be unenclosed or enclosed. Unenclosed stairwells (stairs that are not separated from the hallways by walls and doors) do not prevent the spread of flame, heat and smoke. Since flame, heat and smoke generally rise, unenclosed stairwell may not ensure safe egress in the event of a fire on a lower floor. Enclosed stairs are more likely to permit safe egress from the building, if the doors are kept closed. It is important to become familiar with the means of egress available in your building. Exterior Stairs: Some buildings provide access to the living spaces by means of stairs and corridors that are outdoors. The fact that they are out doors and do not trap heat and smoke enhance their safety in the event of a fire provided that they are not obstructed. Fire Tower Stairs: These are generally enclosed stairwells in a "tower" separated from the building by air shafts open to the outside. The open air shafts allow heat and smoke to escape from the building. Fire Escapes: Many older buildings are equipped with a fire escape on the outside of the building, which is accessed through a window or balcony. Fire escapes are considered a secondary or alternative means of egress. They are to be used if the primary means of egress (stairwells) cannot be safely used to exit the building because they are obstructed by flame, heat, or smoke. Exits: Most buildings have more than one exit. In addition to the main entrance to the building, there may be separate side exits, rear exits, basement exits, roof exits and exits to the street from stairwells. Some of these exits may have alarms. Not all of these exits may lead to the street. Roof exits may or may not allow access to adjoining buildings. BE SURE TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THE DIFFERENT MEANS OF EGRESS FROM YOUR BUILDING. List of evacuation points for the residence halls and campus buildings Fire Sprinkler Systems A fire sprinkler system is a system of pipes and sprinkler heads that when triggered by the heat of a fire automatically discharges water that extinguishes the fire. The sprinkler system will continue to discharge water until it is turned off. When a sprinkler system activates, an alarm is sounded. Sprinkler systems are very effective at preventing fire from spreading beyond the room in which it starts. However, the fire may still generate smoke which can travel throughout the building. Residential buildings are generally not required to have fire sprinkler systems. Some residential buildings are equipped with sprinkler systems, but only in compactor chutes, specific rooms or boiler rooms. All apartment buildings constructed or substantially renovated after March 1999 will be required by law to be equipped with fire sprinkler systems throughout the building. Interior Fire Alarm Systems Some residential buildings are equipped with interior fire alarm systems that are designed to warn building occupants of a fire in the building. Interior fire alarm systems generally consist of a panel located in a lobby or basement, with a manual pull station located near the main entrance and by each stairwell door. Interior fire alarm systems are usually manually activated and do not automatically transmit a signal to the Fire Department, so a telephone call must still be made to 911 or the Fire Department Dispatcher. Do not assume that the Fire Department has been notified because you hear a fire alarm or smoke detector sounding in the building. Barnard College Residence Halls signal the Fire Department via Central Station. Fire Emergency Information Basic Fire Prevention & Preparedness Measures Smoking is prohibited; this applies in all college-owned or operated student residences and all academic and administrative buildings. Outdoor smoking is not permitted within the confines of the campus. For those who go outside the perimeter to smoke, we ask that you maintain a minimum distance of 25 feet from any Barnard building and remain mindful of your proximity to building windows and to those passing by. Students will be held accountable for violation of this policy, and the minimum sanction for this violation includes (but is not limited to) a meeting with your Associate Director (or designee), along with a Letter of Warning or educational sanction. Cigarettes that are carelessly handled or discarded are the leading cause of fire deaths. If you are smoking in a location not on campus, be sure to: Never smoke in bed or when you are drowsy. Be especially careful when smoking on a sofa or other "stuffed" furniture. Extinguish every cigarette in an ashtray that is deep and won't tip over. Never leave a lit or smoldering cigarette on furniture. Every student's room is equipped with at least one smoke detector. Check it periodically to make sure it is working by pressing the test button. Whenever a smoke detector chirps to signal that its battery is low or that it has a malfunction, notify Facilities Services to replace the battery or repair the smoke detector. Do not leave cooking food unattended whether it is on the stove, in the oven or in a microwave. Keep stove tops clean and free of flammable items. Routinely check your kitchen to ensure that your oven is turned off before going to bed. Never overload electrical outlets. Replace any electrical cord that is cracked or frayed. Never run extension cords under rugs. Use only UL-listed power strips. Keep all doorways and windows leading to fire escapes free from any type of obstruction. Report any obstruction or accumulations of rubbish in the hallways, stairwells, fire escapes or other means of egress to the Facilities Services Department immediately at 212-854-2041. Familiarize yourself with the operations of any window gate in your living area. If you have one, check to see that the window gate operates smoothly. Report any window gates that do not open immediately by notifying your RA and submitting a Facilities work order online. Become familiar with the locations of stairwells, fire escapes and ALL other means of egress. In addition, make sure you know where the fire alarm pull boxes are located. Prepare an emergency escape route to use in the event of a fire in the building. Include your room or suitemate and choose a meeting place a safe distance from your building where you should all meet in case you get separated during a fire evacuation. You must evacuate the building when a fire alarm sounds, unless it has been clearly advised to be a testing of the fire alarm system. Fresh cut decorative greens, such as Christmas trees and holiday wreaths are prohibited. Please refer to page 21 of this Handbook for additional information regarding holiday decorations. NEVER tamper with fire extinguishers, smoke detectors or any other type of life-safety equipment. Tips for Safe Cooking Never leave cooking food unattended! Turn handles to the center of the stove to prevent accidental spills Never use water on a grease fire, use a lid to smother a pan fire Never try to remove or carry a pan that is on fire Use fireproof potholders, not a towel Avoid grease buildup and clean up spills, they can easily cause a fire Keep paper products away from the stove Know where the nearest fire extinguisher is located and how to use it Emergency Fire Safety & Evacuation Instructions In the event of a fire, follow the directions of Fire Department and Community Safety personnel. If no first responders are on the scene and there is an emergency situation, you may be required to decide on a course of action to protect yourself and the other members of your room or suite. This Fire Safety Plan is intended to assist you in selecting the safest course of action in such an emergency. No Fire Safety Plan can account for all possible factors and changing conditions, so you may have to decide the safest course of action under the circumstances. List of evacuation points for the residence halls and campus buildings General Emergency Fire Safety Instructions Stay calm. Do not panic. Notify Community Safety as soon as possible (212-854-6666). Emergency personnel will be on the scene of a fire within minutes of receiving an alarm. Know the location of the nearest fire alarm pull boxes. Flames, heat and smoke rise, generally a fire on a floor below your room or suite presents a greater threat to your safety than a fire on a floor above you. Do not overestimate your ability to put out a fire. Most fires cannot be easily or safely extinguished. Do not attempt to put the fire out once it begins to quickly spread. If you attempt to put a fire out, make sure you have a clear path of retreat from the room. Exit the building using stairs only and NEVER use the elevator because it could stop between floors or take you to where the fire is. Close doors as you exit each space, to confine the fire. Heat, smoke and gases emitted by burning materials can quickly choke you. If you are in heavy smoke, get down on the floor and crawl. Take short breaths through your nose. If your clothes catch fire, don't run – STOP, DROP and ROLL. Stop where you are, drop to the ground, cover your faced with your hands to protect your face and lungs and roll over as many times as necessary to smother the flames. Evacuation Instructions for All Building Types Feel your room or suite door and doorknob for heat. If they are not hot, open the door slightly and check the hallway for smoke, heat or fire. Exit your room, suite and building if you can safely do so, via the exit closest to you. Close but do NOT lock the door to your room and suite and leave the area. If the fire is in an adjacent area, close the door to that location as well, if it is safe to do so. If they are conveniently located, grab your keys and shoes (and coat, if applicable) on the way out. As you head for the closest exit, yell for others to evacuate and bang on the doors as you walk past them. You do not want to remain in the space to wait for others, but do your best to notify others on your way out. NEVER use the elevator to evacuate. The elevator and elevator shaft may catch on fire, the elevator may stop operating, or the elevator may take you to the location of the fire. If the hallway or stairwell is not safe because of smoke, heat, or fire, and you have access to a fire escape; use it to exit the building. Proceed cautiously on the fire escape. If you cannot use the stairs or fire escape, call Community Safety and inform them of your location including building, floor, room or suite number and the number of people with you. Close the door to the room you are in and place a wet towel under the door to prevent smoke from getting into the room. If conditions in the room or suite seem life-threatening, open a window and wave a towel or sheet to attract the attention of emergency personnel. Meet the members of your room or suite at a predetermined location outside the building. Notify responding firefighters (or appropriate College staff) if anyone is unaccounted for. List of evacuation points for the residence halls and campus buildings Using a Portable Fire Extinguisher Before you begin to extinguish a small fire be sure the building's fire alarm has been activated and help is on the way. The fire should be confined to a small area with no risk of spreading beyond the immediate space. In addition, it should not pose a danger to your safety. Remember the 30 second rule: If you can't extinguish the fire within 30 seconds or with one fire extinguisher... GET OUT!! How do you know what kind of extinguisher should be used? Follow this simple guide: Type of Extinguisher Use On ABC [Multi-purpose dry chemical] Wood, paper, trash, liquid, electrical [class ABC fires] Water Extinguisher Wood, paper, trash [Class A fires] CO2 Extinguisher Liquid and electrical [Class A and B fires] P.A.S.S. (Pull / Aim / Squeeze / Sweep) P PULL THE PIN at the top of the extinguisher. The pin releases a locking mechanism and will allow you to discharge the extinguisher. A AIM AT THE BASE OF THE FIRE, not the flames. This is important in order to put out the fire, you must extinguish the fuel. S SQUEEZE THE LEVER SLOWLY. This will release the extinguishing agent in the extinguisher. If the handle is released, the discharge will stop. S SWEEP FROM SIDE TO SIDE. Using a sweeping motion, move the fire extinguisher back and forth until the fire is completely out. Operate the extinguisher from a safe distance, several feet away, and then move towards the fire once it starts to diminish. Be sure to read the instructions on your fire extinguisher. Different fire extinguishers recommend operating them from different distances Prohibited Items The following items can start fires and are prohibited in the residence halls. For a full list of prohibited items, please visit here Candles and Incense Pizza boxes in ovens Cooking mitts left in the oven Halogen lamps and bulbs of ANY kind Overloaded electrical sockets Electrical wires under carpets Extension cords [you may only use UL Approved power strips] Scarves or other clothing items placed over lamps for mood lighting Hover boards / smart boards / electric skateboards / self-balancing scooters Smoking or tossing cigarette butts out windows Open coil appliances Ultraviolet and/or infrared lamps Toasters and toaster ovens Deep fryers Space heaters of ANY kind Hot plate Flammable liquids If students are found to be in possession of any of these items or other non-approved items (as per the Residence Hall Handbook), the student will be held accountable for the policy violation, and the item(s) will be confiscated and NOT returned to the student. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262