Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Accounts Payable Communications Purchasing Ombuds Office Finance & Operations Mail Services Printing at Barnard Human Resources Accounts Payable Bursar Facilities Contact, Location and Hours Telephone: 212-854-5222 or 212-854-7738 Fax: 212-280-8942 or 646-745-8320 Email: apayable@barnard.edu 1320 Interchurch Center* Monday - Friday, 9:00am-5:00pm *Visitors are not permitted without advance notice. All paperwork may be sent via email or interoffice mail. Forms and Procedures Forms Request for Petty Cash Advance Petty Cash Replenishment or Close Request Request for Travel Advance Travel & Expense Report - Domestic Travel & Expense Report - International Check Request Form W-9 (Request for U.S. Taxpayer ID Number) Direct Deposit Agreement - for Payees with U.S. Bank Accounts Only* *Please contact Accounts Payable (email: apayable@barnard.edu) for assistance with paying international payees (bank accounts outside the United States). The budget transfer request form and the expense correction/request for interdepartmental support form are available on the Budget & Planning page under Important Forms. Purchasing forms are all available from the Purchasing office (A114 Altschul Hall), the Purchasing page, or on the Barnard portal (https://portal.barnard.edu/). Please visit Purchasing for more information. Check Requests For purchases for goods and services (including non-travel-related, out-of-pocket College expenses) over $500, please refer to the Purchasing Procedures. For purchases under $500, please follow the procedures for the Check Request forms below. Check Request Form Procedures In order for a Check Request form to be processed by Accounts Payable, the following documentation must be submitted to Accounts Payable via email (apayable@barnard.edu). Please note the subject as, Check Request: [Payee Name]. The payee is the vendor being paid or the employee being reimbursed. Completed and approved Check Request form (instructions are printed on the form). Actual invoice or receipt* (detailed, showing all items purchased, rather than the credit card receipt) for expenditure. A fully executed agreement (signed by both Barnard and payee) must accompany check requests to pay for services (e.g., speaking engagements) $500.00 or less. The actual invoice or receipt must provide a detailed description of the purchase. Copies of receipts, receipts for credit card transactions, or actual credit card statements will not be accepted in the normal course. In the rare case that an actual receipt is not available, a copy of the receipt or credit card statement will be accepted under the condition that the employee sign a statement attesting that no actual receipt is available and that a duplicate charge will not be submitted. Employees who repeatedly avail themselves of the receipt alternative may have this privilege revoked. Description of the academic or business purpose of the expenditure. * Please tape smaller receipts onto 8 1/2 x 11 sheets of paper, scan to PDF, and combine those sheets with the completed Check Request form into one PDF. Please do not submit receipts in an envelope with the form for reimbursement to Accounts Payable via interoffice mail. Authorization of Check Request Form All Check Request forms must be signed by an authorized employee, generally the budget officer for the department. For out-of-pocket expense reimbursements, the employee's supervisor must approve the Check Request form. For Department Heads, Vice Presidents and the President, the Chief Financial Officer and Vice President for Finance must review the Check Request form. Any issues or concerns regarding these expenses will be discussed with the Chief Operating Officer or the Chief Financial Officer (or with the President with regards to the expenses of the Chief Operating and Finance Officers). When paying outside consultants or a guest lecturer for services, the tax address and either the Social Security number or EIN of the payee must be included. If the payee is an individual or entity Barnard College has not paid before, Accounts Payable needs an IRS form W9 to create a vendor profile for them in their payment system. Payment cannot be processed without a W9 on file. All payments to Barnard College employees (including Barnard student employees) for stipends, honoraria, or extra services to other departments must be paid through Payroll. Please use the payee's legal name on a check request. Please do not use nicknames or preferred names. Digital signatures are currently allowed on check requests, advance requests, and expense reports. Please note Barnard College is tax-exempt; therefore, sales tax paid on goods and services (restaurant meals are an exception) in New York State should never be included in amounts to be paid or reimbursed. However, if a member of the Barnard community purchases items outside of New York State and is charged sales tax, the College will reimburse for those taxes paid. Tax-exempt forms may be requested from either the Purchasing or Accounts Payable departments via email before purchases are made. Deadlines Check Request forms should be submitted on a timely basis to Accounts Payable for processing. Requests for checks are normally processed within ten (10) business days of receipt. All requests for payment of or reimbursement of expenses must be submitted to the Finance & Operations office within the fiscal year the expense was incurred (e.g., expenses incurred between July 1, 2021 and June 30, 2022, or Fiscal Year 2022, must be submitted to Finance by the end-of-fiscal year deadline, July 5, 2022). Travel Expense Reimbursement Policies To request a travel advance, submit a Travel Advance Request Form to the Finance & Operations Office. If you do not use the entire advance, please email Victoria Toro (email: vtoro@barnard.edu) to submit the remainder of the funds (either in cash or a check made payable to Barnard College), along with your expense report, to Finance (now located in The Interchurch Center, suite 1320). If you include receipts that only require partial reimbursement, please give a detailed explanation as to why. Please see Barnard College Expenditure Policy for acceptable travel expenses. Domestic Travel Fill out a Travel & Expense Report Domestic Form*. Please do not neglect to fill in the field titled Overall Business Purpose and include documentation stating the College-related purpose of the trip (e.g., an email confirming conference registration, a flyer with conference information). Please include all receipts for tolls, airfare (if applicable), mass transit, parking, baggage fees, lodging (if applicable; please include the itemized hotel receipt/guest folio), meals consumed, and gas. If you used EZ-Pass, please provide a printout from your EZ-Pass statement. For meals consumed, please submit the itemized restaurant receipt (the receipt showing the food, drinks, and prices of each). If the meal was paid for with a credit or debit card, please also submit the credit card receipt if tip was paid and you would like to be reimbursed for it. Please note we do not accept credit card receipts in lieu of the restaurant receipt without an explanation as to why the restaurant receipt is not available. For mileage reimbursement, please provide a printout from MapQuest, Google Maps, Yahoo! Maps, etc. explaining how far you drove. Current mileage rates are set by the IRS. The 2022 mileage reimbursement rate is 58.5 cents per mile for business miles driven, up from the 2021 mileage reimbursement rate of 56 per mile for business miles driven, and up from the 2020 mileage reimbursement rate of 57.5 cents per mile for business miles driven. Foreign Travel Fill out a Travel & Expense Report International Form*. Please do not neglect to fill in the field titled Overall Business Purpose and include documentation stating the College-related purpose of the trip (e.g., an email confirming conference registration, a flyer with conference information). Please include all receipts for airfare, baggage fees, mass transit/taxis, lodging (please include the itemized hotel receipt/guest folio), and meals consumed (include tolls, parking, and gas if applicable). Barnard will only reimburse in U.S. dollars, regardless of the currency your expenses were paid in. For cash purchases, please use the rate of exchange for the date of purchase, not what the current rate is at the time of reimbursement. We recommend Oanda.com's currency converter. Please provide documentation as to where you found your rate of exchange (e.g., website, bank, currency exchange, etc.). For credit card purchases, please use the rate of exchange as calculated by your bank/credit card company; you do not need to use the foreign currency worksheet included in the international travel and expense report to calculate the rate of exchange. Please include the original receipts as well as the pertinent pages from your bank/credit card statement showing the charges in USD and note those amounts on the first page of your travel and expense report. If requesting reimbursement for a financial institution charge for using foreign currency, please provide documentation of this charge (bank or credit card statement). *You may also submit your request for travel reimbursement on a Check Request Form if you are requesting reimbursement for nine or fewer expenses. Please tape all smaller receipts onto 8 1/2 x 11 sheets of paper, and combine those sheets with either the Travel & Expense Report or Check Request form into one PDF. Please email the combined PDF to Accounts Payable (email: apayable@barnard.edu) and note the subject line as, Check Request: [Payee Name] or T&E Report: [Payee Name]. Please note the College does not reimburse for gas if one requests reimbursement for mileage. Fuel purchased for private vehicle usage is included in the Federal Mileage Reimbursement Rate. All requests for reimbursement of expenses must be submitted to the Finance & Operations office within ninety (90) days of incurring the expense or within the fiscal year the expense was incurred, whichever is sooner (e.g., expenses incurred between July 1, 2021 and June 30, 2022, or Fiscal Year 2022, must be submitted to Finance by the end-of-fiscal year deadline, July 5, 2022). If you have any questions, please contact the Finance office at 212-854-2010 or via email (vtoro@barnard.edu). Petty Cash Policies on Using a Petty Cash Fund Certain departments are authorized to use a petty cash fund for making small disbursements. Policies on the use of petty cash funds are as follows: The department should maintain the fund in a locked petty cash box, which should be kept in a locked cabinet, desk, or closet. The following items should not be paid from the petty cash fund: Equipment purchase Service payments (e.g., wages, consulting fees) Advances Registration fees and dues A petty cash fund should not be used to cash checks. One person from a department should be designated as the petty cash fund custodian, and cannot draw from the fund without the Department Head's approval. If the employee who established the petty cash fund leaves the College or changes departments, the petty cash account must be closed out and a new one opened. Petty Cash Fund To establish a new petty cash fund, a Request for Petty Cash Advance should be completed and submitted to Victoria Toro in the Finance Office (email: vtoro@barnard.edu) for approval. Petty Cash Replenishment To replenish the fund, a Petty Cash Replenishment or Close Request is prepared for the amount of petty cash spent. The form is then submitted to Victoria Toro (via email: vtoro@barnard.edu) with the actual receipts taped on to 8 1/2 x 11 sheets of paper, and those sheets combined into one PDF with the Petty Cash Replenishment or Close Request form. A check to replenish the petty cash fund will be issued to the petty cash custodian generally within ten (10) business days of receipt of the request. Petty Cash Close To close a petty cash fund, a Petty Cash Replenishment or Close Request needs to be prepared for the amount of petty cash spent. The completed form is then submitted to Victoria Toro in Finance (via email: vtoro@barnard.edu) with the actual receipts. Please also let Victoria know of any unspent/remaining cash, which will need to be turned into the Office of the Bursar (located in 007 Milbank Hall) for deposit. The total of the receipts plus the unspent/remaining cash must equal the amount of the petty cash advance(s) issued. Please note Barnard College is tax-exempt; therefore, sales tax paid on goods and services (restaurant meals are an exception) in New York State should never be included in amounts to be reimbursed. However, if a member of the Barnard community purchases items outside of New York State and is charged sales tax, the College will reimburse for those taxes paid. Tax-exempt forms may be requested from either the Purchasing or Accounts Payable departments via email before purchases are made. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262