Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Human Resources Benefits About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Barnard provides a broad range of excellent benefits to its faculty and staff. In addition to traditional health, welfare and time-off benefits, we offer ways for our employees to save for the future, fund education opportunities for themselves and their children, and prepare for retirement. Our Senior HR Manager for Benefits/Work Life is available to answer your questions and concerns regarding any of Barnard’s benefits. To learn more about benefits, including rates, please log in to the portal.barnard.edu. Below, you will find an overview of the benefits available to our faculty and staff. Benefits for Administrative Positions With the exception of retirement and certain government-mandated items, most benefits are available to full-time administrators only. In addition benefits vary for 9, 10, and 12 month full-time administrators. This web page outlines the full range of benefits. The Office of Human Resources should be contacted for information about which of these programs may apply in any given circumstance. Health Care The complete Barnard health care program for administrators has four components: Medical Services, Prescriptions, Dental, and Flexible Spending Accounts. Health care benefits begin on the first day of the month following 30 days of employment. Medical Services Barnard offers three benefit plans through Cigna Health Plan. The plans are identified as Plan A, Plan B, and Plan C. Plan A and Plan B cover the same services with some variations in deductibles and out-of-pocket expenses. Plan C is a High Deductible Health Plan (“HDHP”). For a review of each plan click on the name below. CIGNA Plan A CIGNA Plan B CIGNA Plan C Prescriptions All Cigna Plans offer pharmacy prescription programs. A mail order program is also available for maintenance drugs under all medical plan options. Dental Aetna Freedom of Choice (FOC): Includes the Dental Maintenance Organization (DMO) and Preferred Provider Organization (PPO), which provides access to in and out‐of‐network dentists. While an out‐of‐network benefit (similar to an indemnity option) is available, the greatest out‐of‐pocket savings will result if dentists in either the DMO or the PPO networks are used. The plan allows employees to switch monthly from the DMO to the Preferred Provider Organization (PPO). For review of each plan, click on the name below Aetna DMO Aetna PPO Vision EyeMed is Barnard's vision coverage provider which provides an annual eye exam at no cost and an allowance for frames or contacts once every 12 months. Coverage for non-network services are limited. Flexible Spending Accounts The Barnard College Flexible Spending Account enables full-time, participating employees to pay predictable, eligible health care expenses or expenses related to the care of a dependent child or adult with pre-tax dollars, lowering your taxable income and saving you money. When electing an FSA, estimate your expenses carefully, as balances up to a maximum of $500 in unused funds will automatically be rolled over in the next plan year. Allegiance Advantage administers the FSA program for Barnard. If you elect an FSA, Allegiance will provide you with a debit card to pay expenses. FSA Options Health FSA: With the Health FSA, you can pay for eligible medical, dental, and vision care expenses for you and your eligible dependents. Note that under recent legislation, over-the-counter medications and menstrual products are eligible as of January 1, 2020. For 2020, you can contribute up to $2,700 per calendar year on a tax-free basis. Limited Purpose FSA: This FSA lets you pay for out-of-pocket dental and vision care expenses only, and is for those who are enrolled in the high-deductible health plan only. For 2020, you can contribute up to $2,700 per calendar year on a tax-free basis. This option is available for Plan C participants only. Dependent Care FSA: This FSA lets you pay for eligible expenses for the care of a dependent child up to age 13 or a dependent adult. You may contribute up to $5,000, based on IRS guidelines. Due to COVID-19 Barnard claims administrators are largely operating on a work from home basis, so participants are encouraged to use the Allegiance member portal or mobile app (search for “Allegiance Advantage” on your mobile device’s app store) to submit claims and ensure timely service. Health Savings Account (HSA) If you’re enrolled in the Barnard High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP), you may contribute to an HSA to cover out of pocket medical expenses today – or save for future expenses. Barnard will make a tax-free contribution to your HSA based on your HDHP election ($1,000 for individual coverage/$2,000 for employee + spouse/DP, employee + child(ren) or family coverage), in addition to any pre-tax contributions you make (up to annual maximums). Unspent funds roll over from year to year and the money remains yours even when you leave the College. CIGNA Bank administers the College HSA account. If you elect an HSA, CIGNA will provide you with a debit card to pay expenses. Changing Your Benefits Per IRS rules, you can only make changes to your benefit elections during the College's annual Open Enrollment period. However, you may make changes to your elections if you experience a qualifying life event during the year. Qualifying life events include but are not limited to birth of a child, adoption, marriage, divorce, loss of existing health coverage, etc Disability and Life Insurance Barnard offers disability benefits and life insurance to help you take care of yourself and provide for your family in the case of loss of income. In addition, employees are covered by workers’ compensation during their employment for work-related incidents causing injury or illness. Short Term Disability Insurance As mandated by the State of New York, Barnard employees are covered by Short Term Disability Insurance through CIGNA. The STD benefit is up to 26 weeks in a 52-consecutive week period due to injury or illness. You do not need to enroll and there is no cost to you. Long Term Disability Insurance CIGNA also provides coverage for long-term disability. LTD helps you replace your salary and protect your financial security if you are unable to work due to injury or illness for more than 180 calendar days. This coverage is available after one year of service. However, this waiting period will be waived upon certification of coverage under a group long term total disability plan with the employee’s prior employer if coverage was in effect within 30 days of the Barnard date of hire. Life Insurance Barnard provides eligible employees with free Basic Coverage equal to two times their annual base salary. You are automatically enrolled in this coverage. Employees are covered by a CIGNA group term life policy with an Accidental Death and Dismemberment (AD&D) rider. The most important feature of the AD&D rider is that it provides the beneficiary (ies) double the face amount of the policy if the covered employee dies as a result of an accident. You must designate a beneficiary for your life & AD&D insurance coverage. Workers' Compensation This state-mandated program provides temporary income in the event you experience a work-related injury or illness that prevents you from performing your job. No enrollment is necessary for this coverage. The third-party administrator is Travelers. Any job related injury or illness must be reported immediately to the responsible supervisor, department chair, or the Office of Human Resources. Retirement Plans Barnard College provides two retirement plans: the Basic Retirement Annuity Plan and the Supplemental Retirement Annuity Plan. Both of these plans may be administered by Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA) or Fidelity Investments. Basic Retirement Annuity Eligibility: Contributions to the Basic Retirement Annuity plan are made by Barnard. All eligible Administrative Officers whose positions are classified as Grade Five or above begin participation immediately. Those employees whose positions are classified as Grade Four or below will begin participation on January 1st or July 1st following their two-year anniversary date. Part-time employees who work a minimum of 1,000 hours per year also participate in this plan. Contributions: Employees whose positions are classified as Grade Eight and below, the College makes a contribution equal to 7% of gross annual salary. For those at Grade Nine and above, the College makes a contribution equal to 10% of gross annual salary. Supplemental Retirement Annuity Both full-time and part-time employees may elect to make contributions to a supplemental tax-deferred annuity. These contributions are made pre-tax and require that the employee execute an authorizing 403(b) Plan Election Form, which is available on the myBarnard portal. Employees can elect to contribute any amount up to an allowable maximum set by IRS regulations. There is no waiting period. The plan includes a loan provision. Details are available through the Office of Human Resources. Tuition Assistance Barnard Tuition Reimbursement Program is a great way to enhance your career or pursue a personal academic interest. Employees: All full-time administrative employees are eligible to receive tuition assistance beginning in the first academic semester/quarter following their date of hire at Barnard College. The first year of the tuition benefit is on a reimbursement basis only. Full-time employees may take the number of approved courses per year equal in cost to six Barnard credits. Job related, credit bearing courses or courses applied toward a degree may qualify if taken from an accredited educational institution. Eligibility depends on several factors, including the timing of the employee’s application. Please note, the program will not pay for repeat degrees (i.e a second Associate’s, or Master’s Degree for employees already holding those degree) even if the new degree program is in an unrelated field. The program will pay for subject-specific, job related certificates that build and help to promote advancement with authorization from one's manager. For further information about the program, please contact the Office of Human Resources. As required currently by law, tuition benefits for graduate school in excess of $5,250 per calendar year are considered taxable income to the employee, and taxes will be withheld from the employee’s paycheck when appropriate. Dependents: Eligible dependent children of full-time administrators may receive full undergraduate tuition to Barnard or Columbia for a maximum of eight semesters within six years. In addition, for schools other than Barnard or Columbia, Barnard pays an amount equal to 25% of its own tuition, or up to 100% of the other institution’s tuition, whichever is less, for dependents of full time administrators hired after December 31, 1983. Children of deceased full-time administrators and administrators who retire from the College may also be eligible. Eligibility is for Fall and Spring semesters only. Further information is available through the Office of Human Resources. Paid Time Off Barnard's generous paid time off benefits – including vacation, floating and sick time, holidays and leave for new parents – combined with a number of unpaid leave opportunities support a healthy balance of work and personal responsibilities. Our paid time off includes: Vacation Full-time employees earn two days per month for each full month of service up to a maximum of 24 days per year. Part-time administrators and full-time administrators, who work fewer than twelve months per year, are eligible for vacation accrual on a reduced basis. Full details are available from the Office of Human Resources. Vacation time will be accrued but cannot be taken during the first six months of employment. Further, for full-time, twelve month employees, no more than 24 vacation days may be carried over from one fiscal year (July 1 to June 30) to the next. Any additional unused vacation days will be forfeited. In addition, an employee who resigns, will be paid only for any accrued vacation time up to the allowed carryover and any newly accrued but unused vacation days. If an employee resigns within the first 6 months of employment they will not be eligible for a vacation payout. Holidays Scheduled: Employees receive eleven scheduled holidays per year. These are: New Year’s Day; Martin Luther King, Jr. Day; Memorial Day; Juneteenth; Independence Day; Labor Day; Election Day; Thanksgiving Day; Day After Thanksgiving; Christmas Eve; Christmas Day; and New Year’s Eve. Floating: In addition to scheduled holidays, twelve-month employees receive three floating holidays per year; those hired after January 1st receive two days for the first fiscal year ending June 30th. Nine and ten-month employees receive two floating holidays per year; those hired after January 1st receive one day for the first fiscal year ending June 30th. Part-time employees do not receive Floating Holidays. Floating Holiday time may not be carried over from one fiscal year to the next. An employee who leaves the College will not be paid for any remaining Floating Holiday time. Sick Leave Full-time Administrators working 12 months per year will receive 5 sick days at hire and 10 sick days on the next following July 1. Maximum in the sick bank at any time will be 15 days. Each July 1, the Administrator will receive up to 10 sick days to a bank total not to exceed 15 days. (For example: If at June 30, an employee has 5 days left in the sick bank, 10 days will be added on July 1 for a bank total of 15 days. If at June 30, the employee has 7 days left in the sick bank, 8 days will be added on July 1 for a bank total of 15 days. If at June 30, the employee has 3 days left in the sick bank, 10 days will be added on July 1 for a bank total of 13 days.) Part-time Administrators and those working fewer than 12 months per year receive a pro-rated benefit. There is a Salary Continuation Program available for employees on leave with a serious illness, disability or pregnancy. Commutation Benefit Program The College offers employees the opportunity to use pre-tax dollars to pay certain commuting costs through WageWorks. This program provides you with an online ordering system for transportation and parking. By using this benefit, you can save on your income, Social Security (FICA) taxes by paying for your commuting expenses with pre-tax dollars up to the IRS limit. Orders are made online via the Wage Works website, the purchase price is deducted from your paycheck and your passes/cards are mailed directly to your home. Mandated Benefits In addition to Short Term Disability (discussed above), there are four other mandated programs. These are: Family and Medical Leave The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 requires that eligible employees be given up to 12 weeks of unpaid, job protected leave during any 12 month period for the birth and first-year care of a child; the adoption or foster placement of a child; the serious medical condition of the employee’s spouse, child, or parent; the employee’s own serious medical condition; or for Active Duty or Caregiver Leave. Both the employer and the employee have certain rights under the act. The Office of Human Resources can be contacted for further information. New York State Paid Family Leave The NY State Paid Family Leave (PFL) benefit provides eligible employees a leave with partial wage replacement, job and health benefits protection for these reasons: To bond with a child during the first 12 months following the birth, adoption or fostering of a child; To care for certain family members with a serious health condition; or For qualifying exigencies arising out of a family member’s covered active duty in the military. To be considered an eligible employee, the following criteria apply: Full time employees (20 or more hrs/week) are eligible to participate after working 26 or more consecutive weeks of work. Part time employees (less than 20 hrs/week) are eligible to participate after the 175th day of work. Under NYS law, the amount of paid family leave benefits will be phased in as follows Maximum Benefit within 52-week Period Paid Family Benefit January 1, 2020 10 weeks 60% of the employee’s average weekly salary, up to a cap of 60% of the current Statewide Average Weekly Wage of $1,401.17. The New York PFL benefit is funded entirely through minimal deductions from employee’s paychecks. The New York PFL benefit will run concurrently with leave under the Family Medical Leave Act. Employees may be eligible for a waiver to opt-out of Paid Family Leave benefits and the deduction. An employee has the option to waive if: (1) the employee regularly works 20 hours or more per week but will not work 26 consecutive weeks; or (2) the employee regularly works 20 hours or less per week but will not work 175 days in a 52 consecutive week period. The waiver is optional and revocable. The College’s Paid Family Leave Policy can be found here: Paid Family Leave Policy Social Security Social Security is a federal program of retirement, disability, survivor and health related benefits covering most staff. Contributions to Social Security are shared by the College and the employee. Unemployment Insurance Staff and faculty who become unemployed through no fault of their own and are able and available to work, but unsuccessful in finding employment, may be eligible to receive a weekly benefit. Voluntary Benefits Barnard offers faculty and staff several voluntary benefit packages. Further information is available from the Office of Human Resources. Backup Care: Through Bright Horizons, the College offers discounted Backup Child and Elder Care services for those times when an employee would otherwise miss work to care for a loved one. When regular arrangements fall through unexpectedly. Backup care services include: Child care in-home or at day care centers Elder care services in-home Employee Assistance Program: EAP provides short-term counseling and referral for employees and their families when they are experiencing life challenges. Life challenges include crisis, death, marital trouble, divorce, family problems, financial problems, etc. All benefit-eligible employees and their dependents are able to use the college-sponsored EAP services. Additional services such as legal assistance, financial counseling, and life coaching are available in a limited capacity MetPay: Offers discounted insurance rates for auto and home through Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. New Employees are urged to review and understand their first pay stubs to assure themselves that their elections of benefits have been correctly recorded. Questions may be referred to the Office of Human Resources. More comprehensive information is available on all these matters through the Office of Human Resources. In the event of any discrepancy between this brochure and the underlying plan documents, the underlying documents shall govern. The College may modify benefits at any time without prior notice. Healthcare While Traveling Domestic Travel (including Canada, Mexico and U.S. Possessions) Emergencies: If you are traveling domestically or are in a temporary domestic residence, medical services for medical emergencies and urgent care will be covered as an in-network benefit. International travel (except for Canada, Mexico and U.S. Possessions) Emergencies: If you are traveling or in a temporary residence abroad, medical services for medical emergencies and urgent care will be covered as an in-network benefit. Benefits for Faculty Positions Health Care The complete Barnard health care program for faculty has four components: Medical Services, Prescriptions, Dental, and Flexible Spending Accounts. Health care benefits begin on the first day of the month following 30 days of employment. Medical Services Barnard offers three benefit plans through Cigna Health Plan. The plans are identified as Plan A, Plan B, and Plan C. Plan A and Plan B cover the same services with some variations in deductibles and out-of-pocket expenses. Plan C is a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP). For a review of each plan, click on the name below: CIGNA Plan A CIGNA Plan B CIGNA Plan C Prescriptions All Cigna Plans offer pharmacy prescription programs. A mail order program is also available for maintenance drugs under all medical plan options. Dental Aetna Freedom of Choice (FOC) Includes the Dental Maintenance Organization (DMO) and Preferred Provider Organization (PPO), which provides access to in an out-of-network dentists. While an out-of-network benefit (similar to an indemnity option) is available, the greatest out-of-pocket savings will result if dentists in either the DMO or PPO networks are used. For a review of each plan, click on the name below: Aetna DMO Aetna PPO The plan allows employees to switch monthly from the DMO to the PPO. Vision EyeMed is Barnard's vision coverage provider which provides an annual eye exam at no cost and an allowance for frames or contacts once every 12 months. Coverage fr non-network services are limited. Flexible Spending Accounts The Barnard College Flexible Spending Account enables full-time, participating employees to pay predictable, eligible health care expenses or expenses related to the care of a dependent child or adult with pre-tax dollars, lowering your taxable income and saving you money. When electing an FSA, estimate your expenses carefully. Balances up to a maximum of $500 in unused funds will automatically be rolled over in the next plan year. Allegiance Advantage administers the FSA program for Barnard. If you elect an FSA, Allegiance will provide you with a debit card to pay expenses. FSA Options Health FSA: With the Health FSA, you can pay for eligible medical, dental, and vision care expenses for you and your eligible dependents. Note that under recent legislation, over-the-counter medications and menstrual products are eligible as of January 1, 2020. For 2020, you can contribute up to $2,700 per calendar year on a tax-free basis. Limited Purpose FSA: This FSA lets you pay for out-of-pocket dental and vision care expenses only, and is for those who are enrolled in the high-deductible health plan only. For 2020, you can contribute up to $2,700 per calendar year on a tax-free basis. This option is available for Plan C participants only. Dependent Care FSA: This FSA lets you pay for eligible expenses for the care of a dependent child up to age 13 or a dependent adult. You may contribute up to $5,000 based on IRS guidelines. Due to COVID-19, the Barnard claims administrator is largely operating on a work from home basis, so participants are encouraged to use the Allegiance member portal or moble app (search for "Allegiance Advantage" on you mobile device's app store) to submit claims and ensure timely service. Health Savings Account (HSA) If you're enrolled in the Barnard High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP), you may contribute to an HSA to cover out-of-pocket medical expenses today-or save for future expenses. Barnard will make a tax-free contribution to your HSA based on your HDHP election ($1,00 for individual coverage, $2,000 for employee + spouse/DP, employee + child(dren) or family coverage), in addition to any pre-tax contributions you make (up to annual maximums). Unspent funds roll over from year to year and the money remains yours even when you leave the College. CIGNA Bank administers the College HSA account If you elect and HSA, CIGNA will provide you with a debit card to pay expenses. Changing Your Benefits Per IRS rules, you can only make changes to your benefit elections during the College's annual Open Enrollment period. However, you may make changes to your elections if you experience a qualifying life event during the year. Qualifying life events include but are not limited to birth of a child, adoption, marriage, divorce, loss of existing health coverage, etc. Disability and Life Insurance Barnard offers disability benefits and life insurance to help you take care of yourself and provide for your family in the case of loss of income. In addition, employees are covered by workers’ compensation during their employment for work-related incidents causing injury or illness. Long Term Disability Insurance LTD helps you replace your salary and protect your financial security if you are unable to work due to injury or illness for more than 180 calendar days. CIGNA also provides coverage for long-term disability. This coverage is available after one year of service. However, this waiting period will be waived upon certification of coverage under a group long term total disability plan with the employee’s prior employer if coverage was in effect within 30 days of the Barnard date of hire. Life Insurance Barnard provides eligible faculty with free Basic Coverage equal to two times their annual base salary. You are automatically enrolled in this coverage. Employees are covered by a CIGNA group term life policy with an Accidental Death and Dismemberment (AD&D) rider. The most important feature of the AD&D rider is that it provides the beneficiary(ies) double the face amount of the policy if the covered employee dies as a result of an accident. You must designate a beneficiary for your life & AD&D insurance coverage. Workers' Compensation This state-mandated program provides temporary income in the event you experience a work-related injury or illness that prevents you from performing your job. No enrollment is necessary for this coverage. The third-party administrator is Travelers. Any job related injury or illness must be reported immediately to the responsible supervisor, department chair or the Office of Human Resources. Retirement Plans Barnard College Retirement Plan for Faculty and Staff includes two contribution components: the Basic Retirement Annuity Plan and the Supplemental Retirement Annuity Plan. The plans may be administered by Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA) or Fidelity Investments Basic Retirement Annuity Eligibility: Contributions to the Basic Retirement Annuity plan are made by Barnard. All eligible Faculty members whose positions are ranked as Assistant Professor or above begin participation immediately. Those Faculty members whose positions are ranked below Assistant Professor will begin participation on January 1st or July 1st following their two-year anniversary date. Contributions: For all faculty ranks, with the exception of Full Professor, the College makes a contribution equal to 7% of gross annual salary. For Full Professor, the College makes a contribution equal to 10% of gross annual salary. Supplemental Retirement Annuity Faculty may elect to make contributions to a supplemental tax-deferred annuity. These contributions are made pre-tax and require that the employee execute an authorizing 403(b) Plan Election Form, which is available on the myBarnard portal. Faculty can elect to contribute any amount up to an allowable maximum set by IRS regulations. There is no waiting period. The plan includes a loan provision. Details are available through the Office of Human Resources. Tuition Assistance Dependents: Eligible dependent children of eligible Faculty members may receive full undergraduate tuition to Barnard or Columbia for a maximum of eight semesters within six years. In addition, for schools other than Barnard or Columbia, Barnard pays an amount equal to 25% of its own tuition, or up to 100% of the other institution’s tuition, whichever is less, for dependents of full time administrators hired after December 31, 1983. Children of deceased Faculty members and Faculty who retire from the College may also be eligible. Eligibility is for Fall and Spring semesters only. Further information is available through the Office of Human Resources. Commutation Benefit Program The College offers employees the opportunity to use pre-tax dollars to pay certain commuting costs through WageWorks. This program provides you with an online ordering system for transportation and parking. By using this benefit, you can save on your income, Social Security (FICA) taxes by paying for your commuting expenses with pre-tax dollars up to the IRS limit. Orders are made online via the Wage Works website, the purchase price is deducted from your paycheck and your passes/cards are mailed directly to your home. Mandated Benefits Family and Medical Leave The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 require that Faculty members be given up to 12 weeks of unpaid, job protected leave during any 12 month period for the birth and first-year care of a child; the adoption or foster placement of a child; the serious medical condition of spouse, child, or parent; the Faculty member's own serious medical condition; or for Active Duty or Caregiver Leave. Both the employer and the employee have certain rights under the act. The Office of Human Resources can be contacted for further information. Unemployment Insurance Faculty who become unemployed through no fault of their own and are able and available to work, but unsuccessful in finding employment, may be eligible to receive a weekly benefit. Voluntary Benefits Barnard offers faculty several voluntary benefit packages. Further information is available from the Office of Human Resources. Backup Care: Through Bright Horizons, the College offers discounted Backup Child and Elder Care services when regular arrangements fall through unexpectedly. Backup care services include: child care in-home or at day care centers elder care services in-home Employee Assistance Program: EAP provides short-term counseling and referral for employees and their families when they are experiencing life challenges. Life challenges include crisis, death, marital trouble, divorce, family problems, financial problems, etc. All benefit-eligible employees and their dependents are able to use the college-sponsored EAP services. Additional services such as legal assistance, financial counseling, and life coaching are available in a limited capacity. MetPay: Offers discounted insurance rates for auto and home through Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. New faculty are urged to review and understand their first pay stubs to assure themselves that their elections of benefits have been correctly recorded. Questions may be referred to the Office of Human Resources. More comprehensive information is available on all these matters through the Office of Human Resources. In the event of any discrepancy between this brochure and the underlying plan documents, the underlying documents shall govern. The College may modify benefits at any time without prior notice. Healthcare While Traveling Domestic Travel (Including Canada, Mexico, and U.S. Posessions) Emergencies: If you are traveling domestically or are in a temporary domestic residence, medical services for medical emergencies and urgent care will be covered as an in-network benefit. International Travel (Except for Canada, Mexico and U.S. Posessions) Emergencies: If you are traveling or in a temporary residence abroad, medical services for medical emergencies and urgent care will be covered as an in-network benefit. Benefits for Barnard Contingent Faculty (BCF) Health Care The complete Barnard health care program for faculty has four components: Medical Services, Prescriptions, Dental, and Flexible Spending Accounts. Health care benefits begin on the first day of the month following 30 days of employment. Medical Services Barnard offers one benefit plan through Cigna Health Plan. Plan A provides in and out of network coverage and includes a deductible. For a review of the plan, click on the name below: CIGNA Plan A Prescriptions The Cigna Plan offer pharmacy prescription programs. A mail order program is also available for maintenance drugs. Dental Aetna Freedom of Choice (FOC) Includes the Dental Maintenance Organization (DMO) and Preferred Provider Organization (PPO), which provides access to in an out-of-network dentists. While an out-of-network benefit (similar to an indemnity option) is available, the greatest out-of-pocket savings will result if dentists in either the DMO or PPO networks are used. For a review of each plan, click on the name below: Aetna DMO Aetna PPO The plan allows employees to switch monthly from the DMO to the PPO. Vision EyeMed is Barnard's vision coverage provider which provides an annual eye exam at no cost and an allowance for frames or contacts once every 12 months. Coverage fr non-network services are limited. Flexible Spending Accounts The Barnard College Flexible Spending Account enables full-time, participating employees to pay predictable, eligible health care expenses or expenses related to the care of a dependent child or adult with pre-tax dollars, lowering your taxable income and saving you money. When electing an FSA, estimate your expenses carefully. Balances up to a maximum of $500 in unused funds will automatically be rolled over in the next plan year. Allegiance Advantage administers the FSA program for Barnard. If you elect an FSA, Allegiance will provide you with a debit card to pay expenses. FSA Options Health FSA: With the Health FSA, you can pay for eligible medical, dental, and vision care expenses for you and your eligible dependents. Note that under recent legislation, over-the-counter medications and menstrual products are eligible as of January 1, 2020. For 2020, you can contribute up to $2,700 per calendar year on a tax-free basis. Dependent Care FSA: This FSA lets you pay for eligible expenses for the care of a dependent child up to age 13 or a dependent adult. You may contribute up to $5,000 based on IRS guidelines. Due to COVID-19, the Barnard claims administrator is largely operating on a work from home basis, so participants are encouraged to use the Allegiance member portal or moblie app (search for "Allegiance Advantage" on your mobile device's app store) to submit claims and ensure timely service. Changing Your Benefits Per IRS rules, you can only make changes to your benefit elections during the College's annual Open Enrollment period. However, you may make changes to your elections if you experience a qualifying life event during the year. Qualifying life events include but are not limited to birth of a child, adoption, marriage, divorce, loss of existing health coverage, etc. Disability and Life Insurance Barnard offers disability benefits and life insurance to help you take care of yourself and provide for your family in the case of loss of income. In addition, employees are covered by workers’ compensation during their employment for work-related incidents causing injury or illness. Long Term Disability Insurance LTD helps you replace your salary and protect your financial security if you are unable to work due to injury or illness for more than 180 calendar days. CIGNA also provides coverage for long-term disability. This coverage is available after one year of service. However, this waiting period will be waived upon certification of coverage under a group long term total disability plan with the employee’s prior employer if coverage was in effect within 30 days of the Barnard date of hire. Workers' Compensation This state-mandated program provides temporary income in the event you experience a work-related injury or illness that prevents you from performing your job. No enrollment is necessary for this coverage. The third-party administrator is Travelers. Any job related injury or illness must be reported immediately to the responsible supervisor, department chair or the Office of Human Resources. Commutation Benefit Program The College offers employees the opportunity to use pre-tax dollars to pay certain commuting costs through WageWorks. This program provides you with an online ordering system for transportation and parking. By using this benefit, you can save on your income, Social Security (FICA) taxes by paying for your commuting expenses with pre-tax dollars up to the IRS limit. Orders are made online via the Wage Works website, the purchase price is deducted from your paycheck and your passes/cards are mailed directly to your home. Mandated Benefits Family and Medical Leave The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 require that Faculty members be given up to 12 weeks of unpaid, job protected leave during any 12 month period for the birth and first-year care of a child; the adoption or foster placement of a child; the serious medical condition of spouse, child, or parent; the Faculty member's own serious medical condition; or for Active Duty or Caregiver Leave. Both the employer and the employee have certain rights under the act. The Office of Human Resources can be contacted for further information. Unemployment Insurance Faculty who become unemployed through no fault of their own and are able and available to work, but unsuccessful in finding employment, may be eligible to receive a weekly benefit. Voluntary Benefits Barnard offers faculty several voluntary benefit packages. Further information is available from the Office of Human Resources. Backup Care: Through Bright Horizons, the College offers discounted Backup Child and Elder Care services when regular arrangements fall through unexpectedly. Backup care services include: child care in-home or at day care centers elder care services in-home Employee Assistance Program: EAP provides short-term counseling and referral for employees and their families when they are experiencing life challenges. Life challenges include crisis, death, marital trouble, divorce, family problems, financial problems, etc. All benefit-eligible employees and their dependents are able to use the college-sponsored EAP services. Additional services such as legal assistance, financial counseling, and life coaching are available in a limited capacity. MetPay: Offers discounted insurance rates for auto and home through Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. New faculty are urged to review and understand their first pay stubs to assure themselves that their elections of benefits have been correctly recorded. Questions may be referred to the Office of Human Resources. More comprehensive information is available on all these matters through the Office of Human Resources. In the event of any discrepancy between this brochure and the underlying plan documents, the underlying documents shall govern. The College may modify benefits at any time without prior notice. Healthcare While Traveling Domestic Travel (Including Canada, Mexico, and U.S. Posessions) Emergencies: If you are traveling domestically or are in a temporary domestic residence, medical services for medical emergencies and urgent care will be covered as an in-network benefit. International Travel (Except for Canada, Mexico and U.S. Posessions) Emergencies: If you are traveling or in a temporary residence abroad, medical services for medical emergencies and urgent care will be covered as an in-network benefit. Benefits for UAW Local 2110 Positions Benefits for UAW Local 2110 Positions This page refers to benefits for members of UAW Local 2110 staff in accordance with the CBA. The benefits on this page are not applicable to contingent faculty in UAW Local 2110 Barnard Contingent Faculty Union (BCF-UAW). BCF-UAW members can click here for more information about that collective bargaining agreement and available benefits. Except as noted, health care benefits are available to regular full-time employees and regular part-time employees. Regular part-time employees receive other benefits on a pro-rata basis. Health Care The complete Barnard health care program has three components: Medical Services, Drugs, and Dental. Benefits begin following three full months of employment. The Group Health Incorporated (GHI) medical plan provides benefits in one of two ways depending on where and from whom the covered employee seeks services. On the one hand, GHI can function as a preferred provider network which provides 100% coverage less a modest co-payment for some services such as prescriptions and office visits. Since care under this option is provided by GHI’s extensive network of doctors, there are no deductibles nor are there any claim forms. This is called “in-network.” On the other hand, GHI can function as traditional indemnity insurance allowing the participants to use doctors of their own choosing with reimbursement subject to the usual controls such as annual deductibles and reasonable and customary limitations. The claimant must complete claim forms. This is called “out-of-network.” Drugs On the GHI prescription drug program the employee pays $5 for generic and $10 for preferred-brand drugs and $25 for non-preferred brand drugs at participating pharmacies. A mail order program is available for maintenance drugs for $0 copayment. Dental Dental coverage is provided by Group Health Incorporated (GHI). Basic dental benefits are provided for employees and their dependents according to a fee schedule. Vision The College vision coverage through EyeMed. EyeMed makes it easy for you to visit one of their participating doctors in their network for your annual eye exam. Additional Considerations Waiver of Coverage: An employee who is eligible for health insurance coverage and waives such coverage will receive a monthly payment of $200 ($2,400 annually) for single coverage or $400 ($4,800 annually) for multiple/family coverage in lieu of benefits. In order to be eligible for this payment, the employee must submit annually satisfactory proof of coverage under another health insurance plan. Employees who waive coverage may terminate the waiver and elect coverage if there is a change in the employee’s spouse’s employment status that results in loss of coverage. This waiver of coverage is not available to employees whose spouses work for Barnard. Adjustment of Coverage: Subsequent to initial enrollment, additions to, or adjustments in coverage may occur only during open enrollment periods (usually the first calendar month of the year) or if there has been a life status change such as marriage, birth of a child, or loss of a spouse’s job. Dependents may be dropped from coverage at any time. Termination of Coverage: Termination provisions for unmarried dependent children, students and non-students age 26 and above vary under the several plans (medical/drug and dental) that make up the complete health care program. Specific information is available in the individual plan documents or from the Benefits Manager in the Human Resources Department. Finally, for terminating employees, coverage ends on the last day of the month in which their final day on payroll falls. COBRA and Conversion Privileges: Under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, employees who terminate employment under conditions other than gross misconduct may elect to remain in the group medical plans for 18 months from their termination date, or 29 months if termination is due to disability under certain conditions. The employee must notify ADP COBRA Services, 1-800-526-2720 or https://www.benedirect.adp.com of such election within 60 days of termination and must make payment retroactive to the first date of COBRA coverage within a period ending forty-five days after such election. Subsequent payments must be made monthly. In addition, eligible dependents covered by the plans may remain in the group for a period of up to 36 months if continuation coverage is due to the death of the employee, divorce or legal separation, or loss of eligibility due to reaching maximum plan age or becoming entitled to and applying for Medicare. Flexible Spending Dependent Care Employees are permitted to enroll in Barnard’s Flexible Spending Account plan for childcare. The College pays the administrative fees. A yearly childcare subsidy is available to eligible employees with children under age 13. Employee Assistance Program We are pleased to announce our new Employee Assistance Program through Humana (formerly known as "Harris Rotherberg International, Inc"). Disability Insurance Short Term Disability Insurance As mandated by the State of New York, Barnard employees are covered by Short Term Disability Insurance. Life Insurance Employees are covered by CIGNA with a group term life policy. Additional Considerations Inception - The life insurance benefit begins on the first day of the month following completion of three months of employment. Beneficiaries - Employees designate the beneficiary (ies) and may change that designation at any time. Seniors - For active employees over age 65, the amount of life insurance will be reduced in compliance with current plan provisions. The plan provides for additional reductions after age 70. Retirement Plans Barnard College provides two retirement plans: the Basic Retirement Annuity Plan and the Supplemental Retirement Annuity Plan. Both of these plans are administered by Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association - College Retirement Equity Fund (TIAA-CREF). Basic Retirement Annuity Eligibility Contributions to the Basic Retirement Annuity plan are made by Barnard. All regular employees performing 520 or more hours of service per year participate in the retirement plan if they have satisfied the eligibility requirements that are as follows: Employees hired on or before September 30, 2002 must have completed two (2) years of required service with the College and attained the age of twenty-one (21). Employees hired on or after October 1, 2002, must have completed one (1) year of required service with the College and attained the age of twenty-one (21). Eligible employees will begin participation on the January 1st or July 1st following their 1 or 2 year anniversary date, as described above. Contributions and Vesting For eligible employees hired on or before September 30, 2002, the College contributes 8% up to the then current “break point” of earnings during each plan year (July 1 to June 30) and 12% of earnings in excess of that break point. These eligible employees are immediately vested in the College’s contribution. For eligible employees hired between October 1, 2002 and July 31, 2009, the College contributes 8% of earnings during each plan year for years two (2) through four (4) of employment. Effective with the employee’s fifth (5th) anniversary of employment, the College contributes 8% up to the then current “break point” of earnings during each plan year (July 1 to June 30) and 12% of earnings in excess of the break point. These eligible employees vest in the College’s contribution following five (5) years of service. For eligible employees hired on or after August 1, 2009, the College contributes 2% of earnings during each plan year for years one (1) through four (4) of employment. Effective with the employee's fifth (5th) anniversary of employment, the College contributes 8% up to the then current "break point" of earnings during each plan year (July 1 to June 30) and 12% of earnings in excess of the break point. Those eligible employees vest in the College's contribution as follows: beginning in eligibility year two (2) the employee is vested at 20%; beginning in eligibility year three (3) the employee is vested at 40%; beginning in eligibility year four (4) the employee is vested at 60%; beginning in eligibility year five (5) the employee is vested at 80%; and beginning in eligibility year six (6) the employee is fully vested at 100%. Supplemental Retirement Annuity Both full-time and part-time employees may also elect to contribute to a supplemental tax-deferred annuity. These contributions are made pre-tax and require that the employee execute an authorizing Salary Reduction Agreement, which is available from the Human Resources Department. Employees can elect to contribute any amount up to an allowable maximum set by regulation and calculated by TIAA-CREF in each specific case. There is no waiting period. The plan includes a loan provision. Details are available from the Human Resources Department. Tuition Assistance Full-time employees hired on/after January 1, 1984 who have completed a 90 day probationary period receive an allowance for a maximum of fifteen credits per year for courses which are a part of a program of study leading to a degree or certificate, individual academic courses for which credit is given, and individual courses that are job related. Such courses must be taken at accredited institutions of higher education or recognized business or trade schools. Full-time twelve month employees receive 15 credits per year. Full-time nine and ten month employees receive 12 credits per year. Part-time employees receive pro-rata benefits. Effective January 1, 2003, there will be a cap of $1,000 per calendar year per employee for non-job related certificate programs. For non-job related individual academic courses, the College will pay an individual an amount per semester not to exceed the total cost of three (3) Columbia School of General Studies undergraduate credits then in effect. If you have additional questions regarding tuition, please refer to the Local 2110 contract or contact the Office of Human Resources. As required currently by law, tuition benefits for graduate school in excess of $5,250 per calendar year are considered taxable income to the employee, and taxes will be withheld from the employee's paycheck when appropriate. Dependents Daughters of full-time employees who are accepted for admission to Barnard under the normal admission procedures shall be entitled to eight (8) semesters of full tuition. Eligibility, for Fall and Spring semesters, depends upon several factors. Further information is available from the Human Resources Department. Paid Time Off Vacation All employees hired on/after January 1, 1984 earn two days per month for each full month of service up to a maximum of 24 days per year. Vacation time will be accrued but cannot be taken during the first six months of employment. Further, no more than 24 vacation days may be carried over from one fiscal year (July 1 to June 30) to the next. Holidays Employees, after thirty (30) days of employment shall be entitled to paid holidays within each calendar year as follows: New Year’s Day; Martin Luther King, Jr. Day; Memorial Day; Independence Day; Labor Day; Election Day; Thanksgiving Day; Day After Thanksgiving; Christmas Eve; Christmas Day; and New Year’s Eve. Regular part-time employees are paid for each of the above holidays on a pro-rata basis even if they are not scheduled to work. Floating: In addition to scheduled holidays, employees receive three floating holidays per year; those hired after January 1st receive two days for the first fiscal year ending June 30th. Nine and ten-month employees receive two floating holidays per year; those hired after January 1st receive one day for the first fiscal year ending June 30th. Sick Leave During the first year of employment, upon completion of the probationary period, employees shall receive five (5) paid sick leave days. Employees after one (1) year of employment, shall be entitled to ten (10) paid sick leave days. Credits may be used in units of 1/2 days (3 1/2 hours) but not less than 1/2 days. In addition to the current year’s entitlement, a maximum of 60 days unused sick leave may be carried from one year to the next. Therefore, the total maximum an employee will ever have available, including carryover and current year’s sick leave, is 70 days. Commutation Benefit Program The College offers employees the opportunity to use pre-tax dollars to pay certain commuting costs through Wageworks Mandated Benefits In addition to Short Term Disability (discussed above), there are four other mandated programs. These are: Family and Medical Leave The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 requires that eligible employees be given up to 12 weeks of unpaid, job protected leave during any 12 month period for the birth and first-year care of a child; the adoption or foster placement of a child; the serious medical condition of the employee’s spouse, child, or parent; or the employee’s own serious medical condition. Both the employer and the employee have certain rights under the act. The Human Resources Department can be contacted for further information. Social Security Social Security is a federal program of retirement, disability, survivor and health related benefits covering most staff. Contributions to Social Security are shared by the College and the employee. Worker’s Compensation Income protection, medical benefits and survivor benefits are provided for job related illnesses and injuries. This mandated coverage is provided to the college by Travelers and is independent of the health care coverage provided by GHI. For this reason, among others, any job related injury or illness must be reported immediately to the responsible supervisor, department chair or director and to the Human Resources Department. Unemployment Insurance Staff and faculty who become unemployed through no fault of their own and are able and available to work, but unsuccessful in finding employment, may be eligible to receive a weekly benefit in accordance with New York State law. Voluntary Benefits Health Club Membership: Faculty and staff can secure discounted health club memberships through GlobalFit Corporate Fitness. New Employees are urged to review and understand their first pay stubs to assure themselves that their elections of benefits have been correctly recorded. Questions may be referred to Human Resources Department. This information must be read in conjunction with the terms of the collective bargaining agreement between Barnard College and Local 2110, UAW, a copy of which is available from the Union’s Unit Chairperson. In the event of a discrepancy between this web site and the collective bargaining agreement, the agreement shall govern. (Rev. 07/01/16) Benefits for TWU Local 264 Positions Benefits for TWU Local 264 Positions Except as noted, health care benefits are available to regular full-time employees and regular part-time employees. Regular part-time employees receive other benefits on a pro-rata basis. Health Care The complete Barnard health care program has three components: Medical Services and Prescriptions, Dental and Flexible Spending. Benefits begin following 90 days of employment. The College provides both individual and dependent coverage. Medical Services Currently, medical coverage is provided by two health plans. These are Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York, or "HIP" (HMO), and Cigna Open Access Plus "Plan A". Each of these organizations provides health care (hospital, medical, surgical and prescription drug) for those employees and their eligible dependents living in the areas covered by each of the individual plans. The benefits provided emphasize preventive care such as immunizations and physical examinations. Dental Dental coverage is provided by Group Health Incorporated (GHI). Basic dental benefits are provided for employees and their dependents according to a fee schedule. There are no out-of-pocket expenses for covered services performed by GHI participating dentists. Vision The College offers vision coverage through EyeMed. An annual eye exam can help manage your overall health and wellbeing. EyeMed makes it easy for you to visit one of their participating doctors in their network for your annual eye exam. Flexible Spending The Barnard College Flexible Spending Account enables full-time, participating employees to pay for their unreimbursed health care expenses with pre-tax income. Employee Assistance Program We are pleased to announce are new Employee Assistance Program through Humana (formerly known as "Harris Rotherberg International, Inc"). Additional Considerations Adjustment of Coverage: Subsequent to initial enrollment, additions to, or adjustments in coverage may occur only during open enrollment periods (usually the first calendar month of the year) or if there has been a life status change such as marriage, birth of a child, or loss of a spouse’s job. Dependents may be dropped from coverage at any time. Termination of Coverage: Termination provisions for unmarried dependent children, students and non-students age 26 and above vary under the several plans (medical/drug, dental and flexible spending) that make up the complete health care program. Specific information is available in the individual plan documents or from the Benefits Manager in the Human Resources Department. Finally, for employees who are terminating employment, coverage ends on the last day of the month in which their final working day falls. COBRA and Conversion Privileges: Under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, employees who terminate employment under conditions other than gross misconduct may elect to remain in the group medical plans for 18 months from their termination date, or 29 months if termination is due to disability under certain conditions. The employee must notify ADP COBRA Services, of such election within 60 days of termination and must make payment retroactive to the first date of COBRA coverage within a period ending forty-five days after such election. Subsequent payments must be made monthly. In addition, eligible dependents covered by the plans may remain in the group for a period of up to 36 months if continuation coverage is due to the death of the employee, divorce or legal separation, or loss of eligibility due to reaching maximum plan age or becoming entitled to and applying for Medicare. Disability Insurance Short Term Disability Insurance As mandated by the State of New York, Barnard employees are covered by Short Term Disability Insurance. In the College’s case this insurance is provided by CIGNA. Life Insurance Employees are covered by a CIGNA group term life policy with an Accidental Death and Dismemberment (AD&D) rider. The most important feature of the AD&D rider is that it provides the beneficiary (ies) double the face amount of the policy if the covered employee dies as a result of an accident. Additional Considerations Inception: The life insurance benefit begins on the first day of the month following completion three full months of employment. Beneficiaries: Employees designate the beneficiary (ies) and may change that designation at any time. Seniors: For active employees over age 65, the amount of life insurance will be reduced in compliance with current plan provisions. The plan provides for additional reductions after age 70. Retirement Plans Barnard College provides two retirement plans: the Basic Retirement Annuity Plan and the Supplemental Retirement Annuity Plan. Both of these plans are administered by Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association - College Retirement Equity Fund (TIAA-CREF). Basic Retirement Annuity Eligibility: Contributions to the Basic Retirement Annuity plan are made by Barnard. All regular employees performing 520 or more hours of service per year participate in the retirement plan if they have satisfied the eligibility requirements. These are: (a) employees must have completed 2 years of service with the college, and (b) attained the age of 21. Contributions: For eligible employees hired on or after April 1, 2012, the college contributes 9% of earnings during each plan year (July 1st to June 30th). For eligible employees hired before April 1, 2012, the college contributes 9% of the first $18,250 (the "breakpoint") and 12% of earnings in excess of that amount. As of January 1, 2013, the "breakpoint" is $25,000. Supplemental Retirement Annuity Both full-time and part-time employees may also elect to make contributions to a supplemental tax-deferred annuity. These contributions are made pre-tax and require that the employee execute an authorizing Salary Reduction Agreement, which is available from the Human Resources Department. Employees can elect to contribute any amount up to an allowable maximum set by regulation and calculated by TIAA-CREF in each specific case. There is no waiting period. The plan includes a loan provision. Details are available from the Human Resources Department. Tuition Assistance Employees All regular employees after two years of employment, are eligible to receive up to $7,500 per annum ($8,000 effective October 1, 2012; $8,500 effective October 1, 2013) from an accredited educational or vocational institution. Tuition payments are made in accordance with the contract between the College and TWU. Dependents Daughters of full-time employees who are accepted for admission to Barnard under the normal admission procedures shall be entitled to eight (8) semesters of full tuition. Eligibility, for Fall and Spring semesters, depends upon several factors. Further information from Human Resources. Paid Time Off Vacation All employees hired on or after October 1,1982 receive annual vacation days as follows: After six months but less than 12 months - one week (5 days), After twelve months - two weeks (10 days), After three years - three weeks (15 days), After five years - four weeks (20 days), After thirteen years - five weeks (25 days). Holidays Employees, after their thirty (30) days of employment shall be entitled to paid holidays within each calendar year as follows: New Year’s Day; Martin Luther King, Jr. Day; Memorial Day; Independence Day; Labor Day; Election Day; Thanksgiving Day; Day After Thanksgiving; Christmas Eve; Christmas Day; and New Year’s Eve. Part-time employees are paid for each of the above holidays on a pro-rata basis even if they are not scheduled to work. Floating: In addition to scheduled holidays, employees receive three floating holidays per year; those hired after January 1st receive two days for the first fiscal year ending June 30th. Sick Leave Sick leave accrues annually as of July 1st. It is paid in the case of actual, certified personal illness. Employees hired after January 27, 1992, after six months of employment, accrue one week (five days) per year. After two years of employment, sick leave accrues at the rate of ten days per year. In addition to the current year’s entitlement, a maximum of 60 days unused sick leave may be carried from one year to the next. Therefore, the total maximum an employee will ever have available, including carry-over and current year’s sick leave, is 70 days. Commutation Benefit Program The College offers employees the opportunity to use pre-tax dollars to pay certain commuting costs through WageWorks. Mandated Benefits In addition to Short Term Disability (discussed above), there are four other mandated programs. These are: Family and Medical Leave The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 requires that eligible employees be given up to 12 weeks of unpaid, job protected leave during any 12 month period for the birth and first-year care of a child; the adoption or foster placement of a child; the serious medical condition of the employee’s spouse, child, or parent; or the employee’s own serious medical condition. Both the employer and the employee have certain rights under the act. The Human Resources Department can be contacted for further information. Social Security Social Security is a federal program of retirement, disability, survivor and health related benefits covering most staff. Contributions to Social Security are shared by the College and the employee. Worker’s Compensation Income protection, medical benefits and survivor benefits are provided for job related illnesses and injuries. This mandated coverage is provided to the college by Travelers and is independent of the health care coverage provided by either HIP or Aetna/U.S. Healthcare. For this reason, among others, any job related injury or illness must be reported immediately to the responsible supervisor, department chair or director and to the Human Resources Department. Unemployment Insurance Staff and faculty who become unemployed through no fault of their own and are able and available to work, but unsuccessful in finding employment, may be eligible to receive a weekly benefit. Voluntary Benefits Barnard offers several voluntary benefit packages. Further information is available from the Human Resources Department. Health Club Membership: Faculty and staff can secure discounted health club memberships through GlobalFit Corporate Fitness. New Employees are urged to review and understand their first pay stubs to assure themselves that their elections of benefits have been correctly recorded. Questions may be referred to Human Resources Department. Employees are also encouraged to familiarize themselves with the terms of the collective bargaining agreement between the college and Local 264, TWU, a copy of which is available from the union. (Rev. 07/01/16) Summary Annual Reports Summary Annual Reports Below are the Summary Annual Reports for the Barnard College Health Insurance Plans and Retirement Plans. Health & Welfare Plans 2016 Summary Annual Reports Barnard College Medical Prescription Drug Benefits for Academic, Administrative, and Confidential Employees Barnard College Group Ins Plan and Life Insurance for Administrate, Operational, Academic, and Confidential Employees Barnard College EAP Plan Barnard College Long Term Disability Insurance for Administrative Faculty, and Confidential Employees Barnard College Accidental Death and Total Disability Travel Insurance Plan Barnard College Temporary Disability Insurance Plan for Administrative, Confidential, and Operational Employees Barnard College Dental Insurance Plan for Faculty, Administrative, and Confidential Employees 2015 Summary Annual Reports Barnard College Medical Prescription Drug Benefits for Academic, Administrative, and Confidential Employees Barnard College Group Ins Plan and Life Insurance for Administrate, Operational, Academic, and Confidential Employees Barnard College EAP Plan Barnard College Long Term Disability Insurance for Administrative Faculty, and Confidential Employees Barnard College Accidental Death and Total Disability Travel Insurance Plan Barnard College Temporary Disability Insurance Plan for Administrative, Confidential, and Operational Employees Barnard College Dental Insurance Plan for Faculty, Administrative, and Confidential Employees Retirement Plans 2016 Summary Annual Reports Barnard College Defined Contribution Plan for Officers of Instruction and Administrators Barnard College Defined Contribution Plan for Members of Local 2110, United Auto Workers; Members of Local 264, Transport Workers Union of America, and Confidential Employees 2015 Summary Annual Reports Barnard College Defined Contribution Plan for Officers of Instruction and Administrators Barnard College Defined Contribution Plan for Members of Local 2110, United Auto Workers; Members of Local 264, Transport Workers Union of America, and Confidential Employees Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262