Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Back What We Offer & Services Hours & Location Student Insurance After Hours Care: Clinician On-Call Forms: Current Students & Alums About the PCHS Appointment Types Events Feedback Fees Frequently Asked Questions Open Communicator: Online Scheduling/Messaging Medical Records Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Health Primary Care Health Services Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program Summer 2022 Information: The Primary Care Health Services will be closed for ALL CLINICAL services starting at 5:00 pm on Friday, May 20, 2022 until 9:30 am Monday, June 6, 2022. After hours clinician on call, Fonemed, will also not be in service during this time The PCHS office will be open for administrative duties only during this two week period Starting Monday, June 6, 2022 through Friday, August 12, 2022, PCHS will be open for all clinical services for all residential students and those who are enrolled in summer session and paid the comprehensive fee PCHS Summer hours are: Monday through Thursday: 9:30 am to 4:30 pm Fridays: 9:30 am to 1:00 pm The after hours clinician on call, Fonemed, will also be available starting Monday, June 6, 2022 The after hours clinician on call, Fonemed, is only available after PCHS operating hours, and only for summer enrolled students For summer enrolled students, starting June 6, 2022, for after-hours emergencies (after business hours & weekends), call the Clinician on Call. This number is NOT to report a +COVID test result, to make an appointment at PCHS, or to find out about hours of operation and location of PCHS. Please see the links below for information. The Clinician on Call can be reached at 1-855-622-1903 Our mission is: To provide excellent clinical health care to Barnard students of all genders and identities in a sensitive, non-judgmental and responsive manner. To promote the health of body, mind and spirit within the student community. To educate students to become knowledgeable and effective users of health care. Services are available to all students regardless of insurance status. Click here for more information about our services! Flu Shots How to Submit Documentation (Students only) Documentation should be uploaded into Open Communicator as per these instructions. Students who were vaccinated at PCHS do not need to take any further action. How to Get a Flu Vaccination Everyone ages 6 mos and older can get a flu shot. Flu vaccines can be administered at the same time as COVID-19 vaccines, including boosters. To find a vaccination site near you, you can use New York City’s Vaccine Finder or the Vaccine.gov webpage. How to Report a +COVID Test Result If you have tested positive for COVID outside of the Barnard testing center, please follow these steps in reporting the result to the college: 1. Take a picture of the test result-either of the test itself if it is a rapid test or the lab result if it was a PCR 2. Open up the CoVerified App and tap the "Records" icon on the bottom of the screen 3. Once on the "Records" screen, tap the "+" sign at the bottom of the screen and choose "upload test result" and complete the information. 4. Once you have uploaded the information, a nurse will be in contact with you between 9:00 am and 9:00pm to verify isolation date and discuss next steps COVID-19 Vaccine Information: Common Side Effects and J&J Updates COVID-19 vaccination will help protect you from getting COVID-19. You may have some side effects, which are normal signs that your body is building protection. These side effects may affect your ability to do daily activities, but they should go away in a few days. Many people have no side effects at all. Common Side Effects At the Site of the Injection • Pain • Redness • Swelling Throughout the Rest of Your Body: • Tiredness • Headache • Muscle pain • Chills • Fever • Nausea Helpful Tips If you have pain or discomfort after getting your vaccine, it is generally safe to use an over-the-counter medicine, such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen. To reduce pain and discomfort where you got the shot: • Apply a clean, cool, wet washcloth over the area. • Use or exercise your arm. To reduce discomfort from fever: • Drink plenty of fluids. • Dress lightly. In most cases, discomfort from fever or pain is normal. Contact PCHS or a Healthcare Provider: • If the redness or tenderness where you got the shot increases after 24 hours • If your side effects are worrying you or do not seem to be going away after a few days Please see these CDC links for more detailed information: Video on What to Expect After Receiving a COVID 19 vaccine Information Sheet on what to expect a receiving a COVID vaccine --------------- Updates on Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen COVID-19 Vaccine The "pause" on the Johnson & Johnson (Janssen) COVID-19 Vaccine has been lifted by the FDA and CDC following a thorough safety review. The pause was recommended after reports of six cases of a rare and severe type of blood clot in individuals who received the Janssen COVID-19 Vaccine. After an extensive review of all available data and consultation with medical experts the two agencies have determined that the J&J vaccine is safe and effective in preventing COVID 19, that the available data show the vaccine's known and potential benefits outweigh it's known and potential risks in individuals 18 and older and that use of the J&J vaccine should be resumed in the United states. This pause was an indication of just how cautious the CDC is being about oversight of the safety of these vaccines, that they paused the distribution of a vaccine because of a side effect that occurred literally in one in a million cases. The Moderna and the Pfizer vaccines have not demonstrated any increased risk of blood clots. For more information please see this CDC Fact Sheet for Recipients and Caregivers, which includes information about receiving the J&J vaccine. And please see this CDC link for more detailed information about the lifting of the pause: FDA and CDC Lift Recommended Pause on Johnson & Johnson (Janssen) COVID-19 Vaccine Use Following Thorough Safety Review After Hours Care: Clinician On-Call Barnard Primary Care Health Services recognizes that serious illness will not always be confined to weekday, daytime hours. For those urgent or potentially dangerous situations that cannot wait until Primary Care re-opens, telephone advice is available after hours. This service is not intended for the following: Reporting a +COVID test result Contraception refill requests Referral requests Location and operation hours of PCHS requests Scheduling/Confirming/Canceling appointment requests Vaccine information requests The Clinician On-Call is only available when the Primary Care Health Service is NOT open. During regular business hours, 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM, Monday - Friday, please call Primary Care directly at 1-212-854-2091. To access the Clinician-on-Call please call 1-855-622-1903. Please note that PCHS will be closed and the Clinician on Call will be unavailable from 5:00 pm on Friday, May 20, 2022 to Monday, June 6, 2022. Starting Monday, June 6, 2022, PCHS will re-open and the Clinician on Call will be available to students who are enrolled in summer session and paid the comprehensive fee. PCHS summer hours - starting Monday, June 6, 2022 are: Monday to Thursday: 9:30 am to 4:30 pm Fridays: 9:30 am to 1:00 pm We hope you stay healthy day and night… but if an after-hours emergency arises, the Clinician On-Call is available to help. Health Insurance Info for Students 2021-2022 Aetna Student Health Insurance Info/University Health Plans Student Insurance Info COVID-19 Information We are continually monitoring the COVID-19 pandemic, along with our partners at Columbia University Health systems and the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (NYC DOHMH). The health and well-being of all members of our community is our top priority. Below is information about transmission, symptoms, diagnosis for the virus, preventive measures, and resources to contact immediately if you have any symptoms. Transmission: Like other coronaviruses, this new virus is spread through respiratory droplets from coughing or sneezing, but can also be transmitted on surfaces such as handles and knobs. Symptoms: Fever (>100.4F) Runny nose Cough Shortness of breath Headache Sore throat Inability to smell and/or taste General feeling of being unwell Faculty/Staff: Anyone experiencing symptoms is strongly encouraged to contact a medical provider over the phone to discuss their symptoms. Students: Whether you are local or not, students are free to discuss your symptoms with a provider in Primary Care who can direct you to either self-monitoring or to seeking an in-person evaluation of your symptoms. Please call us at 212-854-2091 during the hours of 9:30-4pm EST, Monday-Friday. If it is not during these hours, you can call the Clinician-on-call at 877-788-8819. Preventive Measures: There is currently no vaccine to prevent this virus. The best way to prevent infection is to avoid being exposed. Below are the Centers for Disease Control’s (CDC) recommended preventive measures to help control the spread of respiratory pathogens: Stay home! Keep at least 6 feet away from others as much as possible. As difficult as this may be, this has been shown to be most protective. Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands. Especially avoid close contact with anyone who is sick. Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash. Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces. Wear a cloth or paper mask/covering over your nose and mouth if you must go outside. This does not replace all of the above precautions, but it can possibly add additional protection for you and for others around you. Please do not use an N95 respirator – this should be reserved for health care providers only. If you have a reserve of these, please donate these to your local hospital or urgent care clinic. This can be life-saving for those on the front lines! Location & Hours Location: Lower Level Brooks Hall » Campus accessibility map Phone: 1-212-854-2091 Fax: 1-212-854-2702 Hours: The PCHS is open for clinical care during the academic year. We are closed for all College holidays. For more information about our clinical hours please click here. Administrative Hours: Monday - Thursday: 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM Friday: 9:00 AM - 4:30 PM The PCHS closes every Thursday from 11:00 AM - 1:30 PM for a staff meeting. Open Communicator: Online Scheduling, Secure Messages & Forms Open Communicator Link Quick Links & Forms Insurance Information: Printing Your Aetna Student Health Card, Claim Forms & Waiver Link Open Communicator: Online Appointments, Secure Messaging, Forms Medical Records and Authorization to Release Medical Records Form End of Life, Advanced Directives & Health Care Proxy Form If you are a survivor of sexual assault or other physical violence, please click on the link below for a list of the resources available to you at Barnard: Nondiscrimination and Title IX Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262