Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Countdown to Commencement 2022 15 Images to Count Down Five Days to Commencement With Commencement just around the corner, we’re celebrating our seniors with some of our favorite photos and videos from the graduation season. May 13, 2022 In 2018, 608 students joined the Class of 2022 and embarked on their journey at Barnard. Now, four years later, it is their time to take the stage at Radio City Music Hall. With just five days left until Commencement, we’re sharing some of our favorite senior moments from recent graduation festivities. Check out the series of photos and videos below to get in the celebratory spirit. 1. Alma Mater’s #1 Barnard Cheerleader Image Madeleine Morales ’22, a member of the Columbia University Cheerleading team, showcases her Barnard spirit on top of the iconic Alma Mater statue on Columbia’s campus. We think Alma Mater would be very proud. 2. Stepping Up the Celebration Image Access Barnard — the hub for international, first-generation, and low-income students — celebrated seniors on May 4 at the Stepping Up Celebration to honor students moving up to the next class year. The event included selfie frames and cupcakes — need we say more? 3. Time for Caps and Gowns Image Beautiful gowns for our bold seniors! Members of the Class of 2022 stopped by the Diana Event Oval to pick up their caps and gowns at a Student Experience & Engagement (SEE) event in April. 4. Applause for Our Seniors Image Proud friends and family alert! A graduating senior poses for a photo after being celebrated at the Honors Assembly event. 5. A Proud President Beilock Image President Sian Leah Beilock is a familiar figure at Commencement events, where she loves to share her message of congratulations. She’s pictured here with students at the senior reception. 6. A Few More Days Until Commencement Image Tonika Henry ’22 helps us count down the days until Commencement. “[Class of] 2022, we did it! We’re so resilient, we made it through a pandemic. I am [extremely] grateful for so much community I was able to build here. Let’s get excited!” 7. Photo Finish Image Nothing like a fun photo booth picture to get students in the Commencement spirit. 8. Three’s a Charm Image Each year for Commencement season, campus becomes awash in blue. It’s hard not to feel a sense of pride as seniors sport their caps and gowns around campus. Here, friends Samantha Bhuiyan ’22, Stephanie Secaira ’22, and Amana Mohiuddin ’22 pose together in their ensembles. 9. Celebrating 2022 with Smiles Image Friends, food, and good times. Members of the Class of 2022 serve up big smiles at the senior celebration. 10. Honors Assembly Fun Image Few things are more coveted than a selfie with President Beilock. Here, students gather at the annual event — with the College’s leader — where they’re publicly awarded scholarships, fellowships, and other prizes. 11. Senior Time Capsule In April, members of the Class of 2022 buried a time capsule in the campus’ Futter Field with the help of our amazing groundskeeping crew. The box is loaded with items that represent their time at Barnard: a COVID test, the nonfiction book Hidden Figures by this year’s Commencement speaker Margot Lee Shetterly, and more. The Class of 2022 will open the capsule 25 years from now. Talk about a blast from the past. 12. A Lavender Party Image Barnard seniors Emma Tabenken and Caitlin Lent show off their newly acquired lavender cords at Barnard’s first-ever Lavender Graduation on May 4, in celebration of students who identify as LGBTQ+. 13. Senior STEMinists Image Mary Clare Greenlees ’22, Lindsay Long ’22, Jada Louison ’22, Gwendolyn (Gwen) LaPlante ’22, and Ilana Doran ’22 share a special bond as the five graduating seniors in Barnard’s Physics and Astronomy Department. “Even though I am not fully represented [in this field as a Black woman], I do have a cohort of people who are there for me, who are rooting for me, and who have seen me through this whole process,” said Jada Louison ’22. 14. The Dancing Queen @barnard.college Two weeks until #Barnard2022 Commencement! #Repost from Aimée Mehala ’22 @jeepthroat ♬ original sound - Barnard College ABBA fans, unite! Aimée Mehala ’22 showcases her dance moves to the iconic Swedish pop group’s hit “Gimme! Gimme! Gimme! (A Man After Midnight)” in front of Columbia’s Low Library. 15. A Presidential Selfie Image Students can never have too many pictures with President Beilock. Two members of the Class of 2022 share smiles, albeit masked up. Students Commencement Columbia President Sian Beilock More Stories Students Jada Louison ’22 Wants Women of Color to Study the Stars Students Share Pole Dancer Olivia Bingyu Wang ’22 Students Welcome, Class of 2022! Meet our Extraordinary First-Years Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262