Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information International Students New Full-Degree International Students Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Congratulations on your acceptance to Barnard College! We are delighted for you to join your fellow students from more than 50 countries as part of the international student population here at Barnard and the even broader community at Columbia University in New York City. Your successful transition is a priority for Barnard College. The U.S. government and the college have several requirements for international students. Our office is here to help you navigate the process and put you on the right path toward a fulfilling and productive academic experience at Barnard College. Please review the tabs below this text to prepare for the journey ahead! Apply for your F-1 Visa Obtaining Your F-1 Student Visa Students must obtain an F-1 Visa to enter the United States for the purpose of study at Barnard as a full-time student in a degree program. To apply for an F-1 student visa, you must schedule an interview at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in the country where you live. They will ask for your SEVIS number, which is located on the top right-hand corner of the Form I-20. You will receive instructions on how to obtain the Form I-20 upon gaining admission to the college. Do not use a tourist visa to enter the United States to study at Barnard. Required Documents On the day of your visa interview, you will be asked to present several documents. A complete list of documents is available on the U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs website under U.S. Visas. Please be sure to review the U.S. Visas page in its entirety. Also, please follow all instructions provided by your local embassy or consulate on how to apply for a visa. Form I-20 The Form I-20 is the"Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant (F-1) Student Status – For Academic and Language Students." This form will be required by your local embassy or consulate as part of your student visa application. Barnard will issue your Form I-20 upon admission to the college. To request your Form I-20, please submit the items listed below to iss@barnard.edu as one (1) file in PDF format. I-20 Request Form, including supporting documentation Copy of Passport, photo page Affidavit of Support - Include an affidavit only if someone is supporting you financially. You may have more than one sponsor. Each sponsor must submit a separate form. F-1 Transfer Verification Form - Include this form only if you attended another U. S. secondary school or U. S. college within the last six (6) months. All I-20 forms for the entering class, including early admitted students, will be issued in late June, provided our office has received all necessary paperwork. Special note: Please make sure that your Form I-20 is returned to you by the embassy or consulate. Otherwise, you may not be allowed to enter the United States. Form I-94 The arrival record is the Form I-94 in either paper or electronic formats issued by a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officer to foreign visitors entering the United States. You will not receive a copy of your I-94 unless you are traveling by car. As soon as possible upon arrival, please print a copy of your Form I-94. Contact Us If you have any trouble obtaining a student visa, please contact iss@barnard.edu. Preparing for your Arrival Orientation All new international students on F-1 or J-1 visas must attend iPOP! - International Pre-Orientation Program. This includes all new international First Year and Transfer students. Please note that this is one of two mandatory orientation programs intended to aid in your transition to Barnard, New York City, and the United States. The second required program is the college-wide New Student Orientation Program (NSOP). It is during this program that new international students meet their domestic peers. You do not need to plan differently to participate in NSOP as you will already be on campus and iPOP will lead right into NSOP. INTERNATIONAL STUDENT CHECK-IN AND MOVE-IN: Friday, August 24 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM Barnard Hall Lobby IPOP WELCOME DINNER: Friday, August 24 Time TBD Location: Millicent Carey McIntosh Student Dining Room Safety Barnard College is located in Morningside Heights on the West side of Manhattan. Barnard students' safety around the neighborhood and beyond is an essential element to positive student life. Simple safety tips: 1. Keep electronics in your bag or concealed in public. 2. Yellow Call Boxes: scattered on campus for use in case of emergency. 3. Never take an unmarked cab - only take yellow or green taxis with meters. 4. Columbia Evening Shuttle provides safe transit in the Morningside Heights neighborhood: 212-854-SAFE. Lodging If you or your parents need temporary lodging near Barnard before arrival or for a visit, there are many hotel options in the neighborhood. Finances Banking: To set up an American bank account as an international student, you must physically go to a branch with an approved ID and an American address. View a list of banks near Barnard College and detailed instructions on setting up an account. Budgeting: The Bursar's Office at Columbia College has compiled a list of basic fees for housing, meal plans and tuition for average Barnard students. New York City itself can be expensive, but with careful budgeting and familiarity with the options, the cost of living in a global city can be affordable. Public Transit Metro Card: One Metro ticket is $2.75 and is valid for one trip on the New York City subway system. MTA also provides options for week-long or month-long Metro passes. There are no special fares for college students. These tickets can be purchased on the entrance to the subway at kiosks or automated machines in the subway. Insurance Barnard offers a student insurance option called Aetna Student Health (ASH) Policy. Pricing, coverage and application information is available to help determine a students' need. For more information, check out this video on healthcare in the US. What to Pack Learn more about the climate in New York City and what to pack so you will be prepared to stay warm in the winter and cool in the summer. Don't bring things prohibited by ResLife (like pets); DO bring things from your home country to share with new friends! Don’t worry, during NSOP we’ll also take you to a store where you can get everything you couldn’t pack or forgot to bring. Document Checklist Customs: Before you get on the plane to New York City, be sure that you have all of the necessary documents as defined by the US Department of Homeland Security. NYC Airports There are three major airports around New York City: John F. Kennedy Airport, LaGuardia Airport and Newark Airport (in New Jersey). There are public transit options from these airports, but most often, students take taxis from the airport to Barnard or their final destination. NYC Taxis New York Taxi Cabs are yellow or green and always have a meter that determines the fare. At New York airports, you will be directed to a line where you can get in a cab. Do NOT agree to take a ride from anyone offering taxi services inside baggage claim. You will need to provide the driver with the neighborhood and address to which you are going. For example, if you are going to Barnard College from the airport, you would request to be taken to "Morningside Heights - Barnard College - at Broadway and 117th." Alternatively, you could simply tell the cab driver, "Morningside Heights - 3009 Broadway." Broadway and 117th are the cross-streets where Barnard College is located. Planning for School Breaks and Returning Home Residence halls remain open over some school breaks, such as Fall Break (early November), Thanksgiving Break (late November) and Spring Break (mid-March). Students are welcome to stay in their residence halls at these times. During Winter and Summer Break, students must apply to remain in campus housing; housing is not guaranteed. Please review Residential Life policies on Winter Break Housing and Summer Housing. When planning return flights home, keep in mind Barnard policy: students must move out within 24 hours of their final exam or by the time the residence halls close for the semester. Important residence hall dates can be found here. Many students wait to buy a return ticket until the exam schedule is final. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262