Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Trans@Barnard On This Page On This Page Chosen Name Housing & Restrooms Physical & Mental Healthcare Classroom Guidance Gender-based Discrimination Resources LGBTQIA+ Initiatives on Campus Welcome to Trans@Barnard! This is where you will find resources for navigating Barnard while transmasculine, transfeminine, nonbinary, and/or gender-nonconforming. If you have questions, concerns, or need additional support, please don’t hesitate to reach out to dei@barnard.edu. Barnard's transgender admissions policy Chosen Name Information The Registrar's Office manages student records where a preferred name can be registered. Please note that Barnard is in the process of updating the language from “preferred name” to “chosen name.” Updating Your Name To start the process, please fill out this form for the Registrar's Office. Once your chosen name has been updated with the registrar, most other campus offices will receive this information. Please note that, per this process, your chosen name will be used for these purposes: University ID card Class Rosters and Grading Rosters (myBarnard and SSOL) Courseworks Courseworks discussion groups Barnard and Columbia Public Directories (unless the student has asked that information be blocked) Communications (for example, if Barnard sends mail to the student at the student’s home address, it will be addressed to your chosen name) Diploma Please note that Barnard and Columbia professors do not have access to deadnames and can only see the “preferred name” on their rosters. If you have not changed your name legally, your legal name will still be used for: Office of International and Intercultural Student Programs Office of Financial Aid Bursar’s Office Federal or State Requests for Information (including tax forms) National Student Clearinghouse Transcript Academic certifications (of enrollment, good standing, degree completion) Athletics rosters Furman Counseling Center Primary Care Health Service Housing & Restrooms Housing accommodation request process: If you have a specific housing accommodation need, please contact housing@barnard.edu to discuss your request and possible options. Please note that for the 2021-2022 academic year, all requests are considered on a space-available basis. Information for the 2022-2023 academic year will be posted on this page once it is made available. Gender-inclusive restrooms on campus: Barnard students may use any bathroom that aligns with their gender identity. Residence Halls: All corridor-style housing (the Quad and Elliot Hall) has an all-gender restroom on each floor. Floor plans are available on the Res Life website. Academic Buildings: There is at least one all-gender bathroom in every academic building on campus. *Map of all-gender bathroom locations coming soon.* Columbia University Columbia gender-neutral restroom map Physical & Mental Healthcare Primary Care's services are available to all students of all gender identities and expressions. Students who are considering any kind of gender transition that may involve medical care are encouraged to make an appointment at Primary Care to discuss potential next steps and resources. PCHS maintains a comprehensive list of referral resources for trans* health care in regard to transitioning in NYC and will work with students to find appropriate resources. Barnard College’s student health insurance, through Aetna Student Health, covers both hormonal and surgical healthcare. Any student who has already begun receiving hormone therapy outside of New York may also be given referrals to the resources available in NYC. Students who are self-administering injections may receive assistance from Primary Care’s clinical staff, with the appropriate medical documentation. Furman Counseling Center provides confidential counseling and more services. Other NYC-Based Mental Health Resources Callen-Lorde Callen-Lorde is the global leader in LGBTQ+ healthcare. Since the days of Stonewall, Callen-Lorde has been transforming lives in LGBTQ+ communities through excellent comprehensive care, provided free of judgment and regardless of ability to pay. In addition, Callen-Lorde continuously pioneers research, advocacy, and education to drive positive change around the world, because we believe healthcare is a human right. Callen-Lorde Community Health Center provides sensitive, quality healthcare and related services targeted to New York’s lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender communities — in all their diversity — regardless of ability to pay. To further this mission, Callen-Lorde promotes health education and wellness, and advocates for LGBTQ+ health issues. Contact information: 356 West 18th St., New York, NY 10011, (212) 271-7200 Apicha Community Health Center Apicha Community Health Center’s mission is to improve the health of the community and to increase access to comprehensive primary care, preventative health services, mental health, and supportive services. Apicha is committed to excellence and to providing culturally competent services that enhance the quality of life. Apicha advocates for and provides a welcoming environment for underserved and vulnerable people, especially Asians and Pacific Islanders, the LGBTQ+ community, and individuals living with and affected by HIV/AIDS. Contact information: 400 Broadway, New York, NY 10013, (866) 274-2429 The Gender and Sexuality Therapy Center Finding a therapist who is a good fit can be a difficult experience under any circumstances, but for members of LGBTQ+ and alt sexualities communities, the search can easily become overwhelming. How can you make sure that you find someone affirming of and knowledgeable about your identity, communities, and experience living in the world? The Gender & Sexuality Therapy Center provides the safe, nonjudgmental, and empowering therapeutic space that you deserve. The Gender & Sexuality Therapy Center is a New York City-based group of psychotherapists providing a range of services, including psychotherapy, supervision, workshops, and consultation focusing on gender, sexuality, sex, and relationships for individuals, couples, multipartner relationships, and families. Contact information: 850 7th Avenue, New York, NY 10019, (646) 797-4340 Crisis Resources Trans Lifeline (877) 565-8860 Trans Lifeline is run by and for trans people. Trans Lifeline is a grassroots hotline and microgrants 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization offering direct emotional and financial support to trans people in crisis — for the trans community, by the trans community. The Trevor Project 1-866-488-7386 The Trevor Project is the leading national organization providing crisis intervention and suicide prevention services to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer & questioning (LGBTQ) young people under 25. TrevorLifeline is a crisis intervention and suicide prevention phone service available 24/7/365. Classroom Guidance for Faculty The Center for Engaged Pedagogy has provided guidance for faculty on ways to create gender-inclusive classrooms. Faculty are also participating in trans competency trainings led by Barnard alum Dylan Kapit ’16 (they/them). NameCoach is a tool in Canvas that allows students and faculty to record their name pronunciations and pronouns. This tool is now default-enabled in the left-hand navigation bar in all Barnard courses, and appears as “Name and Pronoun.” See the guide for details on how to use this tool, and feel free to email courseworks@barnard.edu with questions. Gender-Based Discrimination Resources for the Barnard Community Reporting discrimination There are legal protections in place for Barnard community members experiencing discrimination based on their gender identity or gender expression. Barnard College is committed to providing an employment, learning and campus living environment free from discrimination or harassment. Anyone who may have been subjected to sex or gender-based discrimination or harassment (“gender-based misconduct”), sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, or stalking (together referred to as “misconduct”) is encouraged to report these incidents. Upon receiving a report, Barnard College (“the College”) will respond promptly, equitably, impartially, and fairly. In addition, the College will take steps to prevent the recurrence of the alleged misconduct and to correct its effects. Individuals involved in misconduct covered by this procedure may request academic, residential, or work accommodations by contacting the Director of Nondiscrimination and Title IX. For more information, please contact Barnard’s Director of Nondiscrimination and TItle IX, Dr. Elizabeth Scott-Francis, at escottfrancis@barnard.edu. LGBTQIA+ Initiatives on Campus Student Experience and Engagement hosts monthly meetups for students of color, students who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, and asexual (LGBTQIA), and students who identify as queer students of color. The meetups are a space to connect, build relationships, and share experiences and resources with people who share these identities. We’re excited to see you at our community meetups! If you have any questions, need more information about any of the programs, or would like to collaborate or share/exchange ideas, please don’t hesitate to contact Jenn Nival at jnival@barnard.edu. October Is Queer Awareness Month Queer Awareness Month (QuAM) is a collaborative effort between Barnard College and Columbia University. QuAM strives to celebrate queer identities and increase awareness about lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues and history. Recognized annually in October, QuAM features an Opening Reception, the First Friday series, special events for National Coming Out Day, and much more! If there is LGBTQ+ community-specific programming that you’d like to see, please don’t hesitate to reach out to studentlife@barnard.edu. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262