Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information The Barnard Degree The Curriculum On This Page On This Page Overview The First-Year Experience Physical Education General Education Requirements Choosing a Major The Senior Thesis or Project Electives Choosing Your Classes Your academic journey at Barnard is shaped by the innovative Foundations curriculum. Exhilaratingly rigorous yet flexible, Foundations hones your ability to skillfully interpret information, think critically, and powerfully communicate your ideas. With Foundations, you will explore disciplines across the arts and sciences and master different Modes of Thinking, including a distinct technology requirement that sets Barnard apart. How the Curriculum Works Barnard’s curriculum allows you to forge your own path. To satisfy Foundations, you will take general requirement courses across a range of disciplines — allowing you to explore your interests and discover the field you want to major in. “I had such a hard time deciding what I wanted to major in, but my professors encouraged me that my experience at Barnard would give me the tools to think critically, work hard, and fight for myself and that these skills would be useful in any position, career-wise or not, moving forward.” — Emma Cunningham ’20, English major The First-Year Experience You’ll launch your intellectual journey with a two-semester sequence of intensive seminar classes. Composed only of Barnard students, our small and collaborative women-centered classrooms are what makes a Barnard education unique. The Seminars First-Year Writing: Critical Conversations In this seminar, you’ll read challenging literary texts and develop fundamental skills in analysis and writing that will prepare you for college coursework and beyond. Learn More First-Year Seminar: Special Topics or Reacting to the Past Tackle challenging material, often across fields, as you develop your ability to read critically, speak clearly and effectively, and write logically and persuasively. Developed by faculty based on their research interests, First-Year Seminars give you a strong jumping-off point for your coming years at Barnard by allowing you to choose an interdisciplinary topic aligned with your interests. Learn more Barnard history professor Mark Carnes pioneered the game-based teaching and learning experience Reacting to the Past. Since its inception, hundreds of colleges have implemented the experience, leveraging role-playing games to absorb the nuances of classic texts and wrestle with thorny issues. Here, present-day Barnard and Columbia undergraduates play “Defining a Nation: India on the Eve of Independence, 1945.” Physical Education The Physical Education requirement allows students to pursue their personal interests and learn the importance of regular participation in physical activity in the pursuit of wellness. Interested in building your core strength? Want to take a break from the world and finally take some yoga? General Education Requirements During your sophomore year, you’ll expand on and strengthen the critical thinking and writing skills that drove your first-year experience. The General Education Requirements weave together Distributional Requirements and Modes of Thinking. This intersection encourages you to explore multiple disciplines before picking your major and helps you make connections between topics and subjects. You can also choose electives that support and extend your interests. Distributional Requirements You start exploring your Distributional Requirements in your first year. They’ll expose you to the disciplines, approaches, and skills that together form a Barnard education. Certain courses may even satisfy the requirements within your major. You’ll take 2 courses in: Languages (must be in the same language) Arts and humanities Social sciences Sciences (one with lab) The Distributional Requirements cover a wide spectrum, with each category offering dozens of course options. Interested in pursuing STEM? Maybe a class on scientific writing can expand your viewpoint. Love to dance? Maybe a lab in human anatomy is right for you. Filmmaker? A lab in screenwriting could be a good fit for you. » Courses currently satisfying these requirements Prof. María de la Paz Fernández takes her introductory neuroscience class from textbook to reality by bringing physical human brains and brains from other species into the classroom. Modes of Thinking The six Modes of Thinking are at the heart of the Foundations curriculum. They emphasize the dynamic process of thinking over the certainty of knowing. You’ll take one course in each of the following: Thinking Locally — New York City: Inside and outside of the classroom, you’ll examine your community and environment to better understand the significance of local context. Thinking Through Global Inquiry: You’ll consider communities, places, and experiences beyond your immediate location, expanding your perspectives on the world and your place in it. Thinking About Social Difference: Examine how difference is defined, lived, and challenged, and consider disparities of power and resources in all their manifestations. Thinking With Historical Perspective: These courses challenge you to look at the past with fresh eyes by examining the ways in which historical context shapes and conditions the world. Thinking Quantitatively and Empirically: You’ll gain exposure to numbers, data, graphs, and mathematical methods — sharpening your critical thinking and problem-solving skills. Thinking Technologically and Digitally: Discover new ways of learning that open up innovative fields of study, including computational science and coding, digital arts and humanities, geographic information systems, and digital design. » Courses currently satisfying these requirements “You’ll look at the Course Catalog and fill your schedule with 70 credits before remembering you’re human and no, you can’t take four classes at the same time.” — Willa Smith ’20 How to Request a Course to Fulfill a GER After completing a course, you may submit an appeal for a GER designation via the Student GER Appeal Form. If approved by the COI Sub-Committee of Student Appeals, the form is submitted to the Registrar’s Office and your degree audit is updated. Please note that only courses with at least 3 credits are eligible for GERs. Reference this page if you'd like to get a better understanding of the Modes of Thinking. If you are appealing for Nine Ways of Knowing, please reference the aims on this page in the Online Course Catalog. The Office of the Registrar handles any GER appeals for summer or transfer courses. Choosing a Major Don’t be surprised if you end up picking a major that has nothing to do with what interested you when you first arrived on campus. Your time at Barnard will introduce you to new fields of study that excite you. With support from your advisor, you’ll decide on a major that will anchor your remaining study at Barnard. Each of the College’s 50-plus majors and programs engage you in a thorough analysis of your subject and high-level content. See Areas of Study “Your major does not dictate your career path.” — President Sian Leah Beilock The Senior Thesis or Project After three years of interdisciplinary breadth and disciplinary depth, you’re ready to take on your senior project: a semester- or year-long endeavor that represents the culmination of your work in your major. Your senior project could be a written thesis, a creative project, supervised original research in a lab, or even research within a dedicated senior seminar. Senior projects are often presented at a campus-wide event, and abstracts for all senior theses are collected and published. Electives The number of electives you take will vary and may include a minor or prerequisites for professional school. They may be adjacent to your major, intersect with it in an innovative way, or offer an opportunity to try something completely different. Whichever way you go, you’ll have a full menu of courses from which to choose. Choosing Your Classes How to choose? Speak with your class dean or faculty advisor Explore what the different departments and programs at Barnard offer Check major and minor requirements, course listings, and detailed Foundations requirements in the course catalog Search the Columbia directory of classes for courses on both sides of Broadway Visit the Office of the Registrar website for detailed instructions on registering for classes Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262