Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information How to Apply Transfer Applicants How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Students are welcome to apply for transfer admission to Barnard if they have completed 24-60 transferable credits at another institution following high school. If a student anticipates completing fewer than 24 credits, they must apply as a first-year student. For more details and information about how Barnard evaluates transfer credits, please see our Transfer Credit Evaluations page. Application Review Philosophy Learn about why you might want to transfer to Barnard, how best to prepare yourself for admission, and how we read applications contextually and holistically. Application Deadlines: Fall and Spring Admission Barnard allows transfer students to apply for entry either in our Fall or Spring Terms. The required application materials are the same regardless of the entry term for which students apply. To learn about the differences in available financial aid between Fall and Spring Term entry, please see our Financial Aid website. Fall Term Admission Students applying for Fall Term admission will begin their time as a Barnard student in September. Application Deadline: March 1 Mid-Term Report Deadline: April 1 Rolling Notification: After May 1 Spring Term Admission Students applying for Spring Term admission will begin their time as a Barnard student in January. Application Deadline: November 1 Mid-Term Report Deadline: November 15 Rolling Notification: After December 1 Application Materials Required Application Materials Common Application: The Common App will include personal information such as the school you attend, your extracurricular activities, and your college classes. It will also include the Personal Statement that will be sent to each school to which you apply. Barnard Writing Supplement: This will be submitted along with your Common App. Supplemental essay questions may change from year to year and will become available each year in summer. The supplemental essay questions for Spring 2022 and Fall 2022 admission are: What factors encouraged your decision to apply to Barnard College, and why do you think Barnard would be a good match for you? If you could plan and lead a semester-long college seminar, what academic topic would you choose and why? $75 non-refundable application fee or fee waiver request: Application fees are submitted through the Common App. To request a fee waiver, complete the Common App Fee Waiver subsection within the Personal Information section of the Common App. If you are unable to complete the Common App fee waiver, we also accept NACAC waiver requests. Official final high school transcript: Please contact your high school to request your official final high school transcript. This transcript must include your full graduation date and an official signature or school seal. For those who have taken a high school equivalency exam, the official diploma and test subject transcript must be sent in lieu of high school documentation. Visiting the testing agency's website for details. Barnard accepts GED, TASC, and HiSET to satisfy high school equivalency. Official college transcript(s): Please request that your college send us your official transcript. If you have attended multiple colleges, official transcripts must be sent from each college. College Report: This is a Common App form available for download under the Program Materials section. It must be completed and submitted by a college official who has access to your institutional record (Dean, advisor, Registrar/Records Office, etc.). Official SAT or ACT scores: For information about how test scores are evaluated, score choice, and more, please view Barnard's standardized testing policies. Please note that students applying for Spring/Fall 2021, Spring/Fall 2022, or Spring/Fall 2023 do not need to submit the SAT or ACT in accordance with our temporary test-optional policy. For more information, please see our Temporary Test-Optional FAQ page. If you do choose to submit test scores, please note that we require official SAT or ACT scores sent directly from the testing agency. In addition to sending official test scores, we recommend that you self-report your test scores within your application under the Standardized Tests subsection in the Common App's Academic History section. This will ensure a timely processing of your application. One academic letter of recommendation: We require one letter of recommendation from a professor or faculty member who has taught you in an academic class within the last year. Course descriptions: Please submit a comprehensive list of the official course descriptions of all courses from all colleges in which you have been enrolled. Descriptions should be retrieved directly from your college's course catalog/bulletin and clearly marked with the course title. Course descriptions can be compiled into a Word document and uploaded to Common App under the Program Materials section. Failure to submit course descriptions will delay the review of your application. These descriptions will be used in evaluating course credit for all admitted transfer students. Mid-Term Report: This is a Common App form available for download under the Program Materials section. The report is completed by your current instructors to report your in-progress grades at the time of application. If your school is on a quarter or trimester system, please submit the grades you received for the most recent term. If you are not currently attending college, you do not need to submit this form. For students applying for Spring admission, Mid-Term Reports are due on November 15th. For students applying for Fall admission, Mid-Term Reports are due on April 1st. Official TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo English Test Scores: Students who meet our international applicant definition are required to submit official scores from one of the English proficiency exams listed or meet our waiver criteria. Please visit our International Applicants webpage to learn more about our English Language Proficiency requirements and see if you are eligible for a waiver. Optional Application Materials Supplementary portfolios: Students may choose to submit supplementary portfolios containing film, photo, drawing, painting, sculpture, music, dance, theatre, or creative writing for review via Slideroom. Please note that supplementary material will not be reviewed by Barnard faculty and during high volume periods, we cannot guarantee it will be reviewed by the Admissions Committee. Barnard does not require supplementary portfolios or auditions from any of our applicants, regardless of intended major. Additional letters of recommendation: Students may request letters of recommendation from up to two additional sources outside the required academic recommendation. If you choose to request additional letters of recommendation, we recommend that they come from a different perspective than your previous letter, such as a high school counselor/teacher, employer/supervisor, research mentor, or club advisor. Additional Information: Students are welcome to use the “Additional Information” component to add anything else they would like the Admissions Committee to know that may not fit elsewhere in the application. If there are circumstances that may have affected your academic performance in school, the extracurricular activities you were able to pursue, or any other topics, we recommend utilizing this section of the application. In the Common App, proceed to the Personal Information section > Other Information tab > and scroll to “Additional Information”. If you would like to provide context related to the COVID-19 pandemic, there is a separate COVID-19 option within the same section for this particular information. How to Send Documents Transcripts We accept official high school and college transcripts through the following methods: Electronic document delivery services (Parchment, National Student Clearinghouse, Naviance, etc.). If a destination address is requested, please input transfer@barnard.edu or admissions@barnard.edu. Emailed by the school to transfer@barnard.edu Mailed by the school to our office: Barnard College Office of Admissions 3009 Broadway New York, NY 10027 College Report Submitted by a college official via email to transfer@barnard.edu Mid-Term Report Emailed by the professor to transfer@barnard.edu or Uploaded by the applicant through their Barnard Applicant Portal Course Descriptions Uploaded to the Common App under the Program Materials section Academic Evaluations and Additional Letters of Recommendation Uploaded by the recommender through the Common App after invited by the applicant or Emailed by the recommender to transfer@barnard.edu Financial Aid and Transfer Applicants Because of limited funding available, Barnard considers financial need when reviewing admission applications from transfer students who are U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents. Fall transfer applicants are reviewed with an awareness that financial need may be a factor in a student’s ability to attend. These students are eligible for both Barnard College grant aid and for federal and state aid. For those transfer students who are admitted with financial need, Barnard remains committed to meeting full demonstrated need in our financial aid packaging. Barnard does not offer institutional financial aid to Spring transfer students. Federal student loans and state aid are still available to students who qualify for them, but students who require additional aid to attend Barnard are encouraged to apply for admission for the Fall term instead. Barnard is unable to assist international transfer students with financial aid. Frequently Asked Questions I have been out of school for a number of years. Do I still need to submit a College Report or academic letter of recommendation? Yes. Individuals applying to Barnard as transfer students are required to submit a College Report and a letter of recommendation from a college-level faculty member* who has taught you in an academic setting. Unfortunately, letters of recommendation from employers and high school teachers cannot be submitted in lieu of these requirements. If you feel these recommendations would supplement your application, we will accept employer or high school teacher recommendation as a supplement to the required academic letter. *We recognize that transfer students come to Barnard College from a wide range of colleges and universities. Therefore, students who have the most personal contact with Teaching Assistants may find it more appropriate to ask a TA for a letter of recommendation. Can I schedule an interview? Interviews are not part of the transfer application process. We invite you to convey to us within the context of the short answer questions or the lengthier application essay any information that you feel we should be aware of in evaluating your candidacy. Is on-campus housing guaranteed for transfer students? While the College always hopes to be able to house as many applicants as possible, housing is not guaranteed for new transfer students. Prioritization for housing depends on a combination of deposit date and geographic distance from campus. The numbers of spaces in singles and/or rooms that do not require participation in a more comprehensive meal plan are typically limited. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262