Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Community Safety Safety Tips Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Be Alert, Stay in Communication BASIC Safety is both an individual and community effort. Barnard's CARES staff are dedicated to providing a safe and secure environment conducive to learning for students, faculty, staff, and visitors on the Barnard College campus. In addition to providing security, fire safety and emergency management on campus, senior administrators of the Department conduct crime awareness seminars and personally assist students requiring police reporting, response, or other assistance. This page offers preparedness and safety information to help our community make informed decisions in the community and on line. Safety as a Community Transportation Options & Information Emergency Blue Light Call Boxes Red Lion Safe Haven Locations Bicycle Safety On campus, Barnard Community Safety provides Community Safety Officers (Security Guards) on campus patrol and Access Attendants staffing occupied Barnard Residential Buildings. The CARES Response Team assists with non-emergency (including matters that may include concerning experiences, time sensitive but not imminent threat of harm) campus needs and supports emergency response on campus. Within the Morningside Heights area, both the New York Police Department (NYPD) and, in the nearby parks, the City of New York Parks Enforcement Patrol (PEP) Officers provide a safety presence. Columbia University Public Safety has Security staff patrol in and around Columbia buildings. In the surrounding area, NYPD and PEP Officers continue to provide increased presence within and at the perimeter of Morningside and Riverside Parks in the 26th Precinct. This may mean a heightened presence of NYPD vehicles in the neighborhood, at times with their emergency light bar flashing. Visit the College pandemic response site for the most up to date information on current health and safety expectations on campus. Although much has changed about NYC since the start of the pandemic, safety practices and awareness are recommended. Safety as a Community Help ensure your safety and support a safe community by being familiar with these recommended tips: When traveling in a group, have a plan and do not leave anyone behind. Always tell someone where you are going and when you are expected back. When meeting someone for the first time, go with a friend nearby, and meet in a populated public place. Have an exit plan, think about how (and when) you will get home. Exercise caution when walking about, especially after dark, late at night, and/or in areas unfamiliar to you. Use well-populated, well-lit streets. Know where you are, where you're headed, and how to get there. Planning in advance makes it easier to remain aware. Always be alert and aware of your surroundings. Whether in a crowded area or places new or familiar, it is important to stay attentive to what is occurring nearby and what options exist for getting assistance, if needed. Limit distractions of constant cell phone and technology use, high volume of ear buds while traveling; lack of attention can create opportunity for someone intent on theft or can lead to missed cues of nearby incidents. Report observations - to the station attendant, after the fact to CARES or Columbia Public Safety. Sharing information is helpful. Listen to your instincts, if you feel uncomfortable, seek out a populated well-lit area such as stepping into an open store or restaurant. In Morningside Heights, look for businesses that display the Red Lion logo in their window. If you enter these businesses, the merchant will assist you in phoning Community Safety, Columbia's Public Safety, or the police, and wait with you for a security response. When using the subway, do not ride in the last car. Look for the white and black “zebra board” above the platform, which shows the location of the conductor’s car. Look for the subway stations with the Green Bulbs at the entrance, these indicate stations open (a red bulb indicates exit only) Do not expose expensive items while in transit. Secure valuables (cash, cards, tech devices) in an inner pocket or within your bag. Have your fare available for your travel needs - whether using a metro card, the Omny app, or another linked payment device. Watch out for scams, in person, via email, and on the web, check the source of information, seek clarification if something sounds too good to be true Think twice before giving out your phone number, address, or email address to people you have recently met. Be cautious about giving out your birth date, social security number, or other information that can be used for identity theft. If you are lost or without means to return to campus, call Community Safety at (212) 854-3362 and we will assist you in navigating your options. Make sure you save this campus phone number in your phone contacts directory for ease of use, if needed. If you have questions or are in need of assistance, do not be afraid to ask for it. As residents of New York City, we live in one of the safest cities in the world. Using these safety tips will enhance your safety wherever you travel. NYC.gov provides additional New York City safety tips. Enhanced safety patrols are provided in Morningside Park with Parks Enforcement Patrol (PEP) Officers in the park daily. Emergency Blue Light Call Boxes There are several Blue Emergency Lights located throughout the Barnard campus and nearby affiliated campuses to provide an immediate response to you if you need help or if you feel threatened in any way. Call boxes have a red button and a blue light above the box. Look for the blue lights near campus buildings and in the lower-level tunnels of Barnard buildings. Red Lion Safe Haven Locations The Public and Community Safety Departments of Columbia, Barnard, and Teachers College collectively maintain Blue Light Emergency Call Boxes at locations within and surrounding the greater campus area. If you are in need of help or feel threatened in any way, use one of these call boxes which connect directly to Barnard's, Columbia's, or Teacher College's public safety departments. Red Lion Safe Haven Locations can be found online to learn more about participating businesses in the Morningside, Manhattanville, and Medical Center Columbia communities. Transportation Options & Information Need a safe and free alternative to walking alone at night? In partnership with Columbia University, we now offer an on-demand ride share option through VIA Ride Share. Barnard Evening Transportation CU Intercampus Shuttle CU Evening Shuttle CU Shuttle App Bicycle Safety While out and about, remember bicycle safety: How to secure a bike NYC Bike Safety tips Bike rack locations on Barnard's campus are located near the main entrance and inside the 119th Street gate (near the Diana Center). Additional locations on the Columbia University Campus. Cable locks can be cut. If you need a bicycle lock, Columbia Public Safety offers discount Kryptonite Bike Locks at cost, Credit / Debit cards accepted. For more information or to set up an appointment to purchase, please email Columbia's Crime Prevention team at: ps-crimeprevention@columbia.edu Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262