Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Residential Life & Housing > Housing Options Columbia Students Living at Barnard HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Eligibility CC & SEAS students who are eligible for Columbia Room Selection may register for Barnard Room Selection. Students may only select as part of groups where 50% or more of the group are BC students. CU students who are Room Selection eligible may also be pull-ins for Barnard RAs and Barnard students receiving disability accommodations (prior to Barnard Room Selection). In order to “balance the exchange” (i.e. maintain an equal number of CU students living at Barnard to match the number of BC students living at Columbia), CU Housing Services may assign CC or SEAS students from the Sophomore Summer Wait List, new Transfer students, etc. to CU@BC designated spaces. Columbia students who live in Barnard housing as part of the BC/CU Housing Exchange will continue to be eligible for Columbia Room Selection in the future (pending they meet all requirements for eligibility). Where can CU students live at Barnard? Eligible CU students may live in the following buildings: 600 W 116th Street 616 W 116th Street 620 W 116th Street 537 W 121st Street 601 W 110th Street Cathedral Gardens Plimpton CU students who identify as male may live in Barnard Housing, but only in suites where the entire suite is being selected/filled during Room Selection (cannot be pulled into “partial” suites). Cancelling Housing CU@BC students who wish to cancel housing must follow Columbia's deadlines and policies. Housing Period & Move In / Move Out CU@BC students may occupy housing for the same time period as Barnard students living in Barnard residence halls (which may not match the occupancy dates for Columbia housing). See Important Dates for move-in and move-out dates. Students with programmatic responsibility for the New Student Orientation Program (NSOP), ex. Orientation Leaders, may be given permission to move in early; however, early move-ins based on reasons of convenience are typically not available. In rare cases, CU@BC students may receive permission from Barnard to move in early and must pay a $100 per day fee to Barnard (requests must be submitted to & approved by Barnard, not by Columbia). At the end of the academic year, non-graduating students will be required to move out within 24 hours of their last scheduled exam or the published check-out deadline (whichever is earlier). Extensions for reasons of convenience are not available. Students with approved extensions for extenuating circumstances must pay a $100 per day fee to Barnard (requests must be submitted to & approved by Barnard, not Columbia). CU@BC students who are not continuing in their Barnard room assignment for the Spring (ex. graduating mid-year, studying abroad for the Spring, moving back to Columbia or off-campus, withdrawing from the University, etc) must move out of Barnard housing before the start of Winter Break. Extensions are not available. The residence halls remain open during Fall, Thanksgiving, and Spring Breaks, but are officially closed for Winter Break. Residence Hall Access CU@BC students are provided with an ID sticker for their residence hall when they move in. This sticker allows them access to and the ability to sign in guests to their assigned residence hall only. CU@BC students who wish to visit other Barnard residence halls must be signed in as a guest of that residence hall. Check Out Fines CU@BC students are responsible for returning their room to the same condition it was in when they moved in (including cleaning their room and/or moving furniture back to original positions). Students will be responsible for any damage or cleaning fines assessed. Additionally, students will be responsible for any improper or late check-out fees and/or replacement charges for lost or non-returned keys. Fines & fees will be assessed for Barnard by the CU Housing Office on your SSOL account. May & August Interim (Summer Housing) CU@BC students who wish to bridge housing prior to the start of Summer Housing (either at Columbia or Barnard) must apply for May Interim housing at Barnard and would pay the BC May Interim fee to Barnard. Similarly, Columbia students with a Fall room assignment at Barnard who wish to bridge housing after the end of Summer Housing (either at Columbia or Barnard) must apply for August Interim housing at Barnard and would pay the BC August Interim fee to Barnard. Winter Break The Barnard residence halls are officially closed for Winter Break. See Winter Break for closing and reopening dates. Students may apply for Early Winter Return, to return to housing early. See http://barnard.edu/reslife/winterbreak/early-return for more information. Permission for Early Winter Return is not guaranteed and approval should not be assumed. Students should plan accordingly in case their request cannot be approved. A limited number of students may be approved for Winter Break Housing (for the entire break). Note: Plimpton will be the only residence hall open during Winter Break. CU@BC students are not automatically approved for housing during Winter Break or for the Early Winter Return period. Room Changes Selecting into a specific space in Barnard housing as part of the Housing Exchange is intended to be an academic-year-long commitment. Thus, room changes for CU@BC students within Barnard housing are typically not available. Requests may be considered in special circumstances, but Barnard students will be prioritized for vacancies first and any changes must be approved by Columbia Housing Services. Students who wish to move back to the Columbia campus must receive permission from Columbia Housing Services. Requests for a CU student to move from a Columbia residence hall to the Barnard campus will considered only in rare circumstances and are dependent upon on the balance of the BC/CU Housing Exchange count. Housing Policies CU@BC students will be required to sign a Barnard Housing Contract (in addition to a Columbia Housing Contract, for billing purposes) and must follow all Barnard College & residence hall policies. CU@BC students who violate Barnard (or Columbia) policies will be referred to the Columbia Office of Judicial Affairs and Community Standards (OJA) for adjudication; however, they may also be asked to meet with the Barnard Hall Director or Associate Director responsible for their Barnard residence hall to discuss the impact of their behavior on the community. Mail & Packages Columbia students living at Barnard must receive their mail through their mailbox at the Columbia Mail Center. Mail and/or packages cannot be accepted if addressed to your Barnard residence hall. Internet Access CU students living at Barnard should connect to the "Barnard Guest" WiFi network (because they do not have BC network accounts & passwords). According to the BCIT Student Computing office, connections to the "Barnard Guest" network as just as secure and safe as "Barnard Secure." Note: Students living in 601 W 110th St and 121st Street connect to the Verizon FIOS cable modem in their suite via WiFi. The SSID & Password for your suite's cable modem is available on the Barnard Housing Portal (click my.HOUSING > Room Assignment). Note: Students living in Cathedral Gardens connect to the Spectrum Cable WiFi in their suite. For instructions, log into the Barnard Housing Portal and click my.Housing > Room Assignment. Facilities Work Orders Something wrong in your room, suite, or hallway? Please email Facilities@barnard.edu with a detailed message, including your Name, Building & Room number, what the issue is, and please identify yourself as a CU student living in a BC residence hall. For emergencies (Mon-Fri 8am-5pm), please contact Facilities Services directly at 212-854-2041. After 5pm and on weekends, please contact Barnard Community Safety at 212-854-6666. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262