Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Your Path. Your Purpose. Student Jobs Image More than 800 students pursue student jobs each year. It's a great way to build your professional network, develop valuable transferable skills and earn extra money. Many receive financial aid awards through Federal Work Study and Barnard College Jobs, both of which allow students to receive funding through their work. Beyond Barnard administrates all paperwork and processes for applications to jobs, and collaborates with cross-campus supervisors to facilitate the posting of positions. Students Student Job Categories On-Campus Employers and Affiliated Employers Search and Apply in Workday On-Campus Jobs: open to all Barnard students. Off-Campus Federal Work Study (FWS): open to students with FWS. FWS jobs are part of a subsidized employment program and typically offer community based nonprofit job opportunities. Independent Contractor Jobs Search and Apply in Handshake Students do not need to complete employment forms (W-4, WTPA, etc.) for the specific job types below, which are compensated directly by employers. Students are required to claim earnings filing taxes each year and pay taxes on the money they earn. Off Campus Paid Opportunities: These jobs may consist of clerical positions, bookkeeping, housework, and etc. Babysitting: All Barnard students have access to babysitting job postings. Families interested in posting babysitting jobs on Handshake should email Beyond Barnard to request instructions. Volunteer and Unpaid Internships Off-Campus Unpaid Opportunities: positions can be found in Handshake. Apply for Jobs Workday Workday is Barnard’s online platform for on-campus and FWS off-campus or America Reads/America Counts student job opportunities. All other job postings, such as babysitting positions, can be accessed on Handshake. Workday is also the system for entering and approving timesheets, processing payroll, submitting direct deposit information and accessing previous paycheck and timesheet details. Students can also reference current FWS award balances. Required Paperwork Beyond Barnard requires new student employees to submit the following forms in Workday to complete the hiring process and start entering time: I-9 identity and employment verification, IRS W-4 and New York State WTPA (Wage Theft Prevention Act). During the hiring process, the student will be emailed and alerted within Workday to complete these forms. The information below is provided for reference purposes only; all forms should be submitted after logging in to Workday using a CAS Columbia account. The I-9 is not complete until identification documents are submitted via this Google form or reviewed by Beyond Barnard (Elliott Hall) by appointment. I-9 Form The I-9 (Employment Eligibility Verification form) only needs to be completed the first time a student works at Barnard through Beyond Barnard. Students must submit acceptable ID via this Google form and are not allowed to work until this step is completed. W-4 Form Students must complete a W-4 (Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate form) the first time they are employed on Barnard's campus. If they claim exempt, they must update their W-4 every calendar year. If you are a Nonresident Alien, please review these supplemental instructions to assist you in completing your W-4. WTPA Form The WTPA form (Wage Theft Prevention Act) must be completed each calendar year. There is a different WTPA form for hourly and stipend positions. Special Forms If you are a Columbia University student employed by Barnard College, or if you are an international student (both F-1 and J-1 visas), there are additional forms that may be required. Contact beyondbarnard@barnard.edu for more information. Columbia Students If you are a student at Columbia University but have been hired by an employer at Barnard College, you must fill out a Columbia Hire Request Form. International Students Visiting international students on J-1 visas are eligible to work as student employees in an on-campus job for up to 15 hours (either Barnard and/or Columbia campuses), as long as they are in good academic standing. Students may be eligible to work off-campus through "Academic Training," a benefit of the J-1 visa, but they must first discuss this with the International Student Services Office in Milbank 10. If you are an international student on an F-1 or J-1 visa, you will need to fill out a Social Security Verification Form. Statement of Confidentiality Barnard College Employers are strongly encouraged to require their student employees to sign Statements of Confidentiality. The Barnard approved Statement of Confidentiality form found here has been approved by the Beyond Barnard office and Barnard General Counsel, and protects the College from breaches in confidentiality regarding technology, intellectual property and the privacy and rights of students, staff and faculty. Paid Family Leave Waiver New York State Paid Family Leave (PFL) went into effect on January 1, 2018. PFL is a state-mandated program that provides employees with partially paid, job-protected leave in certain circumstances. The New York PFL benefit is funded through minimal deductions from employee paychecks. By statute, the weekly contribution rate is 0.126% of an employee’s weekly wage. This maximum contribution is $1.65 per week per employee. You may be eligible to waive the PFL benefit and payroll deductions if your regular schedule is less than 26 consecutive weeks (6 months) or 175 days in a period of 52 consecutive weeks. If you wish to waive the PFL benefit, please complete the PFL-Waiver Form within Workday. For more information on PFL, go to the New York State Paid Family Leave website. Income Tax Information Access Your W-2s and Pay Stubs You can now access your W-2 and pay stubs on iPay. Disclaimer Disclaimer Information for students and employers Beyond Barnard is is not responsible for the safety, working conditions, wages or other aspects of off-campus employment. We make no particular recommendations, representations or guarantees regarding employers or positions posted herein. Workday's system acts as a free job posting service. We do not research the integrity of each organization or individual person who lists a job with us. It is the individual’s responsibility to research the organizations to which they are applying. Individuals are advised to use caution and common sense when applying for any position with an organization or private party. All hiring and compensation for work performed by student employees is handled directly between the student employee and the employer. All students who respond to off-campus job postings are considered independent contractors and are not endorsed by Beyond Barnard or Barnard College. Beyond Barnard does not perform background checks on student job applicants. As such, employers are encourage to request job candidate reference information as needed to establish qualifications, credentials and overall fit between the employer and job applicant. Use of this system shall be entirely at the risk of the users hereof and the College expressly disclaims any and all liability with respect hereto. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262