Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Communications Design and Production Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Whether you’re creating a poster or newsletter, a research report or a brochure, the design and production team will work with you from the inception of a project to the end to create materials that best reach your target audience and reflect the visual identity of the College. Steps for requesting printed materials: 1. Complete the Design Request Form You must submit the design request form for both newly designed materials and updates to existing design projects. If you have any questions, email: lbuonaiuto@barnard.edu or call (212) 854-7522. A few things to keep in mind: Submit text/copy and images. You must submit a Word document including the final, proofread text in your publication. You may also submit images in the following format: pdf or jpg. Whether we incorporate this artwork into your piece will depend on several factors: 1) you must have express permission to use the image from the copyright holder, and 2) the image must be of a resolution high enough to meet printing requirements. If your image does not fit this criteria (or if you’re not sure of its resolution), you may still send it & we will do our best to find comparable artwork. Please note: failure to secure permission could result in fines that will be passed on to your department. Quantity. As a rule of thumb, we suggest that you order 10% more than you think you’ll need, especially if you’ll be mailing the piece. Budget. Three rounds of design and revision are provided free of charge. (Additional expenses may apply if your project exceeds three rounds or if you require custom photography or illustration. For more information, see “Additional revisions”.) Your department will be charged for the cost of printing and mailing. We will present you with a price quote, which you’ll need to approve before the project can proceed. For projects exceeding $500, Barnard Purchasing requires you to secure a P.O. before work can be released to the printer/vendor. 2. Review the Design & Make Edits Review the first proof. Please allow 7 business days for a first design draft. The first design proof is your opportunity to make necessary revisions to the design, artwork, layout, and text. Review the second proof. Within 2-3 days of receiving your first round of edits, we will send you a second design proof. Changes to this proof should be smaller in scale. Elements of the design, including artwork and layout, should be finalized here. Review the third and final proof. This is your opportunity to cross every ‘t’ and dot every ‘i’. Here, you’ll want to review the text one last time to make sure everything is perfect. Please note: we do not provide proofreading services, so catching mistakes before the publication is sent to print, is your responsibility. Additional revisions. After three rounds of revisions, your project will be turned over to a freelance designer, who can make any additional changes you may need. The cost of this type of freelance work usually runs between $50-$75/hour, which will be billed to your department. 3. Mailing (if applicable) Our production director will develop a production schedule to meet your mailing deadline. If Communications is coordinating your mailing fulfillment, mail lists must be emailed directly to production director at least 5 days before printing begins. 4. Enjoy Your Publication! FAQs What kind of material can the design team help create? The design team assists in creating all types of visual images, such as event posters, brochures, newsletters and research reports that best reflect your department’s message and Barnard’s visual identity. How far in advance should I send the design team my request? This depends on the type of project you’re requesting and how far in advance you need the material. We recommend a window of 3-4 weeks before your distribution date for print projects and 5-10 days for digital projects. How much does the process cost? Who pays for printing, the communications department or my department? We will present you with a price quote for approval before the project begins. Promotional material for events on the Barnard Events Calendar are paid for by the communications department; all other design requests must be paid for by the department. For projects exceeding $500, Barnard Purchasing requires you to secure a P.O. before work can be released to the printer/vendor. How do I receive a quote for my design? Submit a design request form. We will reach out to the printer and present you with a price quote for approval before the project begins. What should I include in the design request form? Please include the project name, the deadline for final art or printed materials, your contact & department name. Finally, upload a Word doc including all final text/copy/instructions for the design team. What kind of image can I use in my promotional materials? The best image file format is a JPEG (images cannot be extracted from a Word document). Image files may be uploaded via the request form. Or if providing images at a later time, you can email the image file(s) to design@barnard.edu. The image file should be at the size you want it to appear in the printed piece with a resolution of 300 dpi. Please note: You must have express permission from the copyright holder to use the image. Failure to secure permission could result in fines that will be passed on to your department. I want to update an existing design project, do I still need to submit a design request form? Yes, please submit a new design request for both newly designed materials and updates to existing design projects. What happens after I submit my design request form? The design team will schedule the work to be done to complete your request. If your request requires additional information, we'll reach out to you. Depending on the complexity of the request, the first design proof will be emailed to you within 5-7 business days. Within 2-3 days of receiving your feedback, we will send you a second design proof. Changes on this proof should be smaller in scale and design elements should be finalized. After you review the third and final proof, we'll set up the files for the printer and/or send you the file(s) for your digital request. How much time do I have to review each design proof? Typically, departments take up to 24 hours to review proofs, however this may change based on the scope of the project and the deadline. What happens if I need something changed after three rounds of revisions? If you are not satisfied after three rounds of revision, your design will be passed on to a freelancer* who will make the additional edits/changes. *Freelance fees will be charged to the department requesting changes. Will the design team proofread my project before it is sent to print? The design team does not offer proofreading services. You are responsible for catching all errors before your product is sent to print. Where do I receive the product after it has been sent to print? Printed materials will be delivered to the college Receiving department. You will be notified to schedule a time to pick up your materials or have them delivered to your department. Posters for events promoted in the Barnard Events Calendar will be distributed by Barnard Communications. Is my department required to use the design and production team to create products? (Can't I just make a poster on Microsoft Word?) Our products can help you better appeal to your audience and properly represent the visual identity of the college. If the product is for external use, to be displayed off campus, we recommend using the Communications design team. If it is an internal poster for Barnard only you are welcome to use our services or create it yourself. Posters for events on the Barnard Events Calendar are made by Communications design team. Who can I reach out to if I have questions? For questions concerning promoting your department’s event, please email design@barnard.edu, Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262