Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Communications Social Media Guidelines Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging About These Guidelines Barnard College welcomes the use of social media to interact with and inform the general public and the Barnard community in support of the College’s educational mission. These guidelines are intended for staff, faculty, and students managing social media accounts that represent Barnard administrative units, departments, centers, and initiatives, as well as official student groups, clubs, and organizations. If you are in an administrative or faculty role and overseeing a social media account on behalf of your area, please familiarize yourself with these guidelines. In advance of establishing new College-related accounts, please contact Communications' digital team at digital@barnard.edu for initial guidance on developing a strategy for your social media presence. Using social media effectively requires committing time and resources to the initiative on an ongoing and consistent basis so do consider whether existing accounts can be used to get out your message. The Office of Communications maintains Barnard’s official College-wide accounts on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn, and other key platforms. Where needed, individual departments may create their own social media accounts. Before doing so the department should consider its goals and ability to maintain the account effectively. Official Use of Social Media Unless specifically authorized by the Office of Communications or designee, no College employee may create an official College presence on any form of social media, now in existence, or created in the future, or represent themselves as a spokesperson or authorized representative of the College. Any existing websites or pages that represent the College are reviewed routinely and may require amendment, or, when necessary, removal. Employees assigned to operate an official social media presence must consult with the Office of Communications and comply with these Guidelines developed by the College, which may be amended from time to time. Applicable Barnard Policies Please adhere to all applicable Barnard policies as well as the terms of use for any social media platforms you are using. Relevant Barnard policies may include (but are not limited to) the following: Data Privacy Policy Acceptable Use Policy Student Code of Conduct Policy on Intellectual Property and Copyright Creating and Managing a Social Media Presence Work with your supervisors and the Communications' digital team to determine if creating new social media accounts can advance your department goals. Communications can assist with developing a social media content strategy and provide guidance on managing your accounts. Select an appropriate name for your presence that clearly and simply identifies the connection to Barnard. Use this webform to request approved social media profile avatars that follow Barnard’s visual identity guidelines. Designate an account administrator with the primary responsibility for overseeing the account, as well as a backup administrator. Make sure that your account passwords are kept secure and accessible to those in the department who may need them if regular administrators are unavailable. Please create a strong password for your social media account, and change your passwords at least every six months. The College may request administrative access to social media accounts to provide further backup. When starting out, concentrate on a single account and assess from there. Planning and Creating Social Media Content Social media posted on behalf of the College should help to advance the mission of the College. Social media posted on behalf of the College should be effective, appropriate, and respectful. An effective post provides benefit to your audience while also helping to advance your departmental goals both in alignment and advancement of Barnard's mission. An effective post informs, enlightens, entertains, reminds, and starts a conversation with your audience. An appropriate post is relevant to department goals or areas of expertise, and communicates in a style that is appropriate for your area’s public image. A respectful post is created with consideration for how your words and actions may affect others. Please see the section below on “Inappropriate Social Media Content” for boundaries on social media content. Keep in mind that content posted to college-related accounts represents your area, but also reflects on the College as a whole. Managers who delegate the drafting of social media content to student workers should review and approve content before it is posted. Student group advisors should regularly review social media content and plans for the clubs, groups, and organizations they oversee. If you are planning a student takeover of a social media account as a special promotion, confer with the Communications digital team on best practices well in advance. Managers should communicate 1) guidelines to their staff regarding who is approved to represent the department on social media and 2) notification procedures if staffers see posts about the department that requires tracking and/or a response. Separate the personal from the professional. Content that is appropriate to share with your personal followers may not appropriate for your department’s followers. When in doubt, err on the side of caution and keep personal material off of your department account, whether it is original content or shared. Planning posts in advance using a calendar can help you maintain an active presence. Share or repost content posted by other reputable accounts that aligns with your goals and message. Be aware that sharing without adding any commentary implies that you fully approve of the message you are sharing. Viewers may infer associations from various aspects of the shared post including the account being shared as well as the content, links, and hashtags. Protect confidential and proprietary College information. Maintaining Your Social Media Presence Be prepared to experiment, measure success, and change direction based on what you learn from your audience. Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn offer built-in analytics so you can see what content is most popular. Carefully check your spelling and grammar when drafting text for your post. Double-check names and account handles. Watch for typos and check links. Don’t use more than three hashtags in a post (unless you’re using Instagram). Be obvious, honest, and transparent when managing your account. Posts may be difficult to permanently delete or edit once they are posted, so be careful when you create your post. Make corrections quickly, visibly, and publicly if you unintentionally post inaccurate information. If you catch an error within one minute of posting and your account does not have many followers, you can delete the post. Otherwise please post a corrected version. As a best practice, proceed as if a full history of posted content, edits, and deletions is always visible to users (and not just limited to certain platforms). Interact with your community. Social media is all about engagement. Offer your audience insights and interesting information that’s unique to your area of expertise. Respond to commenters in a timely manner. Monitor your account. If you see inappropriate comments being posted to your account, please notify the director of digital strategy to coordinate a response; do not respond on your own. An inappropriate comment is one that is obscene, defamatory, offensive, threatening, abusive; promotes unsafe behavior, spam, and/or advertising; and/or is unrelated to the content under discussion. Be forthcoming on your page or account about if and how comments are moderated. In the event of an emergency or crisis situation, managers of official Barnard accounts are asked to retweet or repost only official information provided by Public Safety and/or the main College social accounts. Official accounts are asked to postpone any previously scheduled posts during an emergency. Closing a Social Media Account If you decide to close a social media account, please consult with Communications. It may be worthwhile to direct users to another Barnard-managed account that would be relevant to their interests. Separating Your Personal Social Media Accounts We ask that members of the Barnard community identify your personal social media accounts as personal accounts; In some cases, community members maintain several social media channels, with some for personal use and others for official Barnard business. Please use care to separate the two uses and do not use College outlets to distribute personal communications. In the interest of transparency, employees who use personal social media channels to talk about work or College-related matters are asked to disclose their affiliation with the College. Employees are encouraged to add a disclaimer to their social media accounts stating that their thoughts are their own. For instance, on Twitter, users can use the “Bio” field to note that the views and thoughts expressed are their own and do not reflect the views of the College. Personal communications that may be reasonably seen by a third party as being representative of or conducted on behalf of the College should be clearly noted as being personal and not an official communication from the College. Inappropriate Social Media Content The College reserves the right to remove posts or comments that are obscene, defamatory, offensive, threatening, abusive, consisting of spam and/or advertising, or are unrelated to the content under discussion. Barnard College also reserves the right to remove posts or comments that interfere with an individual’s dignity and rights to privacy; promote dangerous or unsafe activity; violate applicable laws including, but not limited to copyright and trademark; or those that violate the use policies promulgated by the applicable social media provider. If a social media post comes to the attention of the Office of Communications for review, Communications will contact the social media manager for more information and may request an edit or deletion of the post. The supervisor of the social media manager will be included on communications. In the event of a disagreement, the Senior Staff member of the area involved will also be consulted for input. The College will act to protect its intellectual property, including official marks and copyrighted material, from misuse or abuse. The College will act to prevent any person or group from misrepresenting their affiliation to the college. Violation of these social media guidelines will be enforced in accordance with the Enforcement section of the Barnard College Acceptable Use policy. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262