Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid On This Page On This Page Understanding Your Financial Aid Types of Aid Calculating the Cost of Attendance & Grant Aid The Family Contribution Parent & Student Contributions The Self-Help Component Loan & Payment Options Barnard-JTS Double Degree Students Study Abroad Students Financial Aid & Your Bill Understanding Your Financial Aid Barnard College meets full demonstrated need for eligible students. Financial need is established from the difference in the cost of attendance and the estimated family contribution. Students must reapply for aid each year in order to reevaluate a family’s ability to pay. Back to Top Types of Aid Barnard offers several types of awards and resources to meet a student’s demonstrated need. The type of aid offered is dependent on the student’s eligibility as determined by the financial aid application. Barnard College Grant Barnard Grant is need-based funding provided by Barnard College. Barnard Grant does not need to be repaid and is awarded based solely on a student’s demonstrated financial need as determined by the Financial Aid Office. Federal Grants Federal grant eligibility is determined by the FAFSA. Federal grants include the Pell Grant and the Supplemental Education Opportunity Grant (SEOG). State Grants New York state residents may be eligible for a Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) grant. Eligibility for the TAP grant is determined by information from the FAFSA as well as the NY State TAP Application. New York residents who transfer their FAFSA data to the Higher Education Services Corporation (HESC) will receive notification to complete a TAP application after submission of the FAFSA. The Financial Aid Office will confirm TAP eligibility during the financial aid review process. Please note: Students may also complete the TAP application directly through the HESC website. Outside Scholarships Many students receive scholarships from outside organizations and agencies, such as merit-based scholarships, community scholarships, high school scholarships, employer tuition benefits, and veterans’ benefits. All outside scholarships are used to reduce or replace the self-help component of the financial aid award, which is composed of the loan and job award. Scholarships in excess of the self-help component will reduce the Barnard Grant by the excess amount. Outside scholarships do not reduce the family contribution. More information on our outside scholarships policies can be found on our General Policies page. Student Employment To help fulfill self-help requirements, Barnard offers the following: Federal Work-Study Program (FWS) Priority for participating in the FWS Program is given to students demonstrating the greatest need. This is a federally funded program and is only available to students receiving grant aid from the College. On- and off-campus jobs are arranged through Beyond Barnard. Barnard College Job Program Barnard provides a variety of on-campus jobs with priority given to students receiving aid directly from the College. Loans Families may borrow federal and/or private loans to help finance each year at Barnard. Learn more about federal and private loans. Calculating the Cost of Attendance & Grant Aid The Financial Aid Budget Students’ financial aid packages are based on total educational costs incurred during the academic year. The Financial Aid Office will use the following budgets for students in 2021-2022 to determine the eligibility of each applicant. These budgets are called the cost of attendance. Resident Commuter Tuition and Fees $60,087 $60,087 Room and Board* $18,486 $1,800 Books/Supplies $1,150 $1,150 Miscellaneous $1,370 $1,370 Total Basic Budget $81,093 $64,407 +travel +travel The above cost of attendance is for the full year. Any changes to the cost of attendance may also impact a student's eligibility for aid. Barnard also gives each student an allowance toward travel to and from the College. For resident students who live outside of New York City, we determine an allowance individually. For commuting students who require one fare each way for subway/bus, we allow $900. For those who commute by train or by bus other than New York City subway/bus, we allow an amount to equal eight monthly commutation tickets plus one round-trip subway fare each day. The Financial Aid Office realizes that even though the above allowances are realistic, they may not reflect the exact expenses incurred by each student. The combined allowances will permit the student to meet her expenses at Barnard for the academic year. Any cost incurred above these allowances must be assumed by the student and her family. Calculating Grant Aid The following formula is used to determine a student’s financial aid awards: Total Cost of Attendance -Total Expected Family Contribution -Total Self-Help (Job and Loan recommendations) _________________________________________ = Total Grant (Total Grant refers to Barnard Grant, federal grants, state grants, etc.) The Family Contribution The Family Contribution is the amount Barnard expects the student and parent(s) to contribute toward educational costs each academic year. Families may choose from a variety of payment and loan options to meet these costs. Back to Top Parent & Student Contributions Parent Contribution The parent contribution for Barnard aid is based on information supplied on the FAFSA, CSS Profile and documentation of all income and assets. A family’s total income is calculated by adding all sources of income*. In cases of divorced or separated families, the incomes from both parents are considered to determine the total family income. Parental assets considered include cash, savings, investments, trusts, home equity, other real estate equity, and business equity. *All sources of income includes income from partnerships, corporations and other businesses. Untaxed sources of income may include tax-deferred pension contributions, Social Security benefits, child support received, tax-exempt interest, etc. Student Contribution Students are expected to contribute toward their college expenses from summer student income and a portion of any assets. The Self-Help Component The Self-Help portion of the financial aid package includes a recommended loan and job award based on year in school. Students may use any outside scholarships from external organizations to replace this portion of the package. Back to Top Job Awards Your job award may include either of the below: Federal Work-Study Program (FWS) Priority for participating in the FWS Program is given to students demonstrating the greatest need. This is a federally funded program and is only available to students receiving grant aid from the College. On- and off-campus jobs are arranged through Beyond Barnard. Barnard College Job Program The Barnard College Job Program supports any student wishing to work on campus for the academic year. Campus jobs are arranged through Beyond Barnard. Student Loans Students typically borrow the loan portion of their self-help from the federal government via the Federal Direct Stafford Student Loan Program. A recommended loan amount will be included in the financial aid package based on the student’s year in school. Annual maximums are $3,500 for first-year students, $4,500 for sophomores, $5,500 for juniors, and $5,500 for seniors. More information can be found on our Apply for Loan page. Outside Scholarships As of Fall 2022, Barnard has updated our outside scholarship policy. Outside scholarships will be used to reduce the recommended loan and/or student contribution portion of your package. If the outside scholarship exceeds the self-help amount, the Barnard Grant is then reduced dollar for dollar. The outside scholarship cannot reduce the Family Contribution. If you are the recipient of a scholarship from an outside agency or foundation, you must inform the Financial Aid Office in writing and upload a photocopy of your scholarship notification letter to your Barnard Application portal. For additional information regarding our outside scholarships policies, please visit our General Policies page. Loan & Payment Options Additional Loan Resources Federal Direct Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students (PLUS) PLUS loans are available to parents who would like to borrow all or a portion of the family contribution. PLUS loans carry a fixed interest rate (currently at 6.28% for loans first disbursed on or after July 1, 2021, and prior to July 1, 2022). Repayment begins 60 days after full disbursement or parents may request a deferment to delay repayment until after the student graduates. Private or Alternative Loan Programs Barnard encourages students to exhaust all federal loan options before considering any private loan funding. Families can contact our office for guidance on loan options. Payment Plans Barnard offers a monthly payment plan that divides your semester balance into five monthly payments. More information on the payment plan can be found on the Bursar’s Office website. Barnard-JTS Double Degree Students Jewish Theological Seminary Double Degree Students must submit a financial aid application to Barnard in order to be considered for financial aid at Barnard. Students eligible for a Barnard Grant will receive a financial aid letter from Barnard that outlines the combined budget from both schools and the awards from both institutions. Aid is adjusted based on the number of credits the student plans to take at each school every semester. Awards are finalized when enrollment is confirmed in late spring/early summer for the Fall. For more information on financial aid for the Double Degree program, please visit the Jewish Theological Seminary Double Degree Program website. Barnard-JTS Double Degree Program Information Study Abroad Students Students who have been approved to study abroad for the semester or academic year will receive financial aid decisions based on their study abroad budgets. While the Family Contribution does not change, the Financial Aid Office will adjust the student budget to reflect the different costs associated with studying abroad and revise the grant accordingly. All students who receive financial aid are required to meet with a financial aid counselor to discuss their study abroad budget during the study abroad application process. For information about study abroad budgets and billing procedures, please visit the Financial Aid for Study Abroad Students page. Financial Aid for Study Abroad Students Financial Aid & Your Bill The financial aid award letter is not the same as your actual bill. The financial aid award letter outlines your family’s expected contribution for both billed and non-billed expenses, but it does not specify the final amount you will be charged each semester. The Bursar’s Office will release your fall bill in early July, and it will be due August 1. Your spring bill will be released in early November and will be due December 1. Please visit our Financial Aid & Your Bill page for a guide to how financial aid is applied to the bill, as well as information on payment options. Financial Aid & Your Bill Financial Aid Office Website Financial Aid General Policies Contact Us Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262