Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Visiting International Students Program Frequently Asked Questions | VISP Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Application and Visa How do I apply to VISP? An online application is available only to students nominated by the designated coordinator from the following universities. The deadline is September 15 of each year. There are several requirements for admission. What if my TOEFL/IELTS score does not meet Barnard’s minimum requirements? If your TOEFL/IELTS score does not meet Barnard’s minimum requirement (100 TOEFL; 7 IELTS), it may still be possible for you to be admitted. If you are ultimately accepted, we will require you to take a placement test through Columbia's American Language Program upon arriving on campus. Depending on the score you receive, you may be required to take an English language course through ALP, in addition to the academic courses you would be taking in the Spring. What kind of visa do I need in order to come to Barnard through VISP? All VISP students come to Barnard on J-1 visas. Once you have been accepted, you will be asked to submit a number of personal and financial documents. We will review these materials and issue you a DS-2019. This is a formal U.S. government document you need to present to the U.S. Embassy/Consulate in your home country in order to be issued a student J-1 visa for study in the U.S. For more information about the process to obtain your student visa once you are admitted, click here. Can I extend my time in New York or the United States beyond the end of the semester? Students may stay in the United States up to 30 days after the program end date as indicated on their DS-2019. If a student wishes to stay longer, she must extend her J-1 visa. For more information, please contact Diana Sierra. Can I work and earn money while I am there? Yes, you may only work on-campus for up to 20 hours per week if you are in good academic standing. You must first be approved to do so by Diana Sierra. You may be able to work off-campus if there is demonstrated economic necessity, but you must first discuss this with the Office of International and Intercultural Student Programs. Can I get a summer internship? If so, how do I get my visa extended? On your DS-2019, the program end date is listed as June 1, after which you have 30 days to leave the country. However, you may apply to extend your visa if you: apply for and are offered a summer job or internship IN YOUR MAJOR FIELD OF STUDY (this is called Academic Training) submit proof of this internship offer and other application documents to the Office of International and Intercultural Student Programs by May 1 are in good academic standing get a letter of support from your academic adviser maintain a valid passport, I-94 card, and DS-2019 can prove that you have sufficient funds to subsist in the US for the duration of the internship (at least $1500/month, + return travel to home country) If you are interested in getting a summer job or internship in NYC, you may search for available opportunities through the Office of Career Development's online job and internship database. Note: if you are offered an internship and are granted an extension of your visa, you may also apply to remain in Barnard OR Columbia housing for the summer. Housing and Meals Can I get an apartment in New York while I am there? All VISP students are required to live on-campus for the length of their stay. No exceptions will be made. What type of campus housing should I request? There are several things to consider when deciding which type of housing to request. First, would you like a roommate, or would you prefer to have your own room? Note that roommates may be full-time Barnard students or other VISP students, depending on vacancies in the residence halls. Second, would you prefer to be in a room along a corridor with many other rooms, or in a suite (apartment) - style arrangement? Is it important for you to have a kitchen? Once you have thought about these questions, read more information on Barnard’s residence halls to decide which residence halls you'd like to preference on your housing form. Assignments will be based on where space is available for the Spring semester (note: the number of single rooms is usually limited and most VISP students are assigned to shared bedrooms with other students). What is the guest policy in the residence halls? All Barnard students are permitted, with valid BC ID, to enter any Barnard residence hall: Elliott, 110th Street, Cathedral Gardens, Plimpton, 600, 616, and 620 West 116th Street, Sulzberger, Brooks, Hewitt, and Reid Halls. Columbia students, accompanied by a resident of the building, must be signed in as a “guest” with the access attendant in order to enter. All non-Barnard students must also be signed in as a “guest” with the access attendant each time they enter, and are only permitted entry into their host’s residence hall. Guests are expected to visit for a limited period of time, and any guest who is a “long-term” or “permanent” visitor may be denied access. Read more information regarding the Barnard guest policy Will I be living just with other international students? VISP students will be housed throughout all of Barnard’s residence halls, as room availability permits. We ask that students submit their housing preferences by a date provided so that we may try to accommodate requests. However, we cannot guarantee that requests will be granted. Will Barnard provide bedding and supplies for me? If not, where will I be able to buy bedding and things for my room? You should either bring bedding or order online and have it shipped to Barnard or pick up once in NYC. During Orientation week in January, you will have the opportunity to purchase your own linens. There are many stores throughout New York City that sell bedding and dorm room supplies. Target, Bed, Bath and Beyond, Amazon and various shops are popular among students and also deliver. How long after the semester finishes can I stay in my dorm room? The latest possible date a student would be able to stay in her dorm room is the day exams finish. If you wish to remain in Barnard housing for the summer, you will need to pay additional housing fees and you may need to change rooms. Learn more about summer housing. What type of meal plan should I select? Where you live will affect what meal plan you choose but you will also want to choose your meal plan if you want flexibility in where to eat on campus and do not plan to cook your own food. If you want to live in a suite with a kitchen (for example, in Plimpton, 600's, Cathedral Gardens, etc.), you might want a plan that would allow you to prepare your own food. If you know that you want to eat in the dining halls and do not want to cook your own food, the Platinum Plan might be best for you. More on meal plans can be found on the Dining site and on the Bursar site for costs under "Meal Plans". What is the difference between "meals" and "points"? Meals can be used for breakfast, lunch, or dinner in Barnard's or Columbia's dining halls. Meals are buffet, all-you-can-eat style. Points are more flexible - they are loaded onto your student ID card and can be used just like dollars on Barnard's campus. Points cannot be used on Columbia's campus, but students can purchase dining dollars once they arrive on campus. Dining dollars are also loaded onto your student ID card and can be used on both campuses. Courses How difficult are the courses? Barnard is an elite, highly-competitive liberal arts college and offers courses that seek to challenge and inspire its students. Barnard students take courses at both Barnard and Columbia, and they take a range of courses from large lectures to small seminars. While the emphasis placed on classroom participation varies among professors, in general, student involvement is encouraged and comprises a considerable part of a student’s final grade. Students may visit professors and lecturers during office hours, which are typically held for 2-4 hours each week. Faculty may also be available by phone or email, or by consulting the Department Assistant. Can I take any course offered through Barnard/Columbia? Barnard students are free to enroll in classes on both the Barnard and Columbia campuses. Like all Barnard students, VISP students are eligible to take the following courses during the spring semester: Courses designated BC, C, V and W Courses numbered from 1000 through 4999 VISP students are not eligible to take any course designated G, K, I, J U or any other letter, or any course number beginning with 6000 or higher Can I register for classes before I arrive? VISP students cannot sign up for classes before they arrive; course registration (called “program filing”) at Barnard begins after students arrive on campus. The first two weeks of the semester are considered a “shopping period”, during which students can try out various courses, in consultation with their advisers. All students must have their final programs approved by their advisers by the second Friday of the semester. What types of classes should I be choosing? VISP students can take courses in a wide variety of departments while at Barnard. Ultimately, student course choices will be influenced by home department policies. Please note that generally speaking, the number of a course (1000 through 4999) indicates the level of the course. Courses numbered 1000-1999 are generally less advanced that courses labeled 2000-2999, which are less advanced than courses labeled 3000-3999. Courses labeled 4000-4999 are hybrid undergraduate/masters courses. Also note that generally within the ranges just described, there is no difference in level (for example, a course labeled 3900 is not necessarily more advanced than a course labeled 3002). For more detail about individual course offerings, see the Columbia Course Catalogue. How many points should I be taking? Your J-1 visa status requires you to take a minimum of 12 points. What if I want to take more than 12 points of course work? You may certainly take more than 12 points, but keep in mind the following: courses at Barnard may require more frequent written assignments and quizzes than you are accustomed to at your home institution, and, therefore, may well require more time on your part. If you overload on courses, you may not be leaving yourself enough time to explore New York City, extracurricular activities at Barnard and U.S. culture in general. You will of course want to verify the number of credits required by your home institution, but in most cases our VISP partners are aware of the tremendous workload required in a 12-point program at Barnard. There are two courses that I am very interested in taking, but they overlap by ten minutes; the e-Bear system let me enter both on my program. Does this mean that I can leave one class early to attend the other? Even though the e-Bear system may not “catch” the time conflict, you may not take classes that overlap with one another. Check this carefully when you are planning your program. Leaving a class early or arriving late on a regular basis may result in your failing the class. If you wish to petition to take two back-to-back courses or two courses with a minimal time conflict, you need to petition the Committee on Programs and Academic Standing (CPAS) through the Registrar’s office. I would like to take most or all of my classes using the Pass/D/Fail option; may I do that? Although there is nothing written in Barnard policy that prevents this, taking more than one class Pass/D/Fail per semester is seriously frowned upon, except in cases of extraordinary personal problems or illness. Students who opt to take more than one course Pass/D/Fail are flagged by the Registrar’s office and will be asked to explain their reason for doing so to the academic dean for VISP students. Please also be sure to research your school's policy on accepting Pass/D/Fail credits. Note that once a course is declared P/D/F, it is final and unchangeable. Can I take Engineering courses through VISP? VISP students are not allowed to take Columbia Engineering courses while at Barnard. Students may choose courses from among the many liberal arts departments Barnard offers. What documentation will I get after my semester at Barnard? VISP students will receive an official transcript of the classes taken while at Barnard and Columbia. The transcript will be sent to the coordinator at the student’s home university. You may request an additional transcript through the Registrar's Office for a fee of $7.00 plus shipping costs. Campus Life Can I get involved in campus activities while I am there? Barnard offers a wide range of events, and cultural, performance, pre-professional and special interest clubs and organizations that are available to all students. A full listing of these clubs and organizations is available. Are there male students at Barnard? Although Barnard is an all-women's college, almost all classes are available to both Barnard and Columbia students. For this reason, many classes are co-ed, as males from Columbia have the freedom to explore academic options here at Barnard and vice versa. When is the earliest I can arrive at Barnard in January? Classes begin on Tuesday, January 18, 2022 and move-in to the residence halls and our Orientation program will be held the week prior (exact date has not yet been released). You will need to arrange for your own transportation from the airport to Barnard; please email VISP@barnard.edu for more information about transportation, check-in, etc. If you cannot arrive by 5 pm, you will need to stay in a hotel or hostel for the night, and arrive the following morning after 9 am. For a list of possible places to stay, email VISP@barnard.edu. Am I guaranteed an internship while I am at Barnard? While students are not guaranteed internships, there are plenty of opportunities for student employment on campus and unpaid internships throughout New York City. Students should consult the Office of Career Development to find a listing of potential internship positions. When does the semester start and end? What about vacations? Please see the Academic Calendar. Can I stay beyond the initial semester at Barnard? Currently, VISP is only a one-semester program, which takes place during the Spring semester. For this reason, students will not be able to remain at Barnard for additional semesters. General Questions Is there someone who can answer my questions specifically about Barnard and VISP? Please email all questions to VISP@barnard.edu, and someone will respond to you shortly. My university is interested in becoming involved in VISP; how can I get more information on creating a VISP partnership with Barnard? For further information, please contact VISP@barnard.edu with information about your university and why you are interested in participating in VISP. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262