Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Residential Life & Housing > Residence Hall Handbook 2022-23 Housing Contract HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Policies Procedures Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety 2022-23 Barnard Housing Contract The Housing Contract is signed electronically when students apply for housing on the Barnard Housing Portal. Students who are 16 years old or younger at the time of signing must also submit a signed copy of the Housing Contract along with a parent or guardian's signature. The Housing Contract is a legal agreement between you and Barnard ("Barnard" or "College") and contains important terms and conditions about your rights and responsibilities while living in College housing. The Contract contains provisions that impose financial obligations and/or other responsibilities and/or penalties should you fail to fulfill your obligations. Please read the Housing Contract carefully. By signing, I acknowledge having read and accept all terms & conditions of this housing contract. I understand that violations of these terms & conditions may result in termination of this contract, loss of housing privileges, repair or replacement costs, fines, and/or other disciplinary actions. Terms and Conditions The following terms and conditions for residence in Barnard College housing apply to all Barnard College, Columbia University, and visiting students residing in Barnard College housing during the 2022-2023 academic year. The Contract period begins when a student signs the Housing Contract and ends when the residence halls close at the conclusion of the 2022-2023 academic year. All references herein are to Barnard College offices or personnel, and "BC" or "College" refers to Barnard College, unless noted. "RL&H" refers to Residential Life and Housing. "CU," "Columbia," and "University" refer to Columbia University. BC students living in CU residence halls and CU students living in BC residence halls as part of the BC/CU Housing Exchange are subject to the terms and conditions of both the Barnard and Columbia Housing Contracts. The Contract does not constitute a lease and is not subject to New York State landlord-tenant laws; it confers a limited and revocable license to occupy College housing. This license can be revoked by Barnard College as outlined in the Contract. The College uses Barnard email to communicate to students regarding all official matters. Students are expected to communicate with RL&H using their College email account. College housing may be directly affected by NYC Local Law 11 required façade renovation, including (but not limited to) demolition, construction, and other noise-producing work. While the College will take measures to minimize the impact of required work initiated by the College, residents must be prepared to accept the unavoidable inconveniences of private, city, state, or federal-initiated work which may take place in close proximity to College housing. Eligibility Only full-time registered matriculated students of the College and approved visiting students who are in good financial and disciplinary standing may occupy College. Students who are approved for part-time enrollment or who begin the Columbia portion of a 4+1 or 3+2 dual-degree program are not eligible for College housing. Some Columbia students may be eligible for College housing, provided they meet the requirements for the BC/CU Housing Exchange as defined by both the College and the University. Eligibility for residence does not amount to a guarantee of housing. Continuing students eligible for the Room Selection process must meet all deadlines for assignment to rooms. Incoming first-year and VISP students must meet all deadlines for submitting a housing application. Housing assignments for students in non-Guaranteed application categories (including, but not limited to, incoming Transfer and Visiting students, students returning after a leave of absence, commuters, and students who did not take part in Room Selection) depend on the availability of space in College housing. Students may lose eligibility to apply for or to maintain occupancy in College housing due to disciplinary action by the College. Occupancy Period A resident's right to occupancy shall begin no earlier than the first day the halls are open for each semester, with such dates and times to be announced prior to each semester. Students must check in no later than 5pm on the first day of classes. Failure to do so may result in the loss of room assignment; however, the Contract will remain in full force and effect, including all financial obligations. All requests for late check-in (after 5 pm on the first day of classes) must be submitted in writing to RL&H prior to the start of the semester check-in period. The residence halls are closed at the end of the Fall and Spring semesters and during Winter Break. Residents must vacate their rooms by the published deadlines. Only residents with assignments for both the Fall and Spring semesters and in good financial and disciplinary standing with the College are permitted to leave personal belongings in their room over Winter Break. Very limited Winter Break housing is available to eligible residents for an additional fee, by application only. The College reserves the right to assign any housing space during the Winter Break to an approved resident. The College will provide as much advance notice as possible to residents whose assigned rooms would be occupied by another student during the Winter Break. Room Assignments and Occupancy This Contract is for a space in the residence halls, not a specific room or bed. The Contract remains in full effect in the event of a room change. Although every effort is made to honor requests for a specific room, roommate, and residence hall, space limitations and high demand for specific halls and room types may prevent honoring all requests. Any of the occupants, furnishings, features, capacity, and configuration of the resident's assigned room and/or suite shall be made by the College and may be changed by the College at any time, at its sole discretion. The College reserves the right to reassign residents or consolidate rooms in the interest of order, safety, health, discipline, disaster, and best use of facilities for the good of the College community. In addition, if mediation efforts are not successful, the College reserves the right to reassign any resident to address instances of significant and disruptive incompatibility of roommates. The College will not discriminate in room assignments or any changes on the basis of race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, religious practices, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, socioeconomic status, dietary preferences, physical abilities, and/or age. Most rooms and residence halls require shared occupancy. Residents are expected to communicate and live cooperatively. Room changes will typically not be considered as an effective form of conflict resolution and residents are expected to meaningfully engage in mediation if/when conflicts arise. Only in extreme cases will the College consider a room change to resolve a roommate conflict outside of the Room Change/Swap Request periods. The decision to permit a room change is in the sole discretion of the College. Any resident with a vacancy in their room must keep the space open and ready for assignment at any time. The College has the right to assign a student to a vacancy at any time and reserves the right to move any possessions that may block a newly assigned resident from moving in. Residents who fail to keep a vacant space free of their possessions will be subject to disciplinary action and will be charged for any costs involved in having these items moved. Residents who discourage or fail to accept occupancy by another assigned resident, through (but not limited to) verbal or physical intimidation or creating an atmosphere of discomfort, will be subject to disciplinary action that may include relocation, fines, additional rent, and/or termination of their assignment or Contract. At all times only the resident shall occupy the assigned space. Under no circumstances may a resident move to a different room without prior approval by the College; nor may residents exchange or lend keys to another individual, sublet their room, or provide regular housing to any other person(s). Residents may not duplicate keys. Keys and/or access to a room/suite will not be provided to anyone other than the assigned resident. No commercial business operation, solicitation, sales, marketing, or advertising may be conducted from the resident's assigned room or other campus location and/or using College resources, including (but not limited to) Internet access. Disability Housing Requests and Accommodations Students with diagnosed disabilities and/or medical conditions who may need a housing accommodation must submit a request to CARDS (Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services), including supporting medical documentation, following the published priority deadlines. Students should consult with CARDS staff if needs arise beyond the published deadline or to review their needs and the accommodation request process. Disability housing accommodation requests must be made for each academic year; accommodations are not automatically extended from one academic year to the next. Students seeking a disability housing accommodation must submit a new disability housing accommodation request and provide updated medical documentation for each academic year, summer, interim period, and/or after returning from a leave of absence. Meal Plans Requirements All Barnard residential students are required to participate in a Barnard meal plan. Information about the various meal plans and required enrollments is available on the Bursar's Office website. All First Year residents in College housing (regardless of residence hall assignment) are required to enroll in the Platinum Meal Plan. Upperclass residents with room assignments on floors 2-8 of Brooks, Hewitt, Reid, Sulzberger residence halls are required, at minimum, to enroll in the Flex 150 Meal Plan. Unless residents choose to change to an available meal plan before the Meal Plan Change deadline each semester, the College will automatically enroll the student in a default meal plan determined by their assigned housing location and/or class year. For more information, please visit https://barnard.edu/bursar/meal-plan-faq. Room Charge and Billing The College establishes room charges for the academic year. BC students living in CU housing as part of the Housing Exchange are billed the Barnard room rate and are responsible for payment to Barnard. CU students living in BC housing are responsible for payment to Columbia. CU students will be responsible for payment directly to the College for any damage and/or cleaning fines, key replacements or lock changes, approved early move-in or extensions fees, and/or interim housing charges incurred by their occupancy in Barnard housing. Tuition, room, board, and all other fees are payable semiannually in advance, one-half by August 1 and one-half by December 1; failure to make full payment for the Fall and/or Spring semester by those dates will result in forfeiture of existing assigned space; however, this Contract remains in force. Students who have failed to make timely payment of tuition, room, board, and all other fees and are not planning to live in campus housing are advised to act promptly to cancel the Housing Contract to limit cancellation fees. All students who have signed a Housing Contract are bound by its terms and continue to be responsible for room charges unless and until a release from the Contract is requested and approved and/or any assigned space is vacated as specified. In all events, no student will be allowed to move into or occupy any housing until all College fees are paid in the time and manner established by the College. Non-payment or Delinquent Accounts Policy Failure to pay outstanding balances as required may be cause for removal from College housing or for such other action as may be determined appropriate by the College. The College may refer a student's delinquent account to credit bureaus and a collection agency. Students are responsible for paying the collection agency fee which may be based on a percentage at a maximum of 35% of the delinquent account, together with all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, interest, penalties, and court fees the College incurs in the collection of any delinquent account. This policy applies to all charges assessed by the College. The College will not provide any transcripts, diplomas, or certification of degree until all outstanding balances have been resolved in full. This policy applies to all students and all are required to abide by all terms and conditions. If a student is younger than the applicable age of majority when executing this agreement that the educational services provided by Barnard College are a necessity, the minor student shall be contractually obligated pursuant to the "doctrine of necessaries." Charges are assessed by the College and will be billed to the resident's Bursar account. Failure to pay such charges may be cause for refusal to permit registration or for such other action as may be determined appropriate by the College until sums owed are paid in full. The policy regarding the referral of delinquent accounts for collection also applies to damages and expenses. Any appeal of said charges must be submitted in writing by the resident within 14 days of the charge being posted to the resident's account. Cancellation of Contract by Resident Once the Housing Contract is signed and a housing assignment has been made or guaranteed to the student (whichever occurs first), the student is financially bound to the Contract through the end of the academic year. Residents are not entitled to a release from their Contract because they have been reassigned to another room or inconvenienced by construction, renovation, or maintenance. Residents who fail to occupy their assigned room or who vacate housing during the Contract period without an approved Contract release will be liable for the full amount of their housing charges per the terms of the signed Contract. Residents must submit the Housing Cancellation Form to request a release from the financial obligation of the Contract. Residents who are released from their Contract and/or take a leave of absence must vacate College housing within 48 hours. Residents who fail to timely vacate housing shall be subject to additional fees and/or disciplinary action. Depending on the effective cancellation date and type of cancellation request, cancellation fees may apply. Depending on the individual circumstances of a Housing Contract cancellation, the semester or academic year housing charge may not be prorated or refunded. The cancellation request form, deadlines, fees, and prorated refund schedules are available at http://barnard.edu/reslife/cancellations. Termination of Contract by the College The College, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall have the right to reassign a resident or cancel a contract at any time when in the best interest of the residential community, including in the interest of safety, order, health, maximum use of facilities, or disaster; or, when a resident: Ceases to be a full-time registered student at Barnard or Columbia due to voluntary or required withdrawal or fail to register by the first Friday of the Fall and/or Spring semester; Fails to fulfill their responsibilities under the housing Contract; Infringes on the rights of others; Puts at risk their own life or the lives of others; Damages the property of others; Fail to pay charges by the College's deadlines; Fails to occupy the assigned space on a full-time basis; Violates terms of the Contract or other College policies; or Is subject to judicial action by a court. The College may impose an interim suspension of a student's right to access housing pending disciplinary or judicial action. In the event of Contract termination or housing suspension, rooms must be vacated within 48 hours. In circumstances of a health or safety emergency, the immediate vacation of College housing may be required. Residents whose Contracts are terminated by the College may remain financially liable for the full academic year housing charge. Condition of Premises By taking occupancy of the assigned space, the resident accepts its condition "as is" at such time and assumes responsibility to maintain the space (and any common areas in which the assigned space is located) and room furnishings and fixtures in a clean, safe, and undamaged condition at all times. Rooms are furnished with a bed, mattress, desk, chair, and dresser / closet space for each resident. Residents are expected to review and sign the Room Condition Report Form (RCR) to confirm the condition of their room upon arrival; if residents fail to complete an RCR their room will be assumed to be without missing items or damage. Students are responsible for cleaning their assigned room, removing waste regularly, placing recyclable materials in designated containers, and maintaining satisfactory sanitation and safety standards as determined by the College. Students assigned to a suite will be responsible for cleaning their shared kitchen space and bathroom(s). Residents may not make any alterations or additions to the structure or mechanical and electrical systems of their assigned space or other College location, including (but not limited to) painting, installation, or fastening of items, or display of signs or banners. Residents are responsible for cleaning their assigned space, removing waste materials regularly, placing recyclable materials in designated containers, and maintaining satisfactory sanitation and life-safety standards as determined by the College. Common areas (e.g. suite or floor kitchens, bathrooms, lounges) are the responsibility of all members in that area, and all residents assigned to that area are jointly responsible for cleaning and maintaining them. The resident shall reimburse the College for all damages or expenses which the College may suffer or incur for repair or excessive cleaning of any residence hall, or for repair or replacement of College provided furnishings, fixtures, and/or equipment (e.g. smoke detectors), caused by the misconduct or neglect of the resident and/or of their guests. Any damages or expenses incurred in a room or facility within the residence halls will be charged equally to all residents of that room/suite or users of that facility unless the responsible person(s) assume specific liability. Residents are required to report any room concerns to the Barnard Facilities office for immediate repair. Failure to do so leaves the resident responsible for any cleaning, repair, and/or replacement costs. Vacate Procedures Residents shall vacate their assigned space, complete a Check-Out Envelope at their residence hall front desk, and return all issued keys by the end of the Contract period (and immediately upon cancellation or termination of this Contract). Failure to check out as prescribed may result in a fine, key replacement and/or lock change fees, and/or disciplinary action. Please note that vacating housing does not constitute a cancellation of this Contract. Upon vacating an assigned space, the resident is responsible for returning their room and/or suite to a condition suitable for another person to occupy (broom swept, cleared of personal items, and furnishings reset to a standard position). Failure to return the vacated space to an acceptable condition shall result in cleaning and/or damage charges to the resident. Any personal items left by the resident after their deadline to vacate will be considered abandoned and shall be disposed of by the College and the resident shall be charged for disposal costs. The College reserves the right to change the locks and/or not allow access to the resident's room or residence hall in cases when a resident has not vacated by the required deadline. Residents shall be responsible for all costs and direct or indirect damages suffered by the College in connection with a failure to check out and/or vacate by the stated deadline. Limitation of Liability The College assumes no responsibility for injury to persons, or loss of or damage to items of personal property that occur in its buildings or on its grounds, prior to, during, or subsequent to the period of this Contract. The College strongly encourages all residents to secure renters' insurance or ensure that their belongings are covered under their family's insurance policy. Resident Liability Residents assume full liability for any loss or damage to the property of the College or others in the community that may be caused by their behavior or actions, including the behavior or actions of their guests. Governing Laws and Venue All disputes regarding the construction, interpretation, and the parties' obligations under this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York, notwithstanding any of that state's laws to the contrary. The venue and jurisdiction for the resolution of any such disputes shall be in the State or Federal courts located in the state of New York. Rules and Regulations All residents are expected to familiarize themselves with and abide by the policies and procedures in the Residence Hall Handbook, as well as all other published College policies. Residents are subject to all federal, state, and local laws. Possession of prohibited items described in College policies may result in disciplinary action and may be confiscated and/or discarded. Residents found to be present while a violation is occurring may be considered participants and may be subject to disciplinary action. These policies outline allowable visitation by guests, and residents will be held responsible for any policy violations by their guests. The resident agrees to occupy the space assigned, and not to permit any part of that space to be occupied by any person not duly assigned or authorized in writing by RL&H. Guests who pay rent and/or guests found through Airbnb or similar arrangements are prohibited. The College reserves the right at any time to terminate, establish, or amend any terms, conditions, policies, and procedures concerning the matters covered herein without prior notice. The Housing Contact, Residence Hall Handbook, and other College policies in the form posted online on the College's website (http://barnard.edu) are the governing documents and may be revised as needed. Smoke-Free Policy Barnard is a smoke-free campus: smoking is not permitted on any Barnard property, including residence halls, campus buildings and grounds. Medical Permissions By accepting residency, the resident agrees that the College and its authorized agents and employees, including RL&H, Primary Care Health Services, and Community Safety staff, may provide or secure medical care in the event of illness or injury that necessitates such care. Medical care may include hospitalization, anesthesia, surgery, and/or other treatment. The resident agrees that the College is not liable for any costs or expenses associated with any medical care provided. The resident acknowledges that in the event of a health or safety emergency the College may release information about the resident to other persons or entities who may need this information to protect the health or safety of the resident or others. Any such disclosures shall be made consistent with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Reserved Rights of the College The College has delegated to RL&H the responsibility for establishing and enforcing regulations governing conduct of residents within the residence halls. RL&H staff may consult with other College administrators in carrying out this responsibility. At the discretion of the College, a resident may be subject to certain conditions for continuing residence. This includes, but is not limited to, a change in room assignments or dismissal from College housing for disruptive behavior including, but not limited to, behavior such that a resident cannot adequately take care of their own health and safety in the context of College housing or is a danger to the health and safety of others and/or the community. The College reserves the right to enter and inspect any room when doing so is necessary for the maintenance of the room or student safety or discipline such as the need to ensure compliance with rules concerning the use of rooms, preservation of clean and sanitary conditions, maintenance, extermination of insects and vermin, fire safety and prevention, compliance with local, state and federal laws or in preparation for upcoming renovation work. Residents may not refuse access to a College employee or contractor required to perform their duties and such refusal may lead to disciplinary action. The College reserves the right to make changes to the policies governing campus housing to ensure the health and safety of the community. The College reserves the right to make changes to a student's room assignment in order to facilitate a quarantine or isolation as may be required by local, state, or federal guidance or authority or the College. The College reserves the right to remove any student from student housing for non-compliance with any College policy or procedure, including those that may be modified or created without advance notice, and the Community Commitment and Personal Responsibility Pledge. Addendum: Minor Residents in College Housing (Minors are defined as students under the age of 17) The purpose of this Contract addendum is to make certain that all minor students and their parent/guardian have a clear understanding of the implications of having a minor live in housing at Barnard College. It is important that all involved parties have a shared understanding of how the College views the presence of minors in the residence halls, and how the staff will approach certain issues, should they arise, in this adult environment. As such, this document must be signed and received by RL&H before the minor will be allowed to move on campus. First, it is our expectation that both the minor and their parent or guardian understand that the minor will be living in an environment that is designed for adult students. College staff, therefore, will not be assuming the role of substitute parents to minors, nor will they monitor minors' behavior or view their choices differently than they would those of residents aged 17 and older. Secondly, it is our expectation that the minor and their parent or guardian have had a discussion of the realities and potential risks of living away from home in an adult environment, and that they have determined that the minor has the maturity to live and function in this setting. We also expect that the minor is empowered and capable of making day-to-day academic and lifestyle decisions and choices on their own. This is extremely important, as the minor will be held accountable for their actions. Both the parents or guardians and minor understand that the minor will be subject to and expected to comply with the same College policies as residents who are 17 and older. If the student is an emancipated minor, the minor may sign and submit the Contract and this addendum without the signature of a parent/guardian, but a copy of the court documents that corroborate their emancipated status must be on file with the College. By signing below, I acknowledge that I have read and accept all terms and conditions of this housing contract. I understand that violations of these terms and conditions may result in termination of this contract, loss of housing privileges, repair or replacement costs, fines, and/or other disciplinary actions. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262