Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Student Research Opportunities Scholars of Distinction On This Page On This Page What is the Barbara Silver Horowitz '55 Scholars of Distinction Program? About Barbara Silver Horowitz Eligibility Scholar Benefits & Responsibilities Frequently Asked Questions Scholars of Distinction Community Important Links What is the Barbara Silver Horowitz '55 Scholars of Distinction Program? The Barbara Silver Horowitz ’55 Scholars of Distinction Program, formerly known as The Barnard Centennial Scholars Program, was established in 1985 to help the College educate extraordinary young women bound for achievement. The Program provides a unique four-year scholarly experience in a cohort with other outstanding students. It offers participants an intellectual community, interaction with special invited guests, occasional special events outside the university setting, funds to pursue research, and a chance under the mentorship of a faculty member or outside expert to create an ambitious final project that will be presented to faculty and peers. The nature of the work produced varies according to the student, as is discussed below, and may or may not be related to their Barnard capstone thesis. Gina Gionfriddo (left front, playwright and former Centennial Scholar) and Shayoni Mitra (right front, Barnard Theater professor) join Scholars and program directors for dinner. Scholars and program Directors "Once on The Island" Based on the 1985 novel My Love, My Love; or, The Peasant Girl by Rosa Guy. Scholar cohort events begin in the student’s first year and continue throughout the Scholar’s time at Barnard. During a Scholar's first two years, these events (often sparked by student suggestions) are enfolded in a one-credit per semester course that is intended to foster community and encourage intellectual curiosity. Activities include attending scholarly events and seminars on campus, visiting off-campus cultural institutions and events, and social gatherings. Scholars often invite relevant faculty to participate in outings and discussions. Every Scholar selects a faculty mentor by the spring of her second year and will work closely with this mentor to define and then plan her research project. Scholars receive funding to utilize during the summers after their sophomore and junior years. This funding allows them the freedom to conduct research or implement their ideas, either on campus or as far afield as they like, depending on the nature of their project. In their third and fourth years at Barnard, Scholars attend some seminars in which they workshop their ideas, research methods, drafts, and presentations with their more junior Scholar colleagues. Most of their work, however, will be undertaken in conjunction with their mentor. To acknowledge the work that goes into creating a polished and original final project, scholars will earn 1.5 credits each semester. About Barbara Silver Horowitz The Barbara Silver Horowitz ’55 Scholars of Distinction Program is supported by the enduring generosity of Gedale Horowitz and the late Barbara Silver Horowitz. Barbara was a graduate of Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn, a member of the Barnard Class of 1955, and received graduate degrees from Brooklyn College in 1957 and Teachers College in 1970. She worked as an Elementary School Guidance Counselor within the New York City Public School system. During her life, Barbara was actively involved with Barnard as an alumna. Her husband, Dale, as he is known, was a 1953 Columbia College graduate and served as a Barnard Trustee from 1976 until 2009. Dale and Barbara met at Barnard, at a Tea Dance in the James Room. Their daughter Ruth E. Horowitz is a 1983 Barnard alumna and current Trustee of the College. Altogether the Horowitzs have contributed nearly a century of outstanding service to the College and visionary leadership that has benefited students, alumnae, and the entire Barnard community. Eligibility Scholars of Distinction are selected as first-year students during the admissions process. Prospective Scholars demonstrate advanced academic achievement and possess the intellectual focus and motivation necessary for creative, independent scholarship. The applicant's high school record, counselor and teacher recommendations, personal statement, and other factors are considered by the selection committee. Scholar Benefits & Responsibilities Jacklyn Lacey welcomes the Scholars to her office at the American Museum of Natural History Benefits: Community and credits Scholars enter the program in a cohort and interact closely with their fellow Scholars throughout their time at Barnard. For their first two years, Scholars participate in a 1-credit per semester seminar that is designed to foster community, intellectual curiosity, familiarity with various methods of inquiry, and connections with potential mentors. Scholars meet two or three times a month and often provide input on readings, guest speakers, and outings. Students are expected to attend all events and meetings. During their third and fourth years, Scholars take part in some seminars, social events and outings. The emphasis, however, is on holding regular meetings with their mentors and self-directed study. For this they will receive 1.5 credits a semester. More advanced Scholars will also workshop projects in progress and receive feedback on their ideas and presentations. A Scholar’s time at Barnard will culminate in a formal presentation of her project. The Scholars meet with Anthropology Professor Zoë Crossland to discuss the activism of the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo concerning the excavation of mass graves of the disappeared in Argentina. September 2018. Benefits: Mentorship and guidance in project development Mentorship is a key component of the Barbara Silver Horowitz ’55 Scholars of Distinction Program. With the assistance of the program directors, mentors are selected and recruited by the students at the end of their second year in the program. Typically chosen from the Barnard faculty—or occasionally from individuals outside the College who have expertise valuable to the Scholar—these individuals are compensated for their participation. Mentors serve as intellectual counselors and guides and are responsible for overseeing a project from its inception to its completion. Mentors and Scholars are expected to meet at least once a month. Initial meetings between a Scholar and her mentor focus upon the development of a project prospectus, budget, and timeline. In later meetings, a mentor will advise the Scholar and oversee the implementation and development of her project. Benefits: Summer funding to help in project development A Scholar’s final project may dovetail with her senior capstone thesis or it may focus on something completely unrelated. In order to encourage Scholars to be as bold and creative as possible in envisioning their project, each Scholar may receive as much as $9000 (not to exceed $4500 in a single summer). With the approval of her mentor and the Program directors, the Scholar may use the stipend in any manner that contributes to furthering or enriching her project. Possible uses include travel, facilitating research opportunities, subsidizing collaborations or production expenses, and the purchase of equipment, lessons, etc. Scholars peruse a catalogue at the Judy Chicago exhibit PowerPlay Responsibilities: To maintain good academic standing throughout their time at Barnard. To regularly attend seminars as well as events scheduled outside of class time (which will normally be determined prior to the start of classes). To compose meditations on select events for the Scholars’ blog. See some examples here. Juniors and Seniors are expected to meet regularly with their mentors, to attend seminar sessions and social events when requested, and to develop an ambitious and creative project. Status in the Scholars Program is contingent on a student meeting the above expectations and providing evidence of their maturity and self-direction. If there are areas of concern, a committee will evaluate the student's continued status as a member of the program. Frequently Asked Questions How many Scholars are accepted per year? Cohort size varies from year to year. Each cohort normally has between 5-8 students. Is it possible to study abroad during my time as a Scholar? Yes! The Program is very supportive of studying abroad. Students would work with the Office of International and Intercultural Programs to plan their study abroad and would keep in touch with their mentor while away. Can I use my summer funds for living expenses if I stay in New York City (or go elsewhere) over the summer? Yes. The funds are designed to help you implement a plan of action that will lead to a finished project. So long as you maintain a good standing in the program and can justify how you are spending the money, it can be used for smaller expenses as well as for costlier expenses (such a travel or helping commission original music for a film score). What types of projects have former scholars undertaken? Our first class will graduate in 2021, and so they are still in the process of formulating their projects. The Barbara Silver Horowitz Scholars of Distinction Program, however, is based on a longstanding Centennial Scholars Program, initiated in 1985. To get a sense of the range and scope of past projects click here. Would it be possible to draw upon my summer funds before I have a mentor? Although scholars are strongly encouraged to save their funding for the summers after their second and third years, this is not a hard and fast rule. Scholars who make a compelling case for why an early use of funds would further a particular project may draw upon their funds after their first year. Can I apply for the Scholar’s Program? Scholars are selected during the admissions process. The committee, made up of Admissions staff and faculty, seek innovative thinkers and students they believe have strong self-direction. There is nothing students need to do to apply—all students will be evaluated for the program. Just compose thoughtful essays, do imaginative things while in high school, and inspire your teachers to write detailed and supportive letters of recommendation. Does the Scholars Program function in tandem with the Financial Aid Office? No. The Barbara Silver Horowitz ’55 Scholars of Distinction Program is not a form of financial aid and is independent of the need-based aid available at the College. All inquiries about the availability of financial aid and that process need to be directed to the Financial Aid office. Program directors have no ability to influence a student’s eligibility for financial aid. Scholars of Distinction Community Scholars End of the Semester Party Fall 2018 Co-Director Professor Debra Minkoff Image Debra Minkoff is the Miriam Scharfman Zadek Family Professor of Sociology. Her broad interests as a sociologist and a citizen are in understanding how large-scale social movements are mobilized and maintained over the long haul, given the many obstacles that exist to contain collective challenges to the status quo. Her earlier research traces the role of national organizations in the development of the civil rights and feminist movements. She has also investigated such questions as how people’s participation in civic and political associations influences their involvement in protest; how funding by elite foundations shapes the field of organizations seeking to consolidate the gains of the feminist and civil rights movements; and how much variety exists in the organizational models available for citizen advocacy at the national level in the U.S. She has also contributed to a study of local immigrant associations in Amsterdam. At Barnard, Professor Minkoff has been active in promoting the college's mission to become a more diverse, inclusive and equitable community. She has served as Dean for Faculty Diversity and Development and co-chaired the President's Task Force on Diversity and Inclusion (2015-17) and the inaugural year of the Council for Diversity and Inclusion (2017-18). Co-Director Professor Celia E. Naylor Image Celia E. Naylor, Professor of Africana Studies and History, joined the Barnard College faculty in 2010. Most of her published work explores the multifaceted connections between African-Americans, “Black Indians,” and Native Americans in the U.S. In her book African Cherokees in Indian Territory: From Chattel to Citizens, she explores the experiences of enslaved and free people of African descent in the Cherokee Nation in Indian Territory from the 1830s to 1907. Professor Naylor is currently finishing another book entitled (Un)Silencing Slavery: Telling Truths about Rose Hall Plantation, Jamaica; it will be published in 2022 by the University of Georgia Press (Gender and Slavery Series). She is also working on a digital humanities project on Rose Hall that will highlight the individual and collective lives of the enslaved people who lived and labored at Rose Hall Plantation. She hopes this overall project will also provide the foundation for integrating and interrogating more critical information about enslaved people and slavery in future tours and materials at the Rose Hall Great House in Jamaica. Professor Naylor has served on a number of committees at Barnard College and Columbia University. She is on the Editorial Board of the Journal of African American History. Due to Professor Naylor's interest in, and commitment to, racial equity and social justice, over the past few years she has been working with the Institute for Strategic and Equitable Development (ISED). She has served as President of the Board of Directors of this non-profit organization since its establishment in 2015. ISED's purpose is to promote impactful grant-making, investments, and economic development in communities of color through strategic planning, evaluation, project management, and technical assistance services. ISED's 2 major initiatives are Inclusion, Diversity, and Equity in Environmental Philanthropy (InDEEP) and the Presidents' Forum on Racial Equity in Philanthropy. Scholars Kena Chavva '22 I was born and raised in New Jersey and am the proud daughter of two Indian immigrants. I am lucky to have grown up in an environment where all of my passing interests were nurtured and taken seriously--that encouragement has turned me into someone with a myriad of academic interests. I'm particularly interested in building more ethical, equitable societies through interdisciplinary studies. I am majoring in English with a History minor, and have a strong interest in film and media studies as well. Beyond academics, I work as a Writing Fellow at the Barnard College Writing Center, I am an avid movie-watcher, and I try my best to take advantage of all the wonderful cultural opportunities that New York City offers. In the past, I have interned at the Maysles Documentary Center and New York Public Radio. Ultimately, I hope to develop a creative writing project that explores the Indian diaspora through the Scholars program! Kathryn Cherven '24 Image I was born and raised in Detroit, Michigan (The Mitten State!). My interests were diverse throughout my childhood, ranging from Harry Potter to One Direction to the NFL. But in high school, I found my true love in theatre as a stage manager. Since then I’ve dedicated countless hours to local theatre companies and productions and found my niche in the theatre that most effectively changes lives; the theatre with its basis in societal progress. In conjunction with this work, I’ve devoted my time to learning about contemporary issues through a historical context. Hence, while I plan to major in theatre, I plan to double minor in history and race/ethnicity studies, because I believe in the power of the arts to build a better world for the most marginalized among us. Additionally, as a French and journalism student, I hope to spend my time at Barnard as a Scholar telling the stories of others from an international perspective. In my free time, I enjoy watching Glee, reading nonfiction, and trying to do my part to change the world. Mia Cucufate '23 I was born and raised in Inglewood, a city located in southwestern Los Angeles County. As a daughter of two Salvadoran immigrants, I was exposed to the hardships that many Central Americans faced as a result of US imperialism and right-wing regimes. As a result, I grew interest in learning about colonialism, imperialism, immigration and diaspora in Latin America. I am a projected sociology major, and I am considering in minoring in Spanish or Latin American studies. During my free time, you can find me visiting art museums, checking out fashion pop ups, thrifting, or at a concert. I also enjoy journaling, reading Marxist philosophy, and writing letters to my pencils. Maggie Forsyth '23 I was born and raised in upstate New York, just outside of Albany. As a child, I was engrossed in the workings of other cultures and societies, and became almost obsessed with studying how people of the past lived and interacted. This interest in the workings of societies eventually shifted from past to present as I learned about current events and the problems most pertinent to modern society. As I grew older, I also became increasingly passionate about art and how self expression manifests in its different forms, all dictated by the creator. In particular, I became fascinated by film and the making of a story. When faced with the question, what do you want to study, or even more daunting, what do you want to be when you grow up? — it took me awhile to come up with an answer. Studying at Barnard gives me the perfect groundwork to become who I truly want to be when I grow up. By combining film studies with Anthropology and Human rights, I hope to help tell the stories of real people in a way that facilitates a more interconnected and understanding world. Shaya Godycki '25 I grew up in Santa Clarita, California-- a small, very conservative Republican town. Growing up in a space dominated by white supremacy and conservative values forced me to be hyper-aware of my positionality as a young, black feminine-presenting individual in the United States and as a global citizen. My lived experiences prompted my curiosity about studying intersections of oppression and how we can dismantle these systems. Exploring this curiosity allowed me to find Barnard’s CCIS department, a department that I plan to study under during my four years here. I plan to double major in both Comparative Literature and Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, along with minoring in ICORE/MORE. I want to use the knowledge that I gain to further my goals of analyzing various axes of oppression, how they intersect, and, especially, how these axes are extended through social exchange and media. Through the courses provided and extracurriculars available, I hope to grow as an artist, an activist, and an author. Outside of academics, I love to watch anime and read fantasy novels along with sketching out characters for my original works. Brenda Huang '22 Born in NYC to a Chinese-American family, I grew up all over the United States, taking more road trips than I could count, before settling down in Pennsylvania. Throughout these travels, my cultural identity and family has always remained vital to me. I’ve continued to explore its representation, as well as my ambitions for a career in law, through Columbia’s Women of Color Pre-Law Society. In addition, I’ve always been passionate about how social activism intersects with visual arts. Between that and my love of storytelling, I’m naturally attracted to comics—both consumption and creation. This manifests itself in my endless piles of sketchbooks, storyboard drafts, and my eagerness to approach nearly everything with an open mind and artistic perspective. At Barnard, I am majoring in Economics with a Sociology minor, and I work as a Speaking Fellow at the Barnard College Speaking Center. You can find my illustrations at The Columbia Daily Spectator, where I am an Illustrations Deputy Editor, as well as my artwork as part of the Bring-Your-Bottle campaign around nearly every water fountain on campus. Harpreet Kaur '23 Image My name is Harpreet Kaur and I am a sophomore at Barnard College, planning to major in Economics and potentially pursuing a combination Human Rights degree and a Philosophy minor. I grew up in Long Island, New York but hail from Punjab, India, culturally. I grew up in a diverse community, where the seeds for my interests in economics and philosophy were planted. My passion for economics really developed from my curiosity about the socioeconomic disparities presenting themselves in various ways in American society. Considering current developments in societal behaviors, where racism, gender inequality, and discrimination are being thought about and challenged in new ways, I am super intrigued to learn more about the consequences on consumer behavior as economic decision-making from the corporate to individual level have significant effects on the lives of consumers, inevitably. On campus, I am involved with CU Sewa, a social justice organization based on Sikh values. We work to educate the Columbia community about Sikhism while performing Sewa, selfless service, and to create a welcoming community for everyone through all walks of life. I also am involved with Smart Women Securities, a club dedicated to educating women about financial literacy with various avenues such as investing in the stock market. My email is hk3089@barnard.edu, so feel free to reach out if you have any questions or would like to connect! Shreya Kumar '24 Image I was born in Racine, Wisconsin, but I was raised primarily in New Jersey. I’m a middle child, sandwiched between a 14-year-old sister and a 20-year-old brother. I go from playing Nerf guns with my sister to talking about the history of the English throne with my brother in the span of an hour. Growing up with two distinct siblings has allowed me to develop a capacity to engage with people with diverse and varied interests. When asked what my favorite color is, I can never pick because I like them all. I love lounging on the beach, but I would never say no to hiking in the mountains. Performing musicals has given me chills; balancing the intense adrenaline rush, your friends and family cheering, and remembering lines and notes is a unique–and addictive–feeling that I can’t dream of giving up. I'm passionate about politics and served Editor-in-Chief of The First Amendment, my high school's political opinions magazine; however, I also appreciate the weekly-deadlines and late night feeds that come with editorship at The Lawrence, my school's daily newspaper. Honors Biology has been one of the more interesting classes I’ve taken in school; I find the correlation between structure and function in organisms and how they evolve to be beautiful, and I admire how simple evolutionary rules lead to complex life forms. In an age when specializing is the norm, I will bring different interests together with classic middle child patience and humor and cultivate them with the Barnard community. Rivka Keshen '22 I was born in a small town in Northwestern Ontario and moved to Beijing when I was eight to be closer to the Chinese side of my family. Growing up amongst First Nations in Canada and seeing firsthand how they were deprived of their basic rights instigated my desire to pursue human rights with a specific focus on indigenous rights. I have also found a passion in theatre ever since my parents signed me up for a Shakespeare play to get rid of my lisp when I was seven. Over the years, I have discovered that theatre can be used for far more than entertainment and that performance holds the potential to retain culture, to be used in a therapeutic manner to help children with mental disabilities, and to push the boundaries of perspectives regarding social issues. These combined interests are what led me to pursue a double major in human rights and theatre with a minor in psychology. At Barnard, I’m part of the Connection Club, bridging my Chinese and Jewish cultures and bringing together Chinese and Israeli students on campus. You’ll also find me sleeping a homeless shelter on Wednesday nights through Housing Equity Project where we have many initiatives to take responsibility for the gentrification in Harlem. Rachel Krul '23 Born and raised in Upstate New York, I was adopted when I was days old by my wonderful parents. I’ve had an interest in public policy for years, and I’ve been involved in activism against gun violence and for voter registration in my own community. My deepest passion and interest, however, lies in refugee and immigrant empowerment. I love learning about different cultures’ approaches to issues relating to our collective shared humanity. I hope to study political science with an international focus along with human rights in order to eventually practice immigration or a non-profit organization. Outside of those goals, I’m interested in film, literature, art history, and acting (specifically in Shakespearean plays). I am also fascinated by anthropology and ancient cultures, especially how the latter our culture today. In my spare time I can usually be found attempting to teach myself a foreign language or finding any excuse to spend time around dogs. At Barnard, I aspire to pursue all of these interests in unique ways and foster new ones as well. Atswei Laryea '25 Hiya! My name is Naa Atswei (or just Atswei) Laryea, and I’m a West-African Washingtonian majoring in Africana Studies here at Barnard College. With the Scholars of Distinction program, I hope to explore the relationship between the math classroom, race, class, gender, and other socio- political constructs. Additionally, I’m interested in music(ology), fashion, and design, and perhaps will find a way to string all of these topics together during my time as a Scholar of Distinction. Though I primarily grew up in D.C., I've spent a lot of time in London (where a large chunk of my family grew up and reside) and consider myself an honorary Black Brit on top of my Ghanaian and Nigerian identity. For my junior year of high school, I went abroad and studied in Rennes, France, and would love to broaden my cultural inventory by studying abroad on the African continent during my time at Barnard. On-campus, I have plans to join Barnard B.O.S.S., Columbia University African Students Association, Hoot Mag, and maybe try my hand at DJing for WBAR. Outside of academics, you can find me chatting with friends and family, going on walks, planning family vacations, or listening to Amapiano on too high of a volume. Camille Marchini '22 I was born in NYC and raised in Tarrytown, New York. I declared the fall of my sophomore year as an art history major thanks to the incredible departments at both Barnard and Columbia. In addition to art history, I have an interest in fashion and its many forms like editorial writing, styling, and design. In high school, I was the costume designer for the theater program and currently design or for some of Barnard’s shows. Besides design, some of my other passions include musical theater and horseback riding. Riding is a sport I've participated in since I was eleven, and I’m currently the Columbia University Riding Team! Other ~cool~ topics I find interesting are psychology, political science, studies, and French literature. Johanna Mintz '24 Image "I’m a New Yorker, born and bred (fuggedaboutit!). Having spent my formative years in a city with such diverse representations of identity, cultural experience, and ways of life, my interests are far-flung and varied, ranging from Gulag art to Bollywood movies, to true crime podcasts, to Klezmer music, to Ancient curse tablets. Finding an academic discipline that could combine my seemingly modern and disparate passions for art, history, language, philosophy, and literature appeared to be a daunting task. However, after taking Latin and Ancient Greek in high school and reading ancient texts ranging in topic from atomic theory to gynecology, I found that Classics was the perfect encapsulation of all my interests and a means of accessing a broad range of cultural material that is surprisingly applicable to our modern world. However, as I began to actively pursue Classics, my experiences in courses and summer programs were punctuated by misogyny and the false classification of Classics as a “white, western history.” These encounters recentered my focus and sparked a sense of urgency; my particular interest is now in gender and sexuality in the ancient world in tandem with modern receptions of antiquity and its appropriation by the Nazis, the alt-right, and men’s rights movements. I hope, at Barnard and with the support of the Scholars program, to become an active contributor to the razing and restructuring of Classics as a discipline and the creation of a more inclusive and accurate depiction of the ancient world. Outside of class, I love to paint, play guitar, watch The Sopranos, re-read Madeline Miller’s Circe, and make matzo ball soup with my sister." Angelina Nicolosi '25 Image I was born and raised in Fayetteville, North Carolina as the oldest daughter of a single mother. While I attended a relatively wealthy high school in a small, country town, I navigated through my education as one of few low-income students in many of my classes. From as early as kindergarten, socioeconomic status and income inequality have been two of the most prevalent factors impacting my worldview. For most of my life I thought I would make something of myself through the medical field, but after several formative political experiences in my sophomore year of high school, I found my passion in law and government. I realized my own success would be meaningless if I wasn’t able to help as many people as possible along the way, and fighting against injustices towards the people most harmed by our political system is how I intend to do it. At Barnard, I hope to double major in political science and social and economic history. When I’m not reading up on those subjects, I enjoy watching Glee, perfecting my iced coffee order, and writing tweets that I hope people will laugh at. Yasmin Attar Olyaee '23 I was born in Iran and immigrated to Washington State as a fifth grader. I was amazed by how different the political environment in the United States was from what I had experienced in Iran. Here I’ve seen the power the people have to create change in their government and society. Acting as a page in the Washington State Senate and being a member of the ACLU club in my high school fostered a passion in me for politics. I have chosen to express my beliefs in politics through my art, for example by creating a number of paintings that showcase the myriad of communities that are in the United States–where minorities have a disproportionately small representation in the media in comparison to what is true in society. I have also chosen to express my beliefs outside of school, I’ve had opportunities to work with my local teen center as a part of their youth board to strengthen the community through events such as diversity movie nights, fundraisers for local animal shelters, and art shows for students. These interactions have inspired me to use diverse approaches to have an impact, and I’m more than excited to continue this journey. Alice Rodi '25 I’ve been fascinated by words and writing ever since I can remember: growing up in a tiny, idyllic town in New Hampshire called Lyme, I spent much of my free time reading, crafting poetry, or inventing my own languages. Once I got to high school, I joined my school’s newspaper and fell head over heels, eventually taking on editorship my junior and senior years. I became infatuated with journalistic writing, and, although it scared me, I was thrilled to share my work with the public—doing so allowed me to build connections and foster relationships I never thought possible. Within the Scholars of Distinction program, I hope to examine language through not only a journalistic and storytelling lens, but a scientific one, as well. In short, I aim to study how language affects communities and the people within them. In addition, I want to delve further into my curiosities regarding language acquisition, cognition, and phonetics through psycholinguistics and linguistic anthropology, as well as (potentially) cognitive neuroscience. Hannah Seibold '22 I was born in Frankfurt, Germany and lived there until I was nine when my parents decided to relocate to Singapore. After finishing middle school there, we moved to New York, where I attended Marymount School. These moves have exposed me to many political systems and ideologies, which sparked my interest in business and diplomacy. I have interned with a New York Senator’s Office, a Global Impact Investment Fund and a Financial Trading Platform. As of now, I am an economics and political science double major, with a minor in leadership studies at the Athena Center. When not in class, you are likely to find me working with Professor Remez as a research assistant in his Speech Perception Lab. There, I have worked on several different studies relating to speech synthesis and the perceptual organization of auditory stimuli. Apart from these academic pursuits, I am a big fan of podcasts, Central Park runs and Art History. I was lucky enough to explore the latter more seriously during my time in New York, thanks to my school's proximity to some of the world’s greatest museums, which I still visit whenever possible — I highly recommend the Wallace Wing as well as the Storage Rooms Met! Eliana Shapere '23 I was born and raised in Lexington, Kentucky, the horse capital of the world. I grew up hiking, playing music, and taking road trips with my family. I love writing poetry and short stories, learning languages, and finding connections between my interests in history, literature, philosophy, and religion. While at Barnard, I discovered a passion for looking at the world through an anthropological lens. I attended a Spanish immersion school for nearly 7 years, and continue to practice in casual conversation and by reading poetry. I study French at Barnard, and enjoy watching French films and learning about Francophone culture. I love to draw humans, create abstract paintings, and make jewelry. I have a radio show on WBAR, Barnard’s radio station, where I play techno and adjacent genres of electronic music, on Saturdays from 6-8 pm. I also work at the Columbia Computer Music Center, and I hope to use my new skills to create multimedia installations. During my gap year, I worked as a lifeguard and interviewed members of the University of Kentucky Physics Department. I also did grassroots organizing for Amy McGrath for Congress, canvassing all sorts of areas in my home state for 3 months. Over 7 months, I backpacked solo through Cuba, 11 countries in the EU, and Russia. I hope to take my research as a Scholar abroad. Anjali Smith '25 Image I was born and raised in NJ, and am lucky to be a part of a big multiethnic family. I love to paint, go on long walks, make Pinterest boards, and I have a strange obsession with flipping through companies’ brand books (Glossier’s is my favorite). As a descendant of Indo-Fijian Girmitiyas, indentured laborers under British colonialism, I am aware of the lasting impact a single policy can have on generations of people. Traditionally, the people in positions of power to create policies rarely feel the impact of their policies. This observation served as the foundation for my academic interests throughout high school as I researched and drafted legislation with my school’s model congress team, and analyzed data about systemic racism and racial attitudes in politics as a research assistant for Princeton University Professor LaFleur Stephens-Dougan. I am beyond grateful to attend Barnard College and for the opportunity to pursue my research interests as a Scholar of Distinction. I hope to bring more Indo-Fijian oral histories into academic research and knowledge on indentured labor in Fiji because my ancestors, especially the women, deserve better than colonial documents and narratives that exclude their lived experiences. Emily Stone '23 I was born in Los Angeles, grew up in Santa Barbara, California, spend summers in England with my family, and who knows where I will end up after this chapter of my life in New York City. Academically, I have always had an interest in the societies - both past and present - that surround us, and more recently, that curiosity has expanded to include the ways in which we shape the world and the world shapes us. I plan on majoring in both environmental sustainability and human rights, but am also drawn to a wide variety of other subjects such as anthropology, psychology, and Spanish. I greatly value the opportunity to pursue my varying interests through the Scholars of Distinction program, because I believe it is imperative to promote diversity in thought and action. Outside of academics, I love to dance. I have been doing ballet since I was three, and continue to take classes and participate in performances here at school. Pursuing dance allows me to balance my studies with creativity, and I love having so many opportunities to see shows here as well. In my very limited free time (because I love to pack my schedule full of way too many things at once), you can find me exploring restaurants downtown, finding new things to try on campus, or just watching cheesy movies with my friends. Lauren Zhou '24 Image I am the daughter of two Chinese immigrants who have continuously encouraged me to discover my own path. Thus, growing up, I always found myself drifting towards the humanities, despite the fact that my parents are both engineers. Although I was born in the USA, I moved to the Philippines when I was just seven years old. I definitely experienced a cultural shock, as I was suddenly face-to-face with sociopolitical issues I had never previously considered. One of my first memories is young children on Manila’s busy streets soliciting money in exchange for a few stringed strands of local perfumed flowers instead of learning in a safe classroom environment. These new encounters established my strong passion for social justice, specifically educational inequity and female empowerment. In high school, I founded two non-profit organizations: Kahon Ng Karunungan, which aims to distribute self-learning kits to disadvantaged Filipino schools, and Herstory Philippines, which empowers under-resourced Filipina students through literacy and sexual health education. Working for these organizations has cultivated my interests in public policy and human rights law, which is why I am considering a major in political science and a minor in public policy. On campus, I hope to get involved with the Columbia Daily Spectator, the Columbia Undergraduate Law Review, and BC/CU Circle of Women Important Links Scholars' Blog Alumnae and past projects Past Participants Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262