Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Health > Primary Care Health Service Incoming Student Info - Fall 2022 Fall 2022 Incoming Student Health Forms will be released mid-May Welcome to Barnard! Before the start of the semester, you'll need to complete several health related forms, due by June 30, 2022: Click here to download the Incoming Student Immunization Form **Please note that you will not be able to access the electronic Incoming Student Health Forms until your gBear/myBarnard accounts are active** All electronic forms are located on the Primary Care Health Service Open Communicator website: bchealth.barnard.edu New York State law requires that all students provide documentation of immunity against measles, mumps and rubella and that all students complete the electronic “Meningococcal Meningitis Vaccination Response Form (18 or Over)” or paper-based “Under 18: Meningococcal Meningitis Vaccination Response Form” (located on the Open Communicator website). These documents are REQUIRED to be permitted on campus and to attend Barnard. To get a head start on your forms, please read the Step by Step Guide & Checklist and the Frequently Asked Questions below: Incoming Student Info: Click here for the Step by Step Guide & Checklist Frequently Asked Questions: Insurance What do I need to know about insurance? All incoming students are automatically enrolled in the Aetna Student Health Insurance plan. If you would like to waive out of the student insurance, you must complete the waiver form located here (note: this link becomes active starting 6/17/2022). For insurance questions only, please contact Elliot Wasserman at ewasserman@barnard.edu or 212-854-8305. Many answers to frequently asked questions about the Aetna Student Health Insurance plan and waiver can be found here. All information regarding health insurance is located on our insurance site: http://barnard.edu/primarycare/insurance Incoming Student Health Forms Where can I find the Incoming Student Health Forms? All electronic forms are located on the Open Communicator website. You must activate your myBarnard/gBear IDs before you can access the Open Communicator website. More information on account activation can be found on the Student Computing website. The paper forms are linked here: Incoming Student Immunization Form When are the Incoming Student Health Forms due? All electronic and paper forms are due on June 30, 2022. Paper-based forms must be faxed or mailed (we do not accept forms via email) to the Primary Care Health Service. The address and fax number are listed on the forms. All forms must be sent together, at the same time, via fax OR by mail (it is not necessary to send them both ways). If the forms are mailed, they must be received by the PCHS by the deadline of June 30, 2022. Late submission of the Incoming Student Health Forms may result in housing and registration delays. No student will be allowed to register, receive a housing assignment, be allowed to check in to the Residence Halls or be on campus until we receive and approve your forms. Is there a guide on how to complete the forms? Yes! Please click here for the: Step by Step Guide and Checklist. It is very important that you complete the forms in the order listed in the Step by Step Guide! Can I call or email the Primary Care Health Service to check on the status of my forms? We ask that you DO NOT contact us regarding the status of your forms. We wish that we could answer calls/emails regarding form status, but with so many incoming students, confirmation requests slow down our review process. However, that doesn’t mean that we want to leave you in the dark! You can check if the PCHS has received your paper forms, and reviewed and processed all of your forms by checking the Medical Clearance section of the Open Communicator website. Everything should be green and say compliant. Below are some general notes about our review process: Once you submit your electronic and paper Incoming Student Health Forms, your job is done. We do not contact incoming students if their forms are complete, so no news is good news! If we do find any problems or unmet requirements we will contact the student via their personal AND Barnard email addresses. It is very important that you check your email! It can take up to 7 business days to process and review the Incoming Student Health Forms, especially as we near the due date, so please keep checking your personal and Barnard email and the Open Communicator website! Can I scan and email the forms instead of faxing or mailing them? No, we CANNOT accept any medical information via email due to privacy concerns. All paper forms must be mailed or faxed to the Barnard Primary Care Health Service by June 30, 2022. Does Barnard require a physical exam? No, Barnard does not require that incoming students receive a physical exam. However, the paper-based “Incoming Student Immunization Form” must be completed and signed by a physician (MD/DO), physicians assistant (PA) or nurse practitioner (NP/APRN/DNP). We suggest making an appointment with your health care provider for as soon as possible to ensure that you have ample time to complete the forms and if necessary, receive any vaccinations or a tuberculosis screening. Can a registered nurse (RN), licensed practical nurse (LPN), or licensed vocational nurse (LVN) complete my “Incoming Student Immunization Form”? No, New York State Health Law requires that your forms be completed and signed by a physician (MD/DO), physicians assistant (PA) or nurse practitioner (NP/APRN/DNP). Can I submit a copy of my immunization record or health forms from another program/school instead of the Incoming Student Health Forms? No, you must submit all of the official electronic and paper-based Barnard College Incoming Student Health Forms. We CANNOT accept any pre-existing forms or previously documented immunization histories. For Transfer students this includes health forms from your previous university, you must submit the official Barnard forms! If you would like to include a copy of your immunization record or any other medical history in addition to the official Barnard forms, you may attach it to the completed and signed paper-based “Incoming Student Immunization Form”. Can I just attach a copy of my immunization record to the “Incoming Student Immunization Form”? No, your health care provider must complete and sign the Barnard College paper-based “Incoming Student Immunization Form”. If you would like to include a copy of your immunization record or any additional records in addition to the official Barnard forms, you may attach it to the completed and signed paper-based “Incoming Student Immunization Form”. My family member/relative is a health care provider. Can they sign the paper-based “Incoming Student Form”? No, we cannot accept forms that are signed by a relative, even if they are a physician, physicians assistant or nurse practitioner. I’m under 18 years old. Are there any special forms that need to be completed? Yes! If you are 17 years old or younger at the time of filling out the Incoming Student Health Forms, you must download and print the “Under 18 Required Forms Packet” from the downloadable forms folder in the forms section of the Open Communicator website. This document contains the “Under 18: Meningococcal Meningitis Vaccination Response Form” and “Minors Consent Form”, which your parent/guardian will need to complete and sign. The two forms must be mailed or faxed along with your “Incoming Student Immunization Form” by June 30, 2022. If I submit the electronic “Incoming Student Immunization Form” do I still need to submit the paper-based “Incoming Student Immunization Form” and vice versa? All incoming students must submit BOTH the paper-based “Incoming Student Immunization Form” (completed and signed by a physician, physicians assistant or nurse practitioner) and the electronic “Incoming Student Immunization Form” (completed by the student using the paper-based “Incoming Student Immunization Form”). Please follow the instruction listed in the: Step by Step Guide. I have a religious or medical immunization exemption. What should I do? If you have a religious or medical immunization exemption, please email the Executive Director of Student Health and Wellness Programs, Mary Joan Murphy at mmurphy@barnard.edu as soon as possible for further information and instructions. If you are granted an exemption, you must still complete the “Tuberculosis Screening Form”, electronic “Notice of Privacy Practices Form”, and electronic “Meningococcal Meningitis Vaccination Response Form (18 or Over)” if you are 18 years old or older, or the paper-based “Under 18: Meningococcal Meningitis Vaccination Response Form” and “Minors Consent Form” if you are 17 years old or younger. Medical Is the Covid-19 Vaccine Required? Yes! The Covid-19 vaccine will be required for all enrolled students, including new and visiting students. The submission of your Covid-19 vaccine is part of your Incoming Student Immunization Forms. Which immunizations does Barnard require? The immunizations that Barnard and New York State law require are measles, mumps and rubella. All incoming students must provide documentation of immunity to measles, mumps and rubella. There are three ways to meet the MMR requirement: Two doses of MMR vaccine (see below for New York State requirements). Two doses of individual measles vaccine, one dose of individual mumps and one dose of individual rubella vaccine (see below for New York State requirements). Proof of positive measles, mumps and rubella blood titers. Positive titers mean that you have immunity to measles, mumps & rubella. Your MMR or individual measles, mumps and rubella dates must meet the requirements below in order to be compliant with New York State public health law. If your vaccine dates do not meet the requirements, you must submit proof of positive measles, mumps and rubella titers or receive additional doses of the vaccine. Combined MMR Vaccine: Dose 1: must be given no earlier than 4 days before your 1st birthday Dose 2: must be given at least 28 days after the first dose Individual Measles, Mumps and Rubella Vaccines: Measles Dose 1: must be given no earlier than 4 days before your 1st birthday Measles Dose 2: must be given at least 28 days after the first dose Mumps Dose 1: must be given no earlier than 4 days before your 1st birthday Rubella Dose 2: must be given no earlier than 4 days before your 1st birthday Does Barnard require the meningococcal meningitis vaccine? No, Barnard does not require the meningococcal meningitis vaccine but it is strongly recommended for all students. Regardless of if you receive the vaccine, all incoming students MUST submit the electronic “Meningococcal Meningitis Vaccination Response Form (18 or OVER)” if you are 18 years old or older or the paper-based “Under 18: Meningococcal Meningitis Vaccination Response Form” if you are 17 years old or younger. Are the vaccines listed in the “Recommended Vaccinations” section of the paper-based “Incoming Students Immunization Form” required? No, these vaccines are recommended, but not required. If you have received any of these vaccinations please have your health care provider document the dates on the “Incoming Student Immunization Form”. Does Barnard require a tuberculosis screening? All incoming students must submit the “Tuberculosis Screening Form”. If you have ever had a documented positive tuberculin skin/blood test you must submit official documentation of: The initial positive tuberculin test. Report of a negative chest x-ray and if applicable, INH treatment plan. If you do not have official documentation of the initial skin/blood test AND a negative chest x-ray, you will need to get another skin or blood test and if necessary, chest x-ray. If the answer is “YES” to ANY of the questions on the “Tuberculosis Screening Form” and you DO NOT have a history of a documented positive tuberculin skin/blood test you must submit: A PPD skin test from within the last 6 months or a Quantiferon Gold/T-Spot blood test from within the last 6 months. If the blood or skin text is positive, you must submit proof of a negative chest x-ray. Even if you have had BCG, if the answer is “YES” to ANY of the questions and you DO NOT have documented history of a positive tuberculin skin/blood test AND a negative chest x-ray you must submit a PPD skin test from within the last 6 months or a Quantiferon Gold/T-Spot blood test from within the last 6 months, and if necessary a chest x-ray. Open Communicator Open Communicator Link Open Communicator Website: bchealth.barnard.edu Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262