Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Citizens Bank MasterCard Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Key Contacts Citizens Bank Customer Service: 888-356-8378 Barnard College Purchasing Department: 212-854-5204 The Citizens Bank Purchasing Card should be generally used for purchases of $500 or less. The Purchasing Card Procedures section is intended to provide Cardholders with information about the Barnard College Citizens Bank Purchasing Card (the “P-Card”) program and to familiarize them with their responsibilities as Cardholders. This purchasing card is accepted worldwide at any location that accepts either the traditional MasterCard or the MasterCard Purchasing Card. The Purchasing Card is very similar to a bank charge card or credit card. However the charges are paid directly by Barnard College. Uses of the Purchasing Card The P-Card is a charge card and must be used in such a manner that will ensure the security and safekeeping of the P-Card and its account number at all times. The Cardholder is responsible for keeping the P-Card secure on Barnard premises unless required to make off-site purchases. The P-Card is the required method for the purchase of small dollar value ($500 or less) for miscellaneous expenses, materials and services. Exceptions will be made where vendors do not accept MasterCard. Types of commodities and services that can be charged are: business meals subscriptions registrations books brochures, catalogs and price lists promotional supplies dues & memberships travel (when approved) Internal procedures should be set up in each department so that proper authorization is given to make purchases. Ensure that no New York State sales tax is charged. The College is exempt from New York State Sales and Use Tax. The College’s tax exemption number is printed on the back of the Citizens Bank Purchasing Card. You may also retrieve a copy of the tax exempt form from the Barnard Portal. Restrictions of the Purchasing Card The Purchasing Card is for official business use only. It may not be used for personal purchases. In addition, the P-Card CANNOT be used to purchase the following items: Cash advances or cash awards including honorariums Construction or remodeling Furniture/Equipment (such as tablets, laptops, desks or chairs) Employee benefits Personal purchases Gifts Service Contracts Special Services: Independent Contractors, performers, consultants, speakers Student tuition, scholarships or stipends Additionally, personal credit cards/payment methods can not be used for the purchase of the above restricted goods/services and submitted for reimbursement. Cardholders cannot split transactions into smaller amounts to avoid dollar limits placed on the P-Card. If you need to purchase an item above the per transaction limit, please contact the Purchasing Department for special consideration to temporarily increase the “per transaction” or monthly limits. Please note that additional restrictions may be placed on expenses that are allocated to grant accounts. P-Card privileges may be revoked, temporarily or permanently, by Barnard College if a Cardholder fails to comply with the Purchasing Card Procedures. The Purchasing Card Process Purchasing Cards can be issued to employees that have been assigned a general ledger account number. Applications can be obtained by contacting the Purchasing Department via email at purchase@barnard.edu. Once an application is approved, the request will be processed and the new cardholder will be contacted to arrange card pick up and review session. Cardholders are responsible for promptly reconciling charges posted to their card via the Centresuite website. Occasionally, billing errors may occur. For example, you may be charged New York sales tax, or you may be charged for goods and services that you did not receive. Remember that, by law, suppliers may not bill you for purchases until your order is ready for shipment. If there is a suspected error with a legitimate charge, the Cardholder should contact the supplier. If the error is confirmed, the supplier should be instructed to issue a credit against the applicable P-Card account. This should be noted in the department’s Transaction log. (See Monthly Reconciliation) The credit should appear on the next monthly Citizens Bank MasterCard statement. If the Cardholder contacts a supplier and they are unable to reconcile a difference in a charged amount, the Purchasing Department should be contacted for assistance. If billing or returned item disputes cannot be resolved with the supplier within 30 days, the Cardholder must contact Citizens Bank MasterCard Customer Service at 1-888-333-0114 and follow the instructions they provide. Citizens Bank MasterCard will issue a temporary credit while the dispute is investigated. Monthly Reconciliation On a monthly basis, the Cardholder will receive an individual P-Card statement. Departments will verify charges, assign account numbers, appropriate object codes and business purpose for each charge on the Citizens Bank CentreSuite website. Departments should sign and retain the monthly statement, a copy of the transaction log, and original receipts. Departments are responsible for returns and exchanges and following through on appropriate credits. The Purchasing Department should be notified of returns and pending credits. Keep track of your purchases throughout the month by reviewing and updating your current month transactions on the CentreSuite website. Detailed instructions on how to reconcile your monthly transactions using the CentreSuite website for SINGLE cardholder/users and for MULTIPLE cardholder/users. Departments should retain the following records: Copies of original Monthly Statement. Copies of completed Transaction Log. All original receipts and other supporting documentation. If any charge is paid for by the Provost Office, an additional approval and coding is required by a representative of the Provost’s Office. If the appropriate Provost approval is not obtained before the required deadline, the individual department will be charged. All Cardholder’s charges must be reconciled no later than 5pm on the 5th business days after the end date of the billing cycle. Records should be kept for 7 years at the Cardholder's location. Purchasing will perform the following procedures on a monthly basis: Receive and process monthly purchasing card billing statement for payment and input to general ledger. Perform post-audits of purchasing card transaction activity to ensure proper adherence to the policies of the College. The purchasing card billing system is a single bill/central pay arrangement. Although each individual Cardholder receives a monthly account statement, payment is centrally executed by Accounts Payable. The grand total of all charges with supporting detail by Cardholder account is paid to Citizens Bank within 14 days following the close of the billing cycle. Accounts Payable will retain statements for seven years. Roles and Responsibilities of the Cardholder Cardholders warrant and agree that the Purchasing Card shall be used only for related business purposes within the Cardholder's authorized level and for approved budgeted expenditures. The Cardholder is responsible for all purchases made with the card. The Cardholder is responsible for ensuring proper credit appears on the Cardholder’s statement for the return of merchandise, and initiating and handling any and all disputes with suppliers. The Cardholder will be responsible for maintaining receipts and reconciling those receipts to the monthly statement, as well as maintaining a transaction log. Records should be kept for 7 years at the Cardholder's location. The Cardholder is responsible for notifying the supplier that Barnard College is tax exempt. Lost or Stolen Cards The Cardholder is to report the loss/theft of their card (or account number) immediately to Citizens Bank Customer Service 1-888-356-8378. After Citizens Bank has been contacted, the Cardholder must then advise the Purchasing Department. In addition, the Cardholder must provide and sign a brief narrative on circumstances to the Purchasing Department. Upon notification to Citizens Bank of a lost or stolen card, further use of the card will be blocked. Prompt action in these circumstances can reduce the College’s liability for fraudulent charges. Citizens Bank will replace the card within 7 business days. How to Cancel a Card In the event that the Cardholder’s employment is terminated, the department must initiate cancellation of the Cardholder account. Purchasing Card accounts cannot be reassigned from one employee to another. The Purchasing Department should be contacted immediately and the P-Card should be cut in half and returned to the Purchasing Department. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262