Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Back RESIDENT ASSISTANTS (up level ▲) Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Residential Life & Housing > Employment Resident Assistants EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants Information Sessions (Mandatory) Students must attend one of the Information Sessions below in order to be eligible to apply for the RA position. Date Time Location Sunday, December 12 6-7pm (EST) Weber Living Room (118 Reid) Monday, December 13 7-8pm (EST) Weber Living Room (118 Reid) Tuesday, December 14 12:30-1:30pm (EST) Weber Living Room (118 Reid) Wednesday, December 15 8-9pm (EST) Weber Living Room (118 Reid) Thursday, December 16 5-6pm (EST) Weber Living Room (118 Reid) Tuesday, January 18 8-9pm (EST) Zoom Link * the January 18 info session is only for students who were studying abroad for the Fall Application Timeline Info Sessions Applicants must attend one of the sessions listed above in order for your application to be accepted Application Goes Live 9am on Wedneday, November 17, 2021 Application Deadline 5pm on Friday, January 14, 2022 Group Process Friday, January 28, 2022 Either 2:30-4:30pm or 6-8pm Individual Interviews Monday, February 7 - Friday, February 18, 2022 RA Hiring Decisions Announced The week of February 28, 2022 RA Acceptance Forms Due Wednesday, March 9, 2021 New RA Department Welcome and Staff Meet & Greet TBD Info for Students Studying Abroad Students studying abroad in Spring 2022 must submit their application by Friday, December 10, 2022 and email RASelection@barnard.edu to schedule an interview prior to departing for Winter Break. Students returning from Fall 2021 study abroad must attend the January Information Session (see above) Students abroad for the entire academic year should email RASelection@barnard.edu to determine best interview processes. How to Apply To apply, fill out the Google Form linked below. 2022-23 RA Application Deadline for the application is 5pm on Friday, January 14, 2022. Position Description RA Position Description (PDF) A Week In the Life of a Barnard RA (PDF) Frequently Asked Questions What are the benefits of the RA position? RAs have the ability to impact the lives of many students RAs have the opportunity to gain invaluable student leadership experience The compensation for the RA position includes: a single occupancy room for the 2022-23 academic year, all RAs will receive the Flex 150 or the comparable meal plan. Communication about the ability to upgrade will be communicated closer to the Fall 2022 billing period. RAs will not be allowed to downgrade. I'm currently a first-year student — can I apply? Absolutely! Many First-Years apply and are selected each year to be RAs for the following academic year. How many students will be hired? Is there an alternate list? The total number of applicants hired depends on the number of current RAs returning for the next academic year (there are 58 RA positions campus wide). We typically hire approximately 20-30 new RAs each year. We will also select some candidates to be on an "alternate" list. These candidates may be tapped if a position opens up over the summer or mid-year. It is not uncommon for students to be chosen from the alternate pool each year after the initial hiring decisions are made. Where can I be an RA? Generally speaking, you could be an RA in any of the 13 residence halls. When hiring and placing RAs, much consideration is given to the candidate's strengths and the needs of the building/population/staff/etc. On the application, applicants may express a preference for working with FY students or upperclass students; however, applicants are not able to request specific residence halls or floors. If an applicant is offered an RA job, it will be for a specific residence hall and floor. If the applicant does not want to accept the offered building/floor, the position would be offered to another candidate. What is the difference between being an RA for FYF (First Year Focus) vs. in an Upperclass residence hall? We have several populations of students on campus. While they all have things in common, each population also has a unique set of needs. As an RA, it is important to recognize the needs of your floor and be able to support your residents accordingly. Below is a brief description of FYF vs. Upperclass experiences in the residence halls and how it impacts and shapes the respective RA roles. To get an even better understanding of these populations and the RA experience, we encourage you to speak with students/RAs who are members of each population. FYF RAs First-year students have a lot of energy and seek close relationships with their RA. Especially early in the year, the RA serves as one of the first resources, role models, and friends for a FY at Barnard. FY students typically enjoy coming to RA programs and often come to their RA with problems/questions, so it is important that an FYF RA keeps an open door and outlook to make their residents feel welcomed and supported. The corridor style housing and energy of FY students are conducive to creating a strong sense of community on the floor. All FY students live in the Quad (Brooks, Hewitt, Reid, or Sulzberger) and FYF RAs live among their residents, eat with them in the dining hall, and foster the community around them by working with the larger RA FYF staff. Upperclass RAs There are several subset populations within the Upperclass areas — Senior Experience (S|X), Transfers, etc. — but in general, upperclass students are more independent from their RAs as they have already gone through their first year of College and acclimated to Barnard (with the exception of Transfers). Upperclass students are often already campus leaders, organization heads/members, and actively settled into Barnard life. Upperclass residents may have less interaction with their RA on a daily basis than FYs, which is why it is important for upperclass RAs to be intentional and reach out to their residents. It can be more of a challenge to get upperclass students to come to programs, so RAs must assess their residents' needs and tap into their passions and interests. RAs may often be going through the same types of transitions and challenges as their residents, so it can be more of a peer relationship than working with FY students. Can I be involved with an outside commitment (part-time job, varsity athlete, leadership position, Greek Life, etc.) in addition to being an RA? Our expectation for RAs is that their academics come first; the RA job comes second, and any extracurricular activities and outside work comes third. We recognize that as a student leader you may wear many hats, including involvement in student organizations, internships, research, working a part-time job, etc. While we encourage our staff to be involved at Barnard and beyond, we expect our staff to be realistic with how many outside commitments they take on. Any outside commitments over 10 hours per week must be approved by our professional staff. Can I be an RA for one semester and study abroad for the other? For the first year as an RA you must commit to being in the position for the entire academic year (both Fall and Spring semesters). If you return to the position for a second year, you may be able to arrange a study abroad opportunity as approved by the Senior Associate Director; however, this may not be possible in all cases. How often can I leave campus for the weekend? While there is no hard and fast rule, it is our expectation that RAs are here for their residents, building community, and being a presence on campus. With that being said, it's healthy and expected for you to be able to take some time away from campus (including a few full weekends). You will find that your commitments to the RA position (Duty, weekend programming, community building, etc.) will keep you on campus for the majority of the weekends of each semester. It would be unrealistic for an RA to be gone every or every other weekend. I was found responsible for a policy violation in the past. Can I still apply? We believe that your experiences make you who you are. We have all made a bad decision from time to time. As long as you're not currently on residence hall probation, you are able to apply! Our hope is that students learn from their experience if found responsible for policy violations and make positive changes in their behavior. Will being an RA impact my Financial Aid package? Because there are a lot of factors which can impact financial aid eligibility, we encourage all applicants to check with the Financial Aid office before accepting a position, in order to see if their aid package could be negatively affected. To schedule an appointment, please visit their website at barnard.edu/finaid to view their drop-in hours or call 212-854-2154 to schedule an appointment. Please note that there is a short amount of time between being offered the RA position and the date you need to accept/decline. How can I prepare for the interviews? Speak with current RAs to learn about their experiences. Set up a time to meet your Hall Director and/or Associate Director. They can share their experiences with you and encourage you to find ways to get involved in your residence hall and the Barnard community. Have conversations with family, friends, and past supervisors about your strengths & weaknesses. This will help you have a better understanding of your abilities. Beyond Barnard provides opportunities for resume building and interviewing skills. Seek them out! For more information, please email RASelection@barnard.edu. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262