Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Office of the Bursar Understanding Your Spring 2022 Bill Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Spring Semester Payment Instructions: E-bills will be sent to students' and authorized users' email addresses the week of November 1st, 2021, with a due date of December 3rd, 2021. No paper bills are mailed. Students may view their student accounts online or enroll in a payment plan via the Bursar Student Account Center (BSAC). Impact of Late Payments: The College will assess a late fee charge of $75 on December 4th, 2021, and it increases by $10 every Monday thereafter. There is no grace period. In addition, a late payment may result in the student losing her housing assignment for the Spring semester. When charges remain unresolved, the College will prevent Enrollment Confirmation. If the student does not resolve the balance on the student account nor register by January 28, 2022, she will be automatically de-enrolled from the College. Avoid Late Fees and Potential Loss of Housing Assignment/Guarantee Checklist If the student is covered under another insurance plan, she may request an annual waiver from the student health insurance charged by Barnard. Transfer and Readmitted students for the Spring 20212 semester may visit University Health Plans to start the opt-out process from the College's student health insurance between November 9, 2021, and January 11, 2022. If you would like to deduct the fee from the bill, the College *strongly* recommends that you start the opt-out process before the deadline for the Spring payment of December 3rd, 2021. Late payment fees begin at $75 on December 4th and increase by $10 every Monday thereafter. There is no grace period. Return the Bursar Worksheet with payment to BURSAR by December 3rd, 2021, at the latest. Nelnet payment plan: You must advise Nelnet of the exact amount to pay Barnard each term. Nelnet does not automatically adjust your payment plan to reflect the actual balance due to Bursar. Remember to deduct a lender's origination fees from any pending federal or private loans you subtract from your invoice. Your "expected family/student contribution" for financial aid purposes is not your outstanding student account balance. Changes/updates to your invoice are available at the Bursar Student Account Center (disable pop-up blockers to access). Barnard is not responsible for lost, late, or misdirected mail; pay online through Nelnet, or allow at least 10 days for postal mail delivery. Financial Aid The student's TOTAL GRANT will already be deducted as "Total Grant remaining to be credited." If you have a "Financial Aid Award Letter" showing a TOTAL GRANT that is not deducted, deduct it on the Bursar Worksheet after reading the Bursar sections below on TAP, Outside Awards, and Self Help. Self Help "Federal Work-Study" or "Barnard College Job" will never be deducted from your bill. Wages are paid directly to the student by paycheck for work performed during the term. They do not reduce your payment. The Federal Direct Stafford Loan is deducted from the bill once the student has accepted the loan through the Financial Aid portal. First-time borrowers must complete their application before the credit can be applied to the invoice. If you have questions about the status of your loan application, please contact the Financial Aid Office at finaid@barnard.edu. Housing/Meal Plans For the 2021-2022 academic year, all students residing in campus housing must enroll in a Barnard meal plan. Non-residential students are not required to enroll in a meal plan. Resident students will be automatically enrolled in the Standard Meal Plan based on their residence. If you wish to change your meal plan, you may change your meal plan online in the StarRezPortal. If a meal charge is incorrect or missing from the bill, please contact our office. The deadline to change your meal plan is January 7, 2022, no further change of meal plan is permitted after the deadline. Read more about Meal Plans. BC/CU Tuition Exemption Submit your Tuition Exemption Form to Barnard Bursar by December 3rd for the Spring semester to avoid late payment fees, and complications with registration, housing, and meal plan. Only tuition is covered (no fees, room, or board). To avoid progressive late payment fees, make payment of the remaining balance shown on your Barnard invoice by December 3rd for the Spring semester. Columbia University (CU) tuition exemption authorization may be available to CU employees at hr.columbia.edu. (Click Benefits --> CU Benefits Enrollment System, and log in.) Title IV Authorization For Federal financial aid and loans to be credited toward all charges on the student account, return the Title IV Authorizations to Bursar. One is for student authorization, which is available through the Bursar Form Portal. The other is for the parent PLUS loan borrowers. The Title IV Authorization for Parents can be found on the Bursar website. Without these signed forms, we will not be able to apply any federal aid awarded (including Stafford and PLUS loans) toward all charges assessed to your bursar account. Barnard Loans These loans will not appear as a credit on the bill until the student has signed the appropriate Loan promissory note with Financial Aid. This promissory note is not the same as the Notice of Financial Aid or the promissory notes you may sign for Federal Stafford, Federal PLUS, or Tuition Management Systems (TMS/Nelnet). Barnard Institutional Loan promissory notes are available from the Financial Aid Office if the loan has been awarded. Federal Direct Stafford, PLUS, and Other Loans If you have completed your loan applications for the year and Financial Aid has processed them, we have already extended estimated credit for any pending loans at the bottom of your invoice. This amount is based on the loans for which you applied this academic year. It reflects the estimated net amount of your loan minus your lender’s fees. To apply for a Federal Direct Stafford loan, you must complete a "Master Promissory Note" (MPN). Students must enroll for at least 6 credits to qualify for any Federal Direct loan. If you applied for a Federal Direct Loan and estimated loan(s) are not already deducted at the bottom of your bill, you may contact the Financial Aid Office at finaid@barnard.edu. The College is required to disburse the funds each semester; therefore, only half of your annual loan (minus the origination fee) will be deducted from your charges each fall/spring semester. To calculate the amount the College will receive from your loan, for Federal Direct Stafford Student Loans, multiply the principal loan amount by .98941. For Federal Direct PLUS (Parent Loans), multiply the loan amount by .95764. TAP (New York State residents only) If the student is a New York State resident taking at least 12 credits this semester and has applied for the NYS Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) or NYS Scholarship for Excellence, the award is already included in the total grant. If she does not have a total grant, send Bursar documentation of your NYS award each semester along with the Bursar Worksheet showing the deduction. Outside Awards If you have already advised Financial Aid of any outside awards you expect to receive, these are already included in the total grant amount, if any, on your invoice. However, if you have not advised Financial Aid of an outside award, do not deduct it without first speaking with Financial Aid at (212) 854-2154; follow their instructions. Scan your documentation for any outside award to both Financial Aid (finaid@barnard.edu) and Bursar (bursar@barnard.edu). Third Party Payment If a third party (e.g., parent's employer, embassy, scholarship, 529-plans) pays any part of the student's bill and requires an individual invoice, you may grant them access to the Bursar Student Account Center (SAC). If the third party needs to be invoiced directly, submit the official authorization for billing the third party to the Bursar before the payment deadline. Payment Plan For the 2021-2022 academic year, Barnard will offer two five-month payment plans for the fall and spring semesters. *You must enroll in the plan each term.* The domestic plan is administered by Nelnet. The international plan is administered by Flywire. There is a $50 fee each semester for enrolling in the plans. Note Nelnet/Flywire will not adjust the amount of your budget without specific instructions from you. If you incur additional charges with Barnard (e.g., increased tuition, meal plan, residence hall charges, lab/course fees, etc.), your payment plan will not automatically be increased to cover the additional cost. You may contact Nelnet (1-888-251-3597) to increase your domestic budget accordingly. To adjust your international plan, please contact myonplanu at https://flywirecrs.zendesk.com/hc/en-us. If your student account still shows a balance outstanding after the deduction for Nelnet/Flywire, then your plan does not cover all charges. Note that the first payment for the Spring semester payment plan is due December 3rd. By December 1, send Bursar your payment for any remaining "Balance Due" indicated on your Barnard e-bill (accessed by registered users at https://online.campuscommerce.com/signin/4NT1P) to avoid Barnard's late payment fee. If you have enrolled in a payment plan for the semester, but the plan is not deducted on Barnard's e-bill, contact Nelnet at (888) 251-3597. Payments not intended for the payment plan should be sent directly to Barnard Bursar, 3009 Broadway, Room 007, New York, NY 10027-6598. JTS Dual Degree Program Students enrolled in the Barnard/Jewish Theological Seminary (JTS) dual degree program pay each institution separately. If you are expecting a refund from JTS that you wish to apply toward your Barnard invoice, please complete the Bursar Worksheet and submit it to our office with a copy of your JTS invoice showing your expected refund. If you wish to forward a credit balance from your Barnard account to JTS, please complete a Student Refund Request form. You may reach the JTS Bursar at (212) 678-8829 or bursar@jtsa.edu. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262