Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Preparedness Crime Alerts Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Under the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, Barnard College is required to alert the campus community to certain crimes that pose a continuing danger to the campus community in a manner that is timely and will aid in the prevention of similar crimes. We also share here other crimes pertinent to the campus community. Additional Safety Resources SCAM ALERT: Requests to help cash a check - please be cautious, say no to requests of this nature. Cashing a check through the ATM will withdraw funds from your account, these funds are not recovered if the check does not clear. Speak to a bank teller before depositing a check if you are unsure. CYBERSAFETY: Know the Red Flags Phishers are masters of making their content and interactions appealing. It is important to know the red flags. During times of crisis or natural/national disaster, scammers will also seek to profit from generosity - if you are looking for ways to provide financial support, know where your funds are going, and learn more about Charity Fraud. Additional tips: Verify the Source Perform Software Updates Utilize Multi-Factor Authentication Make and maintain off line back up of important information Report Suspicious Online Activity: We all make mistakes. Reach out for help if you opened an attachment, clicked on a link, or shared sensitive information that didn’t feel right. Contact BCIT Service Desk at https://barnard.service-now.com, help@barnard.edu, or 212-854-7172. Cybersafety and online scams are an ongoing concern. BCIT protects the Barnard network, each of us can also protect our passwords and report suspicious online activity. BICYCLE and SCOOTER SAFETY: Secure your bicycle or scooter to a bike rack on campus. Say no to cable locks! They can easily be cut. Use a good U-lock to secure your belonging. Our partners in Columbia Public Safety offers discount U-locks at cost. Visit this page for additional information. New York City Policy Department (NYPD) operates in precincts. Most of Barnard's campus is situated in the 26th Precinct [Cathedral Gardens building is in the 24th Precinct]. NYPD maintains crime statistics data by precinct found on the city website. 2022 May 2022 Robbery Neighborhood Alert: On Monday, May 30, 2022 at approximately 9:45 PM in front of 526 West 114th Street an unknown individual walked up to an citizen and displayed a blue handle knife and demanded her property. The citizen did not hand over any property and the unknown individual fled westbound on West 114th Street toward Broadway. A report was filed with NYPD. If the identity of the individual is known or if seen, please call 911 or contact Columbia Public Safety. More information on the CU Public Safety webpage. Criminal Mischief Neighborhood Alert: On Sunday, May 22, 2022 at approximately 1:13am multiple youth gathered on Broadway north of 116th Street. An unknown male spray painted graffiti on the building just north of the Reid Hall gate. Directly following, an unknown female spray painted just south of the Reid Gate. All individuals departed down the steps into the 116th Street Subway station. If you have information about this matter, please call Community Safety at 212-854-6666 or NYPD 26th Precinct. April 2022 Burglary Neighborhood Alert: On Sunday, May 8, 2022 at approximately 2:05a.m. an unknown male is seen on CCTV having entered 15/21 Claremont Avenue and took property from within a space in the building. A report was filed the next day with Columbia University Public Safety. Harassment Neighborhood Alert: On Saturday, April 30, 2022 at approximately 1:52a.m. an unknown male approached closely to three individuals on Broadway, between the Barnard main gate and 119th gate, asking for money. The individuals turned back toward the main gate, unharmed, to report the incident. The unknown male left northbound on Broadway, is observed on camera prior to the reported incident moving slowly along the Broadway sidewalk and may have approached others. If you have information about this matter, please call Community Safety at 212-854-6666. Fondling Clery Crime Alert: On Thursday, April 21, 2022 at approximately 3:05a.m. an unknown male approached two Columbia affiliates in front of 47 Claremont Ave. The male pushed the individuals to the ground and forcibly touched them. The individual left the area northbound and was last seen walking east on La Salle St. near Broadway. The incident was reported to NYPD. The individual may be affiliated with an altercation with a pedestrian on Broadway just prior to this. If you have information about this matter, please call 911 or Community Safety at 212-854-6666. View this information & photo here. Robbery Neighborhood Alert: The NYPD advised of a robbery that took place in front of 410 Riverside Drive, the incident occurred on Sunday, April 10th at approximately 10:45 pm. One of the individuals involved was wearing a black Jacket with black pants and grey sneakers. The other individual was wearing grey sweatpants, a grey hooded sweatshirt, and a black north face jacket. The individual with the grey sweatpants stated he had a firearm but never displayed it. Anyone with information regarding this crime, should please call the NYPD 26 precinct Detective Squad at 212-678-1351 March 2022 Burglary Neighborhood Alert: On March 25, 2022, at approximately 06:05 AM, an unknown individual is seen on CCTV entering 501 West 121st Street by using a screwdriver to force the door open. Once inside the building the individual opened 3 packages and removed their contents and then exited the building. The same individual attempted to force the door open inside of 540 West 122 St but was unsuccessful. The unknown individual was last seen walking northbound on Amsterdam Ave past West 123rd Street. Find additional information on the Columbia Public Safety website. Burglary Neighborhood Alert: On March 14th , 2022 at approximately 4:24pm, an unknown individual entered 424-430 West 119th street and removed items. The individual is seen entering the building after ringing doorbells to gain access. Once inside, the individual is seen removing a large black suitcase and packages from the building lobby without permission to do so. After leaving the building, the individual is last seen entering Morningside Park heading towards Morningside Avenue. This information was reported to Columbia Public Safety on March 16, 2022. Additional information can be found on Columbia Public Safety's website. Financial Scams Precinct Notification: The NYPD 26th Precinct has shared that there is an increase in reports of financial scams including in person scams related to requests for individuals to cash a [fraudulent] check at an ATM; by phone, indicating that a loved one is in trouble or hurt and money is needed to assist them; and by electronic communication, offering work and asking for purchased gift cards. Larceny Campus Alert: On Wednesday, March 9th at approximately 12 noon an unknown individual, without authorization, took an unattended laptop from an open area in the Diana Center. This theft was reported to the NYPD precinct. Burglary Neighborhood Alert: On March 7th, 2022 at approximately 03:54am, an individual was seen on CCTV entering 549 Riverside Drive by using a device to manipulate the entry door located on Tiemann Avenue. Once inside the building the person is seen removing multiple packages from the lobbies of 549 Riverside Drive and 195 Claremont Avenue. The known individual was last seen traveling Northbound on Broadway into the train station located at W. 125th Street and Broadway. This information was reported to NYPD. More information can be found on Columbia Public Safety's website. Robbery Neighborhood Alert: On Thursday March 3, 2022 at 10:32pm an individual reported they were the victim of a robbery on West 114th Street and Amsterdam Ave. An unidentified person blocked the walking path of the reporting individual demanding money. As the individual handed over some cash, the person demanded the rest of the money and grabbed it from the individual's hand. The offender was last seen entering the subway station at West 115th Street and Broadway. Additional information can be found on Columbia Public Safety's webpage. February 2022 Burglary Clery Alert: On February 27, 2022, at 2340 hours, at 600 W 116th Street, a known individual is observed via CCTV making unauthorized entry into an closed, unlocked storage space and departing having taken items without permission or authorization. Subway Safety Neighborhood Alert: New York City’s new subway safety plan is in the news as a response to an uptick in incidents in subway stations, platforms and subway cars throughout the City. On Saturday, February 19, at approximately 9:30 pm an individual was transported from the 116th Street 1 Train station to the hospital, that individual was slashed in the arm while on the train after getting into a verbal dispute with a subject who was smoking on the train. Robbery Neighborhood Alert: On Wednesday February 9, 2022 at 4:45 pm, an individual reported they were followed from the subway at 116th Street/Broadway and approached at 120th Street and Morningside Drive. An unknown person demanded the victim’s headphones and cell phone. No weapon was displayed. Additional information can be found on Columbia Public Safety's webpage. Larceny of Packages Neighborhood Alert: On Tuesday February 1, 2022 at 10:53pm, two unknown persons entered the lobby of 517 West 121st Street and removed numerous packages from the lobby without permission or authorization. Further investigation revealed they also entered 130 Morningside Drive and 423 West 118th Street removing packages. Additional information can be found on Columbia Public Safety's webpage. Graffiti / Property Damage Neighborhood Alert: On Tuesday February 1, 2022 at 2:20am, a person entered the lobby of 520 West 114th Street and made graffiti markings on the vestibule wall inside the building. The individual was later identified, an arrest was made. January 2022 Burglary Neighborhood Alert: Two instances of unauthorized access to buildings in the 500 block of W. 114th Street have been shared. On Saturday, January 22, 2022 at 7:00pm an individual entered 528 West 114th Street and removed property without permission. Further investigation revealed that the same individual entered inside the lobby of 526 West 114th Street on Sunday January 23, 2022 at 7:50am. Additional information can be found on Columbia Public Safety's webpage. Robbery Neighborhood Alert: An individual reported to Columbia Public Safety that they were the victim of a robbery in front of 3170 Broadway at approximately 8:30pm on Tuesday, January 18. A male approached on the sidewalk and stated that he had a knife and demanded money from the individual. That person gave him money and the unidentified male walked east on West 125th Street away from Broadway. It is believed that the male frequents the vicinity of 3180 Broadway and is suspected of being aggressive with other members of the community. More information can be found on Columbia Public Safety's webpage. 2021 Burglary Neighborhood Alert: On Thursday, December 30, 2021 at approximately 7:30pm, an unknown male entered 606 West 116th Street by prying the front door open with an object. Once inside the building, the person was seen by a tenant removing property without permission. The individual fled the building prior to Columbia Public Safety or NYPD arrival. See additional information from Columbia Public Safety. Burglary Neighborhood Alert: Identified pattern of theft of packages/burglary in buildings in the neighborhood. On December 8, 2021 at approximately 11:40am at 195 Claremont Avenue and on December 11, 2021 at approximately 1:50am at 420 W. 116th Street an unknown individual unlawfully entered building lobbies causing damage and removing property. These incidents were classified by the NYPD as burglary incidents and likely related to similar November incidents. See additional information from Columbia Public Safety. Fondling Neighborhood Alert: On December 4, 2021 at approximately 3:42 pm, Columbia Public Safety received three reports of unwanted sexual contact by an unknown male individual. The complainants state they were walking on Broadway between 113 and 114th street and report they were grabbed from behind. The individual was last seen traveling southbound on Broadway fleeing into the subway at 110th street. See additional information from Columbia Public Safety. Robbery Neighborhood Alert: On December 4, information was shared by Columbia Public Safety regarding notification of a robbery pattern which occurred on December 2nd, 2021. An unidentified individual approached two people in separate incidents demanding money. Both incidents are reported to have occurred in the vicinity of Amsterdam Avenue between W. 109th street and W. 111th street. In the first incident money was turned over, and in the second incident the individual fled Northbound on Amsterdam after the affiliate refused his demands for money. Homicide and Assault Neighborhood Alert: The NYPD shared on December 3, 2021 the following details regarding two stabbings that occurred on the night of December 2: A preliminary investigation revealed that at approximately 10:50pm the first stabbing may have occurred on West 123 Street between Morningside Avenue and Amsterdam Avenue. The victim in this incident was pronounced deceased at Mount Sinai Morningside hospital at approximately 01:30 am. NYPD Officers responded to a second stabbing at approximately 11:08 pm near West 110th Street and Columbus Avenue. An investigation revealed that the victim was stabbed in the abdomen and the back somewhere between Morningside Drive and Manhattan Avenue along the park edge near West 110th Street. Shortly after the second stabbing, a third victim flagged down officers, who were conducting a canvass for the perpetrator, and reported that he was menaced by a man with a knife along the West Drive of Central Park near West 110th Street. The individual was identified and an arrest was made. NYPD and NYC Parks Officials indicate there will be enhanced patrols in the area during the days ahead. Robbery Neighborhood Alert: On November 30, 2021 at approximately 5:15pm two people reported a robbery, an unknown individual took cash, on the park side of Riverside Drive near 111th Street, and fled south on Riverside drive. Information was reported to NYPD. Burglary Neighborhood Alert: On November 9th, 2021 at approximately 8:18pm, an unknown individual entered 430 W. 116th street by using an unknown device to manipulate the lock on the lobby door of a residential building. Once inside the building the person removed a resident's package without permission or authority to do so. The individual is last seen traveling Southbound on Amsterdam Avenue past 115th street. Larceny of Bicycle Neighborhood Alert: On Wednesday November 10, 2021, at approximately 2:01pm an individual identified by the Columbia Public Safety Department was observed on camera having removed an electric bicycle from the front of the North West Corner building, 550 West 120th Street, by cutting the cable that secured it. Burglary Neighborhood Alert: On November 7th, 2021 at approximately 02:11pm, an unknown individual entered 404 W. 116th street by using an unknown device to manipulate the lock on the Lobby Door. Once inside the building the person removed multiple packages without permission and also removed a bicycle from the basement of the building after forcing open a secured door using an unknown device. The person is last seen traveling Southbound on Broadway past 113th street. See additional information from Columbia Public Safety. Theft of Scooter Neighborhood Alert: On November 4th, 2021 at approximately 10:13am, an unidentified individual removed an electric scooter by cutting the cable lock which was secured to the bike rack in front of CEPSR (530 W. 120th street). The person was last seen riding the scooter Northbound on Amsterdam Avenue past 122nd street. Assault Neighborhood Alert: On October 22, 2021, an arrest was made of the individual who is reported to have engaged in several assaults in he north end of Riverside Park. According to the NYPD 26th precinct, there were multiple incidents of a male, likely mentally unstable, who was throwing rocks from above in the area of 125th Street and 12th Avenue (in the area of the stairs from the park down to the road). An incident occurred on the morning of 10/22 when the precinct engaged surveillance and made an arrest of the individual who matched the description of each of the reported incidents. Burglary Neighborhood Alert: On October 14, 2021 at approximately 8:25pm a non-affiliate male followed an affiliate into Mudd Building campus level entrance and removed a laptop from an unsecured office the individual attempted to enter other spaces before leaving the building. Simple Assault Neighborhood Alert: On October 14, 2021 at approximately 9:00pm an affiliate walking south on Broadway toward 110th St. was approached by an unknown male who hit their arm and asked for money. The person continued walking North on Broadway when money was declined. Information was reported to the 26th precinct. Harassment Neighborhood Alert: On October 7th, 2021 at approximately 10:49pm an unknown male individual made unwanted contact with a reporting party under the Amsterdam Bridge near 119th street & Amsterdam Avenue. The male is seen on CCTV grabbing and holding the reporting party’s arm while walking from 119th street to 120th street on Amsterdam Avenue. This was reported to Columbia Public Safety. Robbery Neighborhood Alert: On Monday, September 27, 2021 in the late night/early morning hours there was an attempted robbery in front of John Jay Hall. Columbia Public Safety was notified, responded immediately and apprehended the suspect. The police arrested the suspect and all property was returned. Robbery Neighborhood Alert: On Friday, September 24, 2021, at approximately 9:00 P.M. in front of 362 Riverside Drive (between 108th and 109th Streets) upon completing a food delivery, a food delivery person was approached by three individuals who demanded his moped. One of the individuals brandished a knife while the other used physical force to remove the moped. Two of the individuals were last seen heading north on Riverside Drive while the other headed south with the moped. This information shared by Columbia University Public Safety. If you have any information about this crime, please contact the 24 Pct. Detective Squad at 212-678-1863 Robbery Neighborhood Alert: On Friday, September 17, 2021, at approximately 10:40 P.M., two Teacher's College affiliates were victims of a robbery while walking northbound on the west side of Amsterdam Avenue between West 118th Street and West 120th Street. The suspect parked and exited from a black Nissan Sentra possibly a 2010 or newer model, and approached the two individuals. The suspect stated that he had a gun, and then reached into the pockets of the students and removed their wallets and one cell phone. He demanded that the owner of the cell phone unlock it. He then removed debit and credit cards from the two wallets and tossed the wallets to the ground. The suspect then re-entered the vehicle and fled the scene driving southbound on Amsterdam Avenue. See additional details. Harassment Neighborhood Alert: On September 17, 2021 at approximately 3:40 pm, it was reported that an unidentified male followed an affiliate inside of Kent Hall. The affiliate felt uncomfortable and the individual engaged in unwanted physical contact. Columbia Public Safety attempted to interact with the individual, but the person fled out of the Columbia Gate onto 114th street going eastbound on 114th street. Contact Barnard Community Safety or Columbia Public Safety if you or someone you know experiences harassment of this nature. Information from the 26th Precinct - Lasalle Street, near Broadway The message below is from the 26th precinct regarding a recent isolated incident involving a shooting in an area just north of Campus As noted below, the Precinct has increased patrol attention to the area. It is always important to remain alert and aware of your surroundings. Do not hesitate to contact the CARES Line at 212-854-3362 or email CARESTeam@barnard.edu if you would like to request a safety information session for your group or organization. Information Regarding Recent Non-Fatal Shooting in the Confines of the 26th Precinct Dear Community Partners, I write to you to bring to your attention a non-fatal shooting incident that occurred this past Saturday, September 11th, at approximately 8:20 pm, in front of 55 La Salle Street. The incident involved the shooting of a victim (known to the police department) by an acquaintance of his. At the moment, it appears that this incident is isolated and not the result of a dispute between rivaling groups. Video images of the incident have been collected by our detective squad and the investigation is ongoing. In the meantime, our partners in Housing Police Service Area 6 have established a post at the shooting location in order to deter any further acts of violence. Acts of violence, such as this one, are alarming and naturally raise concern. I want to assure the members of this community that the NYPD is doing everything we can to maintain the safety of everyone in the neighborhood. As always, we are asking anyone with information regarding this crime, or any other, to contact our detectives at 212-678-1351, or report anonymously at 1-800-577-TIPS. Thank you and stay safe, Alex Deputy Inspector Alexandra Sarubbi Commanding Officer, 26th Precinct 520 West 126th Street , New York, NY 10027 alexandra.sarubbi@nypd.org Follow us on Twitter @NYPD26Pct & on Facebook at NYPD26Pct Larceny of Packages Neighborhood Alert: On August 7, 2021 at approximately 6:40 PM, an unknown individual rang a building's intercom to gain entry to make a food delivery in the 600 block of 115th Street. On the way out of the building, the individual was seen on video removing several packages from the lobby. The packages were ripped open and their contents removed. The individual was last seen walking southbound on Riverside Drive. A police report is on file with the NYPD. Robbery Neighborhood Alert: On May 11, 2021 at approximately 1825 hours unknown individuals used physical force to take a wallet and AirPods from an individual when he was entering Riverside Park at 115th Street. No weapons were displayed. This information was shared by Columbia University Public Safety as reported to NYPD. No further information available at the time of reporting. Burglary Neighborhood Alert: On April 25, 2021 at about 8:00 a.m., an unknown individual forced open the lobby door of 15 Claremont Ave and once inside, removed property. The subject fled south on Claremont Ave. from the building. This information was provided by Columbia University Public Safety, find additional information on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Larceny of Packages Neighborhood Alert: On April 8, 2021 at approximately 7:15 PM inside of 423 West 118th Street an unknown individual entered into the building by “tailgating” behind a tenant. Once inside of the building the individual is observed on CCTV removing several packages from the lobby. The individual was last seen walking northbound on Amsterdam Ave past West 122 Street. A police report is on file with the NYPD. Robbery Neighborhood Alert: According to the 26th Precinct of NYPD, two unknown individuals used physical force to take a bicycle from an individual in front of 525 West 122nd Street. This incident took place on Monday, March 22nd at approximately 8:20 pm. The individuals were last seen riding a dark colored moped and the stolen bicycle north on Amsterdam Avenue. Robbery Neighborhood Alert: On March 18, 2021 at approximately 2am, a robbery took place in the neighborhood nearby. Columbia University shared that two undergraduate students were accosted at 114th St. and Broadway by 2 male suspects. While a weapon was displayed, fortunately no one was injured and the subjects were quickly apprehended and arrested by the NYPD. Larceny of packages Neighborhood Alert: On March 11th, 2021 just after 7pm, an individual entered 195 Claremont by tailgating a resident through the main entrance door. Upon entering the building, the individual is seen removing several packages from the main lobby without permission. The person is last seen traveling Northbound on Broadway past 125th street. This information was provided by Columbia University Public Safety, find additional information on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Harassment Campus Alert: On Monday, March 8, 2021 around 8:30am an individual was walking south on Broadway from 120th Street when an unknown male began to follow and speak aggressively and threateningly. The individual attempted to avoid the male, a second individual observed the interaction seeking to intervene in the harassing exchange. Upon approaching the main gate to Barnard, the Officer at the location stepped out of the booth, heard the concern and flagged down a police vehicle nearby. The offending male was aggressive toward multiple individuals, was subsequently apprehended by NYPD and removed form the scene. Attempted Robbery Neighborhood Alert: In front of 536 West 113th Street on Sunday, March 7th, 2021, at approximately 4:40 pm two unknown individuals used physical force while attempting to remove a non-affiliates bicycle. Both individuals were last seen riding a dark colored moped north on Broadway. This information was provided by Columbia University Public Safety, find additional information on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Robbery Neighborhood Alert: At 405 W. 118th Street on February 24th, 2021 at approximately 09:58pm, there was a robbery of an e-bike from a delivery person. The Columbia Department of Public Safety was notified by an unknown person, that he was witness to the robbery in front of 405 W. 118th Street. A video review showed that at approximately 09:55pm two individuals on an electric scooter approached an unknown delivery person who locked his E-Bike in front of the building and after brandishing a knife, removed the E-bike from its location while the delivery person/victim fled Westbound towards Amsterdam avenue. The persons were last seen traveling Northbound on Amsterdam Avenue past 122nd street. This information was provided by Columbia University Public Safety, find additional information on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. SCAM ALERT: Local Incident: On February 10, 2021 at approximately 5:41pm inside of the Chase Bank at 2898 Broadway (Corner of West 113th Street), an unknown individual asked a person using the ATM to deposit a check into the affiliate’s account and withdraw money in exchange. This was a scam, a fraudulent check was deposited and the unknown individual left with cash. Note: There is a Chase bank branch three blocks south to which someone asking for assistance can be referred. Larceny of packages Neighborhood Alert: On January 15, 2021 at approximately 03:06am, an unidentified person entered 195 Claremont Avenue after ringing the building's intercom to gain entry. Upon entering the building, the person is seen on CCTV removing several packages from the building lobby without permission or authority to do so. This information was provided by Columbia University Public Safety, find additional information on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. 2020 Larceny of packages On November 11th, 2020 at approximately 06:28pm, an unidentified person entered 519 W. 121st street after posing as a delivery person. Upon entering the building, the person is seen on CCTV removing several packages from the building lobby without permission or authority to do so. The person is last seen entering a yellow cab on the corner of 121st street and Broadway, traveling Northbound on Broadway. This information was provided by Columbia University Public Safety, find additional information on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Robbery Neighborhood Crime Alert: On Sunday October 25th, 2020 at about 6:33 pm, two unknown individuals used force to attempt to remove property from the owner of the newsstand located in front of Lerner Hall - 2920 Broadway. Download the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert for more information. Robbery Neighborhood Crime Alert: On Tuesday August 11, 2020, NYPD advised of two robberies that occurred on the northeast corner of W 110th street and Broadway. On Monday August10, 2020 at 9:32AM, the unknown person displayed a box cutter and demanded property from two individuals. On Tuesday August 11, 2020 at 10:00AM the same person accompanied by another person forcibly removed property from an individual. On both dates, the offender fled east on 110th street towards Amsterdam Ave. Contact NYPD if you have any information. Robbery Neighborhood Crime Alert: On Sunday July 19, 2020 at approximately 1:38 AM on the corner of W 122nd street and Broadway, an unidentified man removed property from another person by striking the person from behind causing that person to fall to the ground, sustaining injuries and losing consciousness. The offending individual was last seen walking north on Broadway towards W 123rd street. This information was provided by Columbia University Public Safety, find additional information on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Larceny On Thursday, May 21, 2020, an individual used a power tool to cut through bicycle locks in two locations. The first incident occurred at 1:20 PM at the JLG bike rack on W. 129th Street. The person left the scene without the bicycle. The second incident occurred at 1:35 PM in front of 450 Riverside Drive. The person was last seen riding the bicycle North on Riverside Drive. This was reported by Columbia University Public Safety, find additional information on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Larceny On April 1, 2020 at approximately 7:50 PM, an unknown individual gained entry into 610 West 115th Street by ringing the buildings intercom. Once inside the building the individual removed numerous packages from the lobby. The individual was last seen traveling north bound on Broadway on a MTA Bus. This was reported by Columbia University Public Safety, see the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Burglary On March 24, 2020, at 1:30 P.M., an individual unlawfully entered and stole packages from the lobby of 500 W. 122nd Street. This person was last seen entering Riverside Park at Tiemann Place and Riverside Drive. This incident and previously reported incidents in the area are being investigated by the NYPD as a Burglary pattern. This was reported by Columbia University Public Safety, see the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Larceny Two individuals entered 500 W 122 Street on numerous occasions between March 14 and March 24, 2020 and removed packages from the lobby without permission or authority to do so. Video indicates individuals left wakling north on Claremont Avenue from W. 122nd Street. This was reported to Columbia University Public Safety, see the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Burglary On March 11, 2020 at about 12:57 A.M., an individual entered the lobby of 506 W. 122 St. by using a device to manipulate the lock. Once inside the individual removed the contents of a package without permission or authority to do so. The individual is last seen on CCTV heading north on Claremont Avenue from W. 122 St., riding a bicycle. This was reported to Columbia University Public Safety, see the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Fondling On March 10, 2020, at approximately 8:10 p.m., an individual reported to Barnard Public Safety that she was approached by a man on 110th Street at Manhattan Avenue and asked directions. The man went to shake her hand, grabbed her hand and pulled it to his crotch. Subject was described as a white male, approximately 5'6", middle aged. No further description was provided. Fondling On March 9, 2020, an individual reported to Columbia University Public Safety that she was approached as she exited Butler library at approximately 8:15 pm. The individual attempted to engage her in conversation. She continued walking and did not engage in any conversation. The other person then grabbed her buttocks. See the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Burglary On March 9, 2020 at approximately 4:30 PM, inside of 562 West 113th Street (McBain), an individual (identified by photo), entered and damaged the vending machine attempting to remove currency. The individual left the area in an unknown direction. This was reported to Columbia University Public Safety, see the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Assault On February 23 at approximate 0120am, in the 116th Street one train station, an individual reported to the MTA attendant that she was grabbed by a man as she was walking up the stairs from the uptown platform. She was not injured during the incident pulled her arm away once grabbed, the man also briefly grabbed her hair. The individual stated the man might have been under the influence, there was no further description provided of the man or direction of travel. Assault On February 17, 2020 at approximately 5:15pm an individual reported an assault on the west side of Broadway between W. 119 St. and W. 120 St. by an unknown individual. The unknown individual is described as a male, light skinned, 28-30 years, 5’5”-5’7”, brown hair with a mustache and beard. The individual was wearing a green puffy jacket, gray jeans and a black beanie. The unknown individual was last seen heading north on the west side of Broadway toward W. 121 St. This was reported to Columbia University Public Safety, see the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Burglary (theft of packages) On February 12, 2020 at approximately 12:47pm, an unknown person entered the lobby of 502 West 122nd Street by bypassing the main door lock with an unknown object and removing a package from the lobby. The same person was also observed on camera footage to be entering other buildings in the area using the same method. They removed another package from 500 West 122nd Street. Additional details are found on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Larceny (theft of packages) On January 21, 2020 at approximately 5:47pm, an unknown person entered the lobby of 526 W.113th Street as someone was exiting and removed a package without permission or authority to do so. This person was last seen walking south on Broadway. Additional details are found on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Burglary (theft of packages) On January 20, 2020 at approximately 4:37pm, an individual entered 500 W. 122nd Street by tampering with the main entry door and removed packages from the lobby without permission or authority to do so. Upon exiting the building, the individual is seen entering 512 W. 112th Street at approximately 4:54 pm by using the same method. There is a suspect in these incidents. Additional details are found on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Larceny (theft of packages) On January 18, 2020 at approximately 5:53 PM inside of 610 West 115th Street, an unknown individual attempted to bypass the main doors lock but was unsuccessful. The individual did gain entry by “piggybacking” behind another person entering the building. Inside of the building, the individual was observed removing 8 packages from the lobby. The individual was last seen walking eastbound on West 115th Street toward Broadway. Additional details are found on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Burglary (theft of packages) On January 17, 2020 at approximately 6:55 AM, inside of 511 West 113th Street, an unknown person bypassed the door lock and gained entry to the building. Once inside the building, the person opened numerous packages and removed their contents. Further CCTV review shows this person entering other buildings in the area from 6:25 AM to 6:55 AM. The person was last seen walking eastbound on West 113 Street toward Morningside Drive. on January 18, 2020 at approximately 6AM an individual appearing similar to the unknown person in the incident on 1/17/2020 bypassed the door lock and entered 434Riverside Drive, removing property from numerous rooms. The person was last seen walking South on Riverside Drive. Additional details are found on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Burglary (theft of packages) On January 9, 2020 at approximately 6:55 PM, inside of 512 West 112 Street, an unknown individual gained entry by using an unknown tool to bypass the locked door. Once inside the building the individual opened several packages and removed their contents. The same individual on January 9, 2020 at 7:31 PM did “piggyback” (followed a resident) into 500 West 122 Street and removed two packages. The individual was last seen walking northbound on Amsterdam Ave. Additional details are found on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Assault On January 9, 2020 at approximately 4:00 PM, an Assault took place on Broadway between West 112th and West 113t Street at 3:00 PM. The unknown individual did strike a pedestrian on the head with an unknown object causing an injury. The unknown individual was last seen running eastbound on West 113th Street toward Amsterdam Ave. Additional details are found on the Columbia University Public Safety Crime Alert webpage. Jeanne Clery Act & Campus Notifications What is a Timely Warning? Timely Warnings, also called "Clery Crime Alerts," are provided to enhance the safety of the campus community by giving students, faculty and staff notification of crimes that occur on or nearby campus property, and are considered by the compliance team of the Community Accountability, Response & Emergency Services (CARES) Department to present a serious or continuing threat to students and employees. These Clery Crime Alerts are issued in compliance with federal law, specifically the Clery Act, for selected crimes presenting ongoing threat in specific locations. They do not present, nor are they intended to present, a complete picture of crime on campus. Information in addition to alerts shared in compliance with The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act or Clery Act may be provided. For example, information about other concerning or criminal behavior may also be shared with the community on this webpage or in other campus communication to support prevention efforts. Timely Warning, Emergency Notifications & Crime Information Details The Clery Team of the CARES Department is responsible for preparing and issuing a Clery Crime Alert whenever a crime that is reported to them represents an ongoing or continuing threat to members of the campus community. Information for such alerts may also come from information supplied to the Community Safety Unit by the NYPD when such information represents current, ongoing threat to the campus. When sufficient details about such an incident are known, a message will be prepared and distributed as an alert to the entire community, via the mass notification e-mail system. There are also instances when an Emergency Notification to the Barnard community is warranted. This is when there is confirmation of a significant emergency or dangerous situation that involves an immediate threat to the health or safety of the campus community occurring on campus. A message may be sent via text and/or email to provide the nature of emergency and actions to consider or avoid. Safety Alerts may be shared with the community to convey important safety information relevant to the community but not meeting the criteria of Clery Act specifications. The College Clery Team may add general crime and safety information to this webpage when an incident is shared with the Team but does not present current, ongoing threat as this type of awareness also provides helpful information for individual and community safety. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262