Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information CARES CARES Department Staff Who We Are Who We Are Associate Vice President Training and Outreach Community Safety Nondiscrimination/Title IX Preparedness Response Team Image Amy Zavadil (She/Her) Amy Zavadil (She/Her) is the Associate Vice President for Community Accountability, Response, and Emergency Services (CARES). Dr. Zavadil earned a Ph.D. in Counselor Education and Supervision, with an emphasis in college student development and support staff who work with college students. She has spent more than a decade in higher education primarily in student conduct and compliance roles, served as the College’s Associate Dean for Equity and our inaugural Title IX Coordinator from 2011 to 2017, and returned to Barnard in August of 2019. She has a variety of experiences prior to higher education that informs her work, including having served as a volunteer coordinator for a regional Community Emergency Response Team. She finds joy in travel and photography. Image Rose Ronde (She/Her) Rose Ronde (She/Her), as Associate Director for Training and Outreach, serves CARES supporting training across all areas of the Department. She supports emergency and non-emergency response and serves as part of the training team, including providing First Aid training. Community Safety Image Joseph Jimenez (He/Him) Joseph Jimenez (He/Him) serves Community Safety as the Director of Administration & Technology. He supervises the Access Attendant staff and oversees security technology including the card reader access control system. Image Esau Figueroa (He/Him) Esau Figueroa (He/Him) serves Community Safety as Director of Operations, overseeing daily security personnel. He also serves on the Clery compliance team. Nondiscrimination and Title IX Image Elizabeth Scott-Francis (She/Her) Dr. Elizabeth Scott-Francis (She/Her) is the Director of Nondiscrimination & Title IX. Prior to joining Barnard in January 2021, she served as the assistant director of residence life in the Division of Student Development at The Juilliard School, program coordinator for residential colleges in the Office of the Vice Provost at Vanderbilt University, and the assistant director for honor enrichment and community standards in the Office of the Dean of Students at Christopher Newport University. Preparedness Image Gary Maroni (He/Him) Gary Maroni (He/Him), serves CARES Fire Safety and Preparedness, overseeing fire safety efforts and serving on the Emergency Management Committee. He contributes to training for CARES staff and members of the campus community. Response Team Image Jeff Manning (He/Him) Jeff Manning is the Director of CARES Operations. Jeff earned his M.S. at Miami University in Student Affairs in Higher Education with a focus on student development theory and administration. Jeff Has spent over a decade in higher education working in both Residential and Student Life. Jeff came to Barnard to assist with the implementation of the Pandemic Response Team, where he lead the quarantine and isolation efforts on campus. Jeff’s experience creating this team, lead to his work developing the Response Team as part of the CARES restructuring. Outside of his work at Barnard, Jeff enjoys travel, audiobooks, theater and Doritos. Image Priya Dutt (They/Them) Priya Dutt is a CARES Responder/Call-Taker. Priya is currently pursuing a Master's in Public Health at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. They really enjoyed going on long drives and hiking early on in the pandemic. They find intrinsic value in reading, writing, woodworking, and volleyball. They are also an advocate for nature, look forward to becoming a turtle, and find joy in backcountry camping. Image Darin Patrick (He/Him) Darin Patrick is a CARES Call Taker. Darin has had the opportunity to work in customer-facing roles throughout different industries from finance to education. Within these roles, Darin has been able to learn that no one interaction is the same. This has led him to foster skills in building rapport and showing empathy with all those encountered. Darin has found joy in scenic location exploration during the pandemic. This, combined with his interest in photography, has led to some Instagram worthy photos! Image Julie Cardinal (She/Her) Julie Cardinal has been a CARES Responder since August 2021. Julie has a Master’s degree in Education and Bachelor’s degree in Women’s and Gender Studies from Rutgers University. Julie spent 10 years working in Residence Life at Universities throughout the Northeast. Now, Julie loves opportunities to connect with students and to support them as they navigate challenges here at Barnard. She enjoys reading, traveling and exploring the city with her two chihuahuas. Krista Stites (She/Her) Krista Stites is a CARES Responder. Krista has been involved with crisis work surrounding LGBTQIA+ communities and finds her passion in applying queer theory to every day life. Krista holds her M.Ed from Grand Valley State University in College Student Affairs Leadership with an emphasis in queer student development. Krista enjoys creating art, poetry, connecting with people, and exploring nature with her dog Murph. Emiliano Sanchez (He/Him) Emiliano Sanchez is a CARES Responder. Emiliano has a Bachelor’s degree in Film and Media from the FIT and has experience working as an art teacher for after-school students. Emiliano joined Barnard as an Isolation Runner for the Pandemic Response Team, where he delivered essentials and testing kits to students in quarantine. Emiliano enjoys Greg Selewski (He/Him) Greg Selewski is a CARES Responder at Barnard College. He holds a degree in Political Theory and Constitutional Democracy from Michigan State University and is currently pursuing a MA in Philosophy and Psychoanalysis. Greg finds intrinsic value in reading, writing, woodworking, and volleyball. Greg’s favorite pokemon is a tie between Scyther and Abra, but finds minor frustration with pokemon that have nonlinear or nonexistent evolutionary lines. Greg is also an advocate for nature and finds joy in backcountry camping. Elizabeth Levi (She/Her) Elizabeth Levi is a CARES Responder at Barnard College. She holds a degree in Political Science from Macalester College, a Masters in Social Work with an emphasis on gender/sexuality work, and is currently in Law School at New York Law School. Elizabeth enjoys running outside, advocacy work relating to women’s health and autonomy isses, poetry, murder mysteries, and spending time connecting to her friends and loved ones. Erica Fraser (She/Her) Erica Fraser is a part time Cares Responder at Barnard College. Erica holds a Bachelor’s degree in Psychology and Sociology from the UWC in South Africa. Erica has extensive experience in working in the field of education both as preschool teacher, admissions specialist in a national workforce development organization and running evidence based groups for families. Erica loves spending time with family and friends outside of work. Hannah Lynn Baptiste (She/Her) Hannah Lynn Baptiste (She/Her) is an overnight Responder at Barnard College working from Wednesday-Sunday from 11pm-7am. Hannah holds a Bachelor's degree in Public Health and Communication from the State University of New York College at Geneseo and is currently pursuing a Master's in Public Health at NYU. Hannah enjoys chasing her dog Sampson, advocacy work relating to women empowerment and teen dating violence, traveling, documentaries, and spending time with friends and her grandparents. Alison Potts (She/Her) As the Operations Coordinator, Alison Potts handles all the administrative tasks for the CARES department providing all the assistance and support needed. Alison was born and raised in Alabama. She holds a Bachelor’s and a Master’s degree both from The University of Alabama. Outside of the office, Alison enjoys reading, doing yoga, and empowering women and marginalized communities. Alison’s biggest passion is social justice and she enjoys watching The Bachelorette. Learn more about how the CARES Department can serve you Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262