Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Back MOVING OUT (up level ▲) Move Out Extensions Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Residential Life & Housing > Residence Hall Handbook > Procedures Moving Out PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Check Out Deadlines Fall 2021 9am Thursday, December 23, 2021 Applies both to students who aren't returning for the Spring and who are doing mid-year room changes. Extensions are not available. Spring 2022 Non-Seniors Students are expected to move out within 24 hours of their last scheduled exam or by no later than 5pm on Friday, May 13, 2022; whichever comes first. Students who apply for Summer Housing may additionally apply for May Interim housing to bridge between the end of the Spring and the start of the Summer. Other students may receive programatic extensions due to working at graduation, etc. Graduating Seniors 10am on Thursday, May 19, 2022 (students must be confirmed as taking part in Commencement) How to Check Out from Your Room 2 steps for checking out! When students move out of their room, they must complete BOTH steps below to officially check out: Turn in a CHECK-OUT ENVELOPE at your residence hall Front Desk Don't forget to write your name and room number on the envelope! Please turn in an envelope even if you lost the key(s) to your room. Submit the CONFIRM CHECK-OUT FORM (log into Housing Portal or scan QR code at Front Desk) to confirm your departure from campus. Failure to submit the Check-Out Envelope and/or online Form by the move-out deadline will result in a minimum $100 Improper Check-Out Fee. Missing keys will result in a $100 per key replacement charge. Students who fail to move out by their check-out deadline will be subject to escalating fines (starting at $100) and disciplinary action. Planning for your Move Out 24-hour Quiet Hour Period The reading days and exam week are a 24-Hour Quiet Hour period: Starts: 8pm Monday, May 2, 2022 Ends: 5pm Thursday, May 12, 2022 Preparing to Move Out Plan with your suitemates who will clean what & when. Students are expected to clean their bedrooms, bathrooms, and kitchens. Start packing in advance! Don’t forget to check all your drawers, closets, etc. Don’t wait until the last minute to check out! Elevators, carts, & street parking will be limited. Information about any check-out or damage charges will be sent to your Barnard email account after move-out. If you will not be checking that account over the summer, please set up your email to forward to any account that you will be checking. Summer Storage Off-Campus Unfortunately there is no storage space available on campus, but many vendors offer fee-based summer storage services to students. Students are responsible for negotiating rates, dates, and details with their selected vendor. List of Summer Storage Vendors Donating Items (Give & Go Green) The Barnard Campus Sustainability and Climate Action office is sponsoring an opportunity for students to donate items when moving out. All collected items are donated to local non-profit organizations such as Gradbag or stored over the summer for resale at the NSOP Green Sale. Items that can’t be rehomed but are recyclable are diverted from landfill. From May 9 to May 19, items can be dropped off at the locations below. Please click the link to make a drop-off appointment. Note: items may not be left outside of collections times (and items may not be dropped off in residence hall lobbies or lounges). LeFrak Cathedral Gardens - 6B 121 - Sidewalk Tent Plimpton - Sidewalk Tent 110 - Sidewalk Tent What can students donate for reuse or donation? Textbooks Bedding and linens School/office supplies Dry and Clean Mini Fridges Dry and Clean Kitchen Gear Lamps/lighting Fans Storage bins Dorm decor Drying racks, irons, steamers Hangers, closet organizers, shoe racks Clothing, shoes, accessories Unopened, non-perishable foods Unopened, personal care products Cleaning Supplies What can I donate for recycling? Foam mattress pads E-waste, printer cartridges, batteries Looking to find new homes for your items yourself? Check out Rheaply, our online platform designed to facilitate the exchange of items among the Barnard Community. Move Out Assistance / Guest Access to the Residence Halls As a reminder, only BC/CU ID holders are currently able to be signed in as guests to the residence halls (guest policy and limitations). Starting May 3, students can have one (1) non-affiliate individual helper (ex. a family member) register to provide support moving out of the residence halls. The Helper must submit the Residential Move Out Assistance Form (no earlier than 3 hours before arrival) prior to entering the residence hall with their host, in order to fulfil the Barnard Health Screening process. The student Host must meet their Helper in the lobby for sign-in and is required to remain with the Helper at all times. The Helper must wear a mask at all times over their nose and mouth while indoors, regardless of vaccination status. The Helper will only be allowed in the residence hall of the student they are assisting. Helper sign-in will be permitted daily between 8am-8pm only. Helpers may not stay overnight in the residence halls. Students who have a need for additional move out assistance may submit a request through CARDS@barnard.edu (to request a disability accommodation). Moving Carts A limited number of carts will be available for check-out from the front desk of each residence hall. A photo ID is required to borrow a cart for one hour. Student are encouraged to bring their own cart, hand truck, or dolly if possible. Parking Please do not leave any cars double parked without someone in it. Unattended and/or double parked cars block others from accessing the buildings and may be ticketed or towed by NYPD. List of Parking Garages Cleaning & Damage Charges Students are responsible for returning their room to the same condition it was in when they moved in (including cleaning their room and/or moving furniture back to the original positions). Residential Life & Housing staff will inspect rooms after check-out. Students will be assessed charges for any cleaning and/or repair of damages required. Any cleaning or damage charges that cannot be attributable to one roommate and/or suitemate will be shared among all roommates and/or suitemates. List of Damage & Cleaning Fees Students who are assessed cleaning and/or damage charges will be contacted via their Barnard email during the summer to provide them with the amount & description. Students will have a deadline, communicated in the email, by which they may submit any appeals. Students are responsible for checking their Barnard email and/or forwarding their mail to an account that they do check over the summer. Mail Forwarding (or Keeping Your Mailbox Open Over the Summer) Leaving campus for the summer? Remember to change any automatic shipments, deliveries and your default shipping address! Note: Mail Services is unable to forward packages or international mail. Staying on campus this summer? Request to keep your Mail Services mailbox open to receive mail and packages during the summer by completing this form (before May 13). All student mailboxes will be closed for the summer unless notified otherwise by Friday, May 13. Questions? Email mailservices@barnard.edu. Nearby Hotels for Family List of nearby hotels Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262