Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Residential Life & Housing > Residence Hall Handbook 2020-2021 Housing Contract HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract The Housing Contract for the upcoming academic year is available at barnard.edu/reslife/housing-contract. The 2020 Fall Housing Contract (for residents of 113th Street) may be accessed here. Spring 2021 Housing Contract Welcome to Barnard College housing! We are pleased to have you join our residential community for the Spring semester. In light of the many challenges of the pandemic, all community members are required to accept the personal and collective responsibility of maintaining a safe community. In response to the pandemic, the College has made changes to its policies and procedures, and has added a number of COVID-19-related policies and procedures. Detailed information, policies and procedures, including the Student Code of Conduct and Residence Life Handbook can be found on Barnard's new planning website. Students will also be required to sign Barnard's Community Commitment and Personal Responsibility Pledge which is a binding adjunct to this housing Contract. During these extraordinary times, all members of our residential community must act in accordance with the guiding principle that we have a personal responsibility to each other and to protect the well-being of the Barnard community. The College uses Barnard email to communicate to students regarding all official matters. Students are expected to communicate with Residential Life & Housing using their College email account. Terms & Conditions The following terms and conditions apply to all Barnard College students ("Barnard" or the "College") residing in Barnard housing during the Spring 2021 semester and constitute the College's housing contract (the "Contract"). The Contract does not constitute a lease and is not subject to New York State landlord-tenant laws; it confers a limited and revocable license to occupy College housing. This license can be revoked by Barnard College as outlined in the Contract. Residents of 600 W 113th Street Barnard students living in Columbia University's ("Columbia") residence hall at 600 W 113th Street for the Spring semester are bound by the following additional terms and conditions. Students will remain assigned to their Fall room assignment in 600 W 113th Street. Students will be required to enroll in a Columbia Meal Plan (Plan A, B, or D). Students will be required to move out by the date set by Columbia. Students will be charged the room rate set by Columbia. Students will be required to participate in Barnard's COVID-19 testing program and follow all protocols for residential students. Students will be subject to Barnard's cancellation policies, deadlines, and fees posted at http://barnard.edu/reslife/cancellations. Students are bound by the terms and conditions of both the Barnard Housing Contract and the Columbia Occupancy Agreement. Eligibility Only full-time, registered Barnard students who (1) are Juniors or Seniors who were eligible for the 2020 Room Selection process, or (2) met additional requirements set by the College to warrant an exception, may occupy Barnard housing in the Spring 2021 semester. Students must also be in good financial standing and disciplinary standing. Eligibility to live in campus housing is for the Spring 2021 semester only. Eligibility does not confer a guarantee of a room assignment for Summer 2021 or for any subsequent semester. Move-in In order to facilitate physical distancing, each student will be given the opportunity to select a move-in date and time from a list of available dates and times based on their room assignment. Students may move into their assigned room only on the date designated by the College. More information will be shared along with room assignments in December. Students may move in only if they have satisfied any testing, quarantine or isolation required by local, state or federal authority or guidance or by the College. Students must check in no later than 8:00 pm on their designated move-in date. Failure to timely check in may result in the loss of one's room assignment; however, the Contract will remain in effect unless and until the College processes a cancellation form submitted by the student. As this Contract covers the Spring 2021 semester only and circumstances may require students to move out of housing with little advance notice, students are strongly encouraged to bring only necessary personal items that they can quickly and easily pack and move themselves. Please note, the College assumes no responsibility for any student's personal belongings, including those left behind after a student moves out. Nor will the College be responsible for packing, storing or shipping a student's belongings. The College will dispose of any belongings left behind after a student's Move-out date at the student's expense. Move-out The Contract ends on one of the following dates (the "Move-out Date"): Students must move out of the residence halls within 24 hours of their last scheduled exam or no later than 10am on Saturday, April 24, 2021, whichever comes first. Should the College declare a mandatory move-out date in order to preserve the health and safety of the community by closing College housing, every student must move out by the date and time specified by the College. Such a mandatory move-out date may be announced with little advance notice. Students must remove all of their belongings when they move out of College housing. The College assumes no responsibility for a student's personal belongings, including those left behind after the student moves out. All personal items left in College housing after the student moves out will be considered abandoned and will be disposed of by the College at the student's expense. The College assumes no responsibility for packing, storing or shipping any student belongings for any reason. Students must vacate their assigned space, return their room key or keys and submit a completed check-out envelope to the front desk of their residence hall by their Move-out date. Failure to check out as required may result in a fine, key replacement and/or lock change fees, and/or disciplinary action. Upon vacating an assigned space, students are responsible for returning their room and/or suite to a condition suitable for another person to occupy (broom-swept, cleared of personal items, and furnishings reset to a standard position). Failure to return the vacated space to an acceptable condition may result in cleaning and/or damage charges. Any personal items left by the students after their Move-out date will be considered abandoned and disposed of by the College at the student's expense. If a student fails to vacate their room as required, the College reserves the right to change the locks and/or restrict access to the student's room or residence hall. Health and Safety As we come back to campus the health and safety of every member of our community is our collective aim. The College has developed health and safety policies and procedures in accordance with federal, state and local requirements and guidance which all students who will be coming to campus must follow and which are applicable everywhere on campus, including in residence halls. In addition, all students who will be on campus during the Spring 2021 semester must sign the Community Commitment and Personal Responsibility Pledge. While students must comply with all College policies and procedures applicable to them, there are 3 essential behaviors we must all adhere to: Wear a face covering or mask any time you are not in your assigned room; Practice physical distancing of at least 6 feet; and Maintain good hand hygiene, using soap and water or hand sanitizer frequently. No Guests Permitted No guests are permitted in Barnard residence halls, including family, friends and other Barnard students. A student assigned to one residence may not enter a residence hall to which they are not assigned as they would constitute a prohibited guest. Smoke Free Policy Barnard is a smoke-free campus: smoking is not permitted on any Barnard property, including residence halls, campus buildings and grounds. Room Assignment and Occupancy This Contract is for a space in the residence halls, not a specific room, bed or building assignment. The College may make or change room assignments and make changes to room configuration or furnishings at any time for any reason, including in order to facilitate a student's quarantine or isolation. The College will not discriminate in room assignments or any changes on the basis of race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, religious practices, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, socioeconomic status, dietary preferences or disability. Students may only occupy the room to which they have been assigned and only the student assigned to a room may occupy that room. Students may not duplicate their room key or exchange or lend their key to another individual. No commercial business operation, solicitation, sales, marketing, or advertising may be conducted from a student's room. Housing Accommodations Students may request a housing accommodation by registering with CARDS, Barnard's Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services and submitting a housing accommodation request. Meal Plans Requirements All students living in campus housing will be required to purchase a meal plan. Students will be automatically enrolled in the Standard Meal Plan (and may change the Flex 75 or Platinum Meal Plan should they wish). Quarantine or isolation meals will be deducted from each student's meal plan balance. If a student runs out of meals, they will be responsible for the additional costs for daily meals while in quarantine or isolation. For more information about meal plans, prices, and deadlines to change selected meal plans, please visit https://barnard.edu/bursar/tuition-and-fees#meal-plans. Access to Common Space All residence hall lounges, music practice rooms, computer labs, and community kitchens in corridor-style housing will be closed. Access to shared spaces, including bathrooms, laundry facilities, elevators, hallways, and stairwells will be subject to maximum capacity guidelines, physical distancing requirements and any other restrictions that the College may impose or that may be required by local, state, or federal authorities. Room Condition By taking occupancy of the assigned room, the student accepts its condition "as is". Students must review and sign a Room Condition Report Form to confirm the condition of their room when they move in. If a student does not complete this form, the room will be assumed to contain all typical furnishings and be in good condition. When a student moves out, the condition of their room is noted. If a student is found to be responsible for damage to or loss of Barnard property, charges may be billed to their student account. Students must maintain their room and furnishings in a clean, safe and undamaged condition. Students may not make any alterations to the structure or mechanical and electrical systems of their room, including painting and affixing items to the wall except by non-residue strips, tape or blue tape. Cleaning Requirements Students are responsible for cleaning their assigned room, removing waste regularly, placing recyclable materials in designated containers, and maintaining satisfactory sanitation and safety standards as determined by the College. Students assigned to a suite will be responsible for cleaning their shared kitchen space and bathroom(s). Room Charges and Payment Students must pay all Spring 2021 College charges, including for campus housing and meal plans, by the College's Spring payment deadline. Failure to pay such charges by this date will result in forfeiture of the assigned room, however the Contract will remain in effect unless and until the College processes a cancellation form submitted by the student and the student has vacated the room and removed all personal belongings. Students bear the cost incurred by the College of repairing or replacing any part of their room, including furnishings, fixtures equipment and smoke detectors damaged by their negligence or misconduct. Students also bear the cost incurred by the College of cleaning their room if it is not left in broom-swept condition. Students must promptly report any required repairs to Barnard Facilities. Failure to pay any balance owed to the College may result in removal from housing. The College may refer a student's delinquent account to credit bureaus and a collection agency. Students are responsible for paying the collection agency fee which may be based on percentage at a maximum of 35% of the delinquent account, together with all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, interest, penalties and court fees the College incurs in the collection of any delinquent account. The College will withhold a student transcript, diploma or certification of degree until outstanding balances, including those for housing, have been paid. Termination By the Student College housing may be directly affected by NYC Local Law 11 required façade renovation, including (but not limited to) demolition, construction, and other noise producing work. While the College will take measures to minimize the impact of required work initiated by the College, residents must be prepared to accept the unavoidable inconveniences of private, city, state, or federal-initiated work which may take place in close proximity to College housing. Any such impact will not be grounds for student termination of the Contract. Students must submit the Housing Cancellation Request Form. The cancellation request form, deadlines, fees, and prorated refund schedules are available at https://barnard.edu/reslife/cancellations. Students must vacate College housing within 48 hours of the College accepting their cancellation request. Failure to do so may result in additional fees and/or disciplinary action. By the College The College may terminate this Contract in order to preserve the health and safety of an individual or individuals. In the event that the College is unable to perform its obligations under this Contract as a result of Force Majeure, it shall not be liable to the student for direct or consequential damages resulting from lack of performance. "Force Majeure" shall mean epidemics, pandemics, fires, earthquakes, floods, acts of God, strikes, riots or civil commotions, acts of terrorism or other hostilities, litigation, war or other act of any foreign nation, power of government or governmental agency or authority, or any other cause like or unlike any cause above mentioned which is beyond the control of either party. The College may terminate this Contract when a student: Fails to fulfill their responsibilities under the housing Contract; Infringes on the rights of others; Puts at risk their own life or the lives of others; Violates the Community Commitment and Personal Responsibility Pledge, Violates any College policies or procedures, including those related to COVID-19, which may be updated or implemented without advance notice; or Damages their own property or the property of others; Fails to timely pay monies owed to the College; Fails to occupy their assigned room on a full-time basis; Violates terms of the housing Contract; or Is subject to judicial action by a court. The College may impose an interim suspension of a student's right to access housing pending disciplinary or judicial action. Residents whose Contracts are terminated by the College may remain responsible for housing and meal plan costs for the entire Spring 2021 semester except when the College terminates the housing Contract to facilitate shutting down campus housing due to COVID-19 in which case students will be refunded their housing and meal plan costs on a prorated basis. Student Liability Residents assume full liability for any loss or damage to the property of the College or others in the community that was caused by their behavior or actions. Charges are assessed by the College and will be billed to the resident's Bursar account. Failure to pay such charges may be cause for refusal to permit registration or for such other action as may be determined appropriate by the College until sums owed are paid in full. The policy regarding the referral of delinquent accounts for collection also applies to damages and expenses. Any appeal of said charges must be submitted in writing by the resident within 14 days of the charge being posted to the resident's account. Limitation of Liability The College assumes no responsibility for personal injury, or loss of or damage to personal property that occur in its residence halls. The College strongly encourages all residents to secure renter's insurance or ensure that their belongings are covered under their family's insurance policy. Governing Laws and Venue All disputes regarding the construction, interpretation and the parties' obligations under this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York, notwithstanding any of that state's laws to the contrary. The venue and jurisdiction for the resolution of any such disputes shall be in the State or Federal courts located in the state of New York. Medical Permissions The College and its authorized agents and employees, including Residential Life & Housing, Primary Care Health Services and Community Safety staff may provide or secure for the student medical care in the event of illness or injury that necessitates such care. Medical care may include hospitalization, anesthesia, surgery, and/or other treatment. The student agrees that the College is not liable for any costs or expenses associated with any medical care provided. In the event of a health or safety emergency the College may release information about the student to other persons or entities who may need this information to protect the health or safety of the student or others consistent with the requirements of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Reserved Rights of the College The College reserves the right to make changes to the policies governing campus housing to ensure the health and safety of the community. The College reserves the right to impose conditions on a student's right to remain in student housing, including a change in room or building assignment for any reason, including any related to COVID-19. The College reserves the right to make changes to a student's room assignment in order to facilitate a quarantine or isolation as may be required by local, state or federal guidance or authority or the College. The College reserves the right to remove any student from student housing for non-compliance with any College policy or procedure, including those that may be modified or created without advance notice, and the Community Commitment and Personal Responsibility Pledge. The College reserves the right to dismiss any student from College housing for disruptive behavior, including indications that a student cannot adequately take care of their own health and safety in the context of College housing or is a danger to the health and safety of others. The College reserves the right to enter and inspect any room when doing so is necessary for the maintenance of the room or student safety or discipline such as the need to ensure compliance with rules concerning use of rooms, preservation of clean and sanitary conditions, maintenance, extermination of insects and vermin, fire safety and prevention, compliance with local, state and federal laws or in preparation for upcoming renovation work. Residents may not refuse access to a College employee or contractor required to perform their duties and such refusal may lead to disciplinary action. Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262