Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Back SUMMER HOUSING (up level ▲) May Interim August Interim Summer Housing Contract Summer Cancellations Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Residential Life & Housing Summer Housing 2022 PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Application Deadlines: -- Barnard Students: 1pm Tuesday, April 26 -- Visiting Summer Students: 5pm Wednesday, May 25 Eligibility & Priority Summer Rates & Dates Visiting Summer Students Barnard Students:Standard | Subsidized | May Interim | August Interim How to Apply Disability Housing Accommodations Assignments & Billing Check-In & Check-Out (and Move In/Out Assistance) Cancellation Policy Alternative Summer Housing Options (off-campus) Eligibility & Priority Currently matriculated Barnard students who will be enrolled at the College for the Fall 2022 semester may apply for summer housing. Students must be in "good standing" to be considered (no outstanding Bursar holds, disciplinary probation, etc). Students who graduate in May 2022, current visiting students, and/or students not currently enrolled (i.e. students on leave of absence) are not eligible. Students who take a leave of absence will cease to be eligible and must vacate summer housing. Note: visiting students and students approved to return from an LOA for Fall 2022 who will be taking a Barnard Summer 2022 class are eligible to apply for Block B summer housing. Students who are not eligible for Barnard summer housing are encouraged to check out the links to alternative summer housing opportunities below. There are a limited number of spaces available, so assignment to summer housing (or to a particular residence hall or room type) is not guaranteed. Priority will be determined by a combination of application date, class year, and whether students are enrolled in a Barnard Summer class, are part of SRI, or are the recipient of a Beyond Barnard Summer Internship Grant. Summer Prices & Dates Visiting Summer Students Visiting students enrolled in a Barnard summer class may apply for Block B summer housing. To apply, log into the Housing Portal and click SUMMER HOUSING (you must activate your Columbia UNI first in order to log into the Portal). Application Deadline: 5pm Wednesday, May 25, 2022 Based on available space, students will be assigned primarily to double rooms (with a roommate) in the 600, 616, and 121st Street residence halls. Students will be emailed their room and roommate assignment by 10pm on Wednesday, June 29, 2022. Closer to July 4, students will be emailed instructions for select a check-in time slot (between 10am-5:45pm) for Monday, July 4 . Dates Cost 10am Monday, July 4 - 5pm Friday, August 12, 2022 $2340 + $143 Summer Health Services Fee = $2483 Barnard Students Standard Summer Rates Period Dates Standard Rates Both Blocks Sunday, May 22 - 5pm Friday, August 12, 2022 $4920 + $285 Summer Health Services Fee = $5205 Block A only Sunday, May 22 - 5pm Friday, July 1, 2022 $2400 + $143 Summer Health Services Fee = $2543 Block B only Monday, July 4 - 5pm Friday, August 12, 2022 $2340 + $143 Summer Health Services Fee = $2483 All students in summer housing will be charged the Summer Health Services fee. Students who wish to use the Dodge Fitness Center at Columbia for the summer may purchase a membership (perec.columbia.edu). For information about available buildings and room types, please see How to Apply below. For information about checking into summer housing (including moving in later than the start date), please see Checking into Summer Housing below. Note: while financial aid may be available for the cost of enrolling in Barnard summer classes, aid is not available for the costs associated with summer housing and/or meal plans. There is an additional charge for May Interim and/or August Interim housing. Subsidized Summer Rate Period Dates Subsidized Rate Both Blocks Sunday, May 22 - 5pm Friday, August 12, 2022 $1715 + $285 Summer Health Services Fee = $2000 Students may be eligible to pay the subsidized rate for Summer Housing if they fit into one of the categories below. Category Additional Approval Required Summer Research Institute (SRI) Will be confirmed by SRI Beyond Barnard Internship Grant (includes Guggenheim, Liman, & Con Edison) Will be confirmed by Beyond Barnard Students working 30+ hours/week* for a Barnard campus office * Students may work multiple Barnard campus jobs that total 30+ hours/week; however, each position that contributes towards the 30+ hours/week total must be eligible. Summer Sponsor Form (PDF) All students in summer housing will be charged the Summer Health Services fee. Students who wish to use the Dodge Fitness Center at Columbia for the summer may purchase a membership (perec.columbia.edu). For information about available buildings and room types, please see How to Apply below. For information about checking into summer housing (including moving in later than the start date), please see Checking into Summer Housing below. Note: while financial aid may be available for the cost of enrolling in Barnard summer classes, aid is not available for the costs associated with summer housing and/or meal plans. There is an additional charge for May Interim and/or August Interim housing. Additional Special Groups Pre-College Program summer staff (PCP) Access Banard summer staff (HEOP) LaidLaw -- Students should submit the "Block A" application and choose "Standard" for the rate (will be paid by the Beyond Barnard office). If you wish to be in housing for the second half of the summer, you should submit the "Both Blocks" application (and you will be respondible for paying the charge for Block B). Students would be responsible for the cost of August Interim should they apply. Athena Advocacy Institute -- Students should submit the "Both Blocks" application and chose "Subsidized" for their rate type (the housing cost will be covered by the Athena Institute for Leadership). Students would be responsible for the cost of May or August Interim should they apply. SP2 -- Students should submit the "Both Blocks" application and chose "Subsidized" for their rate type and SRI as the Sponsor Type (and write in that you're part of the SP2 grant). The housing cost will be covered by the Summer Research Institute. Students would be responsible for the cost of May or August Interim should they apply. Community Impact / Van Amson Fellowship -- Students should submit the "Both Blocks" application and chose "Subsidized" for their rate type (the housing cost will be covered by the Columbia Community Impact office). Students would be responsible for the cost of May or August Interim should they apply. Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO) -- Participants will be considered part of Summer Conference housing and will receive information from LDEO. May Interim May Interim covers the time between the end of Spring Housing and the start of Summer Block A. Pricing, eligibility, and more information for May Interim Housing. August Interim August Interim covers the time between the end of Summer Block B and the start of the Fall Housing. Pricing, eligibility, and more information for August Interim Housing Summer Meal Plans Information about applying for summer meal plans will be posted when available. How to Apply Log into the Barnard Housing Portal and click "Summer Housing" Deadline: 1pm on Tuesday, April 26, 2022 Students will provide ranked room types and building preferences on their application. Rooms will be available at 600, 616, and 121st Street. The number of Single rooms is limited and assignments will be prioritized by class year seniority (see below for information about requesting housing accommodations). Students will be grouped in suites by the Block(s) they apply for. It will not be possible to change the requested Block(s) after the application deadline. Students may create a roommate request group with 1 other student on the application (request groups are limited to 2 students). Both students must be requesting the same Block(s) in order to be considered for placement together. Students will be subject to cancellations fees starting Wednesday, April 27. Disability Housing Accommodations Students who need an accommodation for a diagnosed disability or medical condition should submit a CARDS Summer Housing Accommodation Request no later than 4pm on Friday, April 8, 2022. Note: all summer room assignments will have air-conditioning and access to a kitchen and shared semi-private bathroom*. * PCP and Opportunity Programs Summer Staff will be housed in the Quad, which has shared hallway bathrooms. Assignments & Billing Applicants will be emailed by 5pm on Friday, April 29, to let them know if space is available for them to receive summer housing. Summer bills will be emailed to students on May 2 and are payable to the Bursar's office by June 1, 2022. Summer room assignments will be emailed to students in Block A and Both Blocks by 10pm on Wednesday, May 11, 2022 (and for students in Block B by 10pm on Wednesday, June 29, 2022). Check-In & Check-Out Checking into Summer Housing After receiving their room assignment, students will be able to click TIME SLOT on the Housing Portal to pick a check-in Time Slot. Block A (and Both Blocks) -- 10am-5:45pm on Sunday, May 22, 2022 Block B -- 10am-5:45pm on Monday, July 4, 2022 Students will need to go check-in at the lobby of Barnard Hall during their Time Slot before going to their summer residence hall. Students will be able to move in after checking in and receiving their room keys. Please see below for move-in assistance instructions. Students who wish to move in later than the first date of either Summer Block may do so, but they may only check-in and get their keys when the Res Life office is open (9am – 5pm, Monday – Friday; closed on holidays) and must be checked out of any interim housing by the deadline given. Late check-ins will take place in the Res Life office (110 Sulzberger). Weekend and evening late check-ins will not be available. Note: the Res Life office will be closed on Monday, May 30, for Memorial Day. The cost for Summer Housing will not be prorated as a result of checking in late. Requests to check in early cannot be considered. Checking Out of Summer Housing Students only staying for Summer Block A (but not Block B) must check out by no later than 5pm on Friday, July 1, 2022. Students in housing for the Both Blocks or Block B only must check out by no later than 5pm on Friday, August 12, 2022. When students move out, they must complete the steps below: Completely move out all items from their room/suite/building. Turn in their room keys via a Check-Out Envelope at their residence hall Front Desk. Complete the Confirm Check-Out Form on the Housing Portal. Students who fail to turn in their room keys will be charged a $100 per key replacement fee. The cost for Summer Housing will not be prorated as a result of checking out early. Requests to check out late cannot be considered. Move In/Out Assistance As a reminder, only BC/CU ID holders are currently able to be signed in as guests to the residence halls (guest policy and limits). Students may have one (1) non-affiliate individual helper (ex. a family member) register to provide support moving into or out of the residence halls. The Helper must submit the Residential Move Assistance Form (no earlier than 3 hours before arrival) prior to entering the residence hall with their host, in order to fulfil the Barnard Health Screening process. The student Host must meet their Helper in the lobby for sign-in and is required to remain with the Helper at all times. The Helper must wear a mask at all times over their nose and mouth while indoors, regardless of vaccination status. The Helper will only be allowed in the residence hall of the student they are assisting. Helper sign-in will be permitted daily between 8am-8pm only. Helpers may not stay overnight in the residence halls. Students who have a need for additional move out assistance may submit a request through CARDS@barnard.edu (to request a disability accommodation). Summer Cancellation Fees Summer Cancellation fees will apply starting on Wednesday, April 27, 2022. Note: the Summer Health Services Fee will not be refundable starting the first day of the student's summer assignment. Alternative Summer Housing Options Alternative Options Below are some links to other summer housing options in New York City. Barnard College assumes no responsibility or liability in connection with any rental agreement or services provided by the listed resources. The listing of any resource does not constitute an endorsement of the service or guarantee of availability. Columbia Off-Campus Housing Assistance Office -- look for sublets and/or connect with other students looking for off-campus roommates. Columbia Summer Housing The New School NYU Educational Housing Services NYCIntern.org StudentHousingAssociates.com 1760 Third Ave The Webster Studenthousingworks.com New York Foundation for Senior Citizens Home Sharing Program Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262