Skip to main content Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Open Search Close Barnard College Barnard College Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Deans' Office and Advising Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Nondiscrimination & Title IX Preparedness Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health & Wellness LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Student Services Residential Life & Housing Parent & Family Resources The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Open Search Close Search for: Boldly Barnard Leading the Way Discover the bold, brilliant voices and achievements of Barnard women – from activism to entrepreneurship, making their mark on the world. Back Boldly Barnard The College and its Mission Back The College and Its Mission Facts & Stats Institutional Areas of Focus Organizational Charts Accreditation Knowledge & Action Women Leading the Way The Whole Self New York City Our Partnership with Columbia University A Fearless History College Leadership Back College Leadership President Beilock Senior Staff Board of Trustees Provost Dean of the College Past Leaders of the College The Academic Experience Departments & Majors There are nearly 50 majors at Barnard — in the humanities, social sciences, arts, natural sciences, and many interdisciplinary areas — waiting to be explored. Back The Academic Experience An Education for Tomorrow Back An Education for Tomorrow Learning Digitally Building Strong Voices NYC as a Lab The Barnard Degree Back The Curriculum Departments & Programs Support & Resources Back Help Rooms Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Deans' Office and Advising Back First-Year Class Dean Sophomore Class Dean Junior Class Dean Senior Class Dean Transfer Dean Assistants and Support Staff Choosing Your Courses Special Academic Programs & Experiences Back FLI @ Barnard Back Peer Academic Leader (PAL) Program First-Generation/Low-Income Student Advisory Board Spelman College Exchange Program Double Degree Program with Jewish Theological Seminary Resumed Baccalaureate The Faculty Research & Scholarship Back Research & Scholarship Academic Centers Academic and Arts Programming Back Barnard International Artist Series Forum on Migration The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning Student Research Programs Back Beckman Scholars Scholars of Distinction Science Pathways Scholars Program (SP)² Summer Research Insitute Back About the Summer Research Institute 2022 SRI Program Calendar SRI Eligibility & Requirements Finding a Research Mentor Funding for SRI Past Programs The Lida Orzeck ’68 Poster Session Faculty Research & Opportunities Library Provost & Dean of the Faculty The Columbia Connection Barnard Global Summer Session & Continuing Studies Our Campus & Community Feel Well, Do Well Thriving — in college and in life — requires taking care of every component of your well-being. See how Barnard helps you do wellness your way. Back Our Campus & Community Student Organizations The Neighborhood Athletics CARES - Community Safety Back CARES - Community Safety CARES Department Staff Response Team Community Safety Back Access to Campus Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Blue Light Locations Campus Alert System Crime Alerts Transportation Services Lost and Found Safety Tips Nondiscrimination & Title IX Back Respond Inform Support Empower Preparedness Back Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Community Safety Advisory Council On Campus Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Back DEI Cabinet DEI Mission Strategic Priorities Institutional Commitments Access Barnard Trans@Barnard DEI Partners Council on DEI Health & Wellness Back Primary Care Health Service Furman Counseling Center Denise LeFrak Foundation Alcohol and Substance Awareness Program Well-Woman Health Promotion Program Being Barnard Violence Prevention Program LeFrak Center for Well-Being Sustainability and Climate Action Back Circular Campus Student Opportunities Environmental Justice Climate Action Vision Academics Finance & Governance Campus Culture & Operations Events Rheaply @ Barnard Back Rheaply FAQ Barnard Sustainability Student Leadership Contact Us Student Services Back Center for Accessibility Resources & Disability Services BCIT Student Computing International Student Services Back Dean for International Students New Full-Degree International Students Current Full-Degree International Students International Student Services Staff Administrative Internationalization Group Visiting International Students Programs Frequently Asked Questions International Students Opportunity Programs Back Meet the Staff CSTEP HEOP Student Experience & Engagement Students' Roles and Responsibilities Back The Honor Code Student Code of Conduct Leaves of Absence and Returns Back Frequently Asked Questions Types of Leaves of Absence Returning from a Leave of Absence Residential Life & Housing Back New Students Back NEW STUDENTS (up level ▲) Why Live in Campus Housing? Applications & Assignments Roommates What to Bring (and What to Leave at Home) Important Dates Housing Options Back HOUSING OPTIONS (up level ▲) Quad Residence Halls Off-Quad Residence Halls Housing Exchange Back HOUSING EXCHANGE (up level ▲) Barnard Students Living at Columbia Columbia Students Living at Barnard Off-Campus Housing Virtual Tour & Floor Plans Residence Hall Handbook Back HANDBOOK (up level ▲) Housing Contract Back HOUSING CONTRACT (up level ▲) 2021-2022 Housing Contract 2020-2021 Housing Contract Forms Programs Services Back SERVICES (up level ▲) Repairs Cable TV Exterminators Heating and Cooling Internet Access & Computer Labs Keys & Lock Changes Laundry Mail and Packages Music Practice Rooms Storage Policies Back POLICIES (up level ▲) Community Policies Housing Policies Guest Policies Procedures Back PROCEDURES (up level ▲) Apply for Housing Moving In Moving Out Disability Housing Accommodations Room Changes Room Selection Winter Break Summer Housing Campus Safety & Emergency Response Fire Safety Important Dates Employment Opportunities Back EMPLOYMENT (up level ▲) Resident Assistants Hall Directors Office Assistants About the Department Back ABOUT RES LIFE (up level ▲) Welcome to Campus Living Mission & Goals Partnership Statement Staff Directory Organizational Chart Contact Information Parent & Family Resources Back Parent Frequently Asked Questions The Toddler Center Beyond Barnard Your Path. Your Purpose. Beyond Barnard builds a bridge — helping students and alumnae define, pursue, and achieve success in their careers and their communities. Back Beyond Barnard Prepare for Your Future Back Prepare for Your Future Beyond Barnard Advising & Programs Beyond Barnard Goes Virtual Internships, Student Jobs, Experiences Graduate & Professional School Competitive Fellowships Back Competitive Fellowships 4+1 Pathways A Lifelong Network Alumnae Stories Employers & Partners Data & Outcomes Admissions & Aid Applying to Barnard Get all of the details on applying to Barnard, including virtual tours, test policies, interviews and how the process works. Back Admissions & Aid Visit Opportunities Back Visit Us Virtually Around Our Campus Visit Our Campus Open House Events How to Apply Back How to Apply First-Year Applicants Back The Application Process Request a Virtual Interview Special Programs for First-Year Applicants Double Degree Program with the Jewish Theological Seminary Homeschooled Applicants Undocumented and DACA Applicants QuestBridge Transfer Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Temporary Test-Optional Policy Transgender Policy Commitment to Access Back Barnard Bound Contact Us Back Contact Us Meet the Admissions Team Back Jennifer Fondiller Christina Lopez Ruby Bhattacharya Nicole Molina Karen McCleary Grace Bradley Danielle Schiestle Hannah Graham Virginia Hart Tiffany Thimba Cassandra Clifford Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Estimate Your Eligibility Applying for Financial Aid Understanding Your Aid Contact Us Apply To Pre-College Programs Info For Faculty Students Staff Alumnae Parents Offices and Services News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Barnard Magazine Media Relations Community Messages Give to Barnard COVID-19 Information Séverine Autesserre Professor & Chair of Political Science Department Africana Studies, Human Rights, Political Science Office Milstein 1101 Contact 212.854.4877 sa435@columbia.edu CV CV Severine Autesserre January 2022 International Relations Séverine Autesserre is a Professor of Political Science, specializing in international relations and African studies, at Barnard College, Columbia University. She works on civil wars, peacebuilding, peacekeeping, and humanitarian aid, and she chairs the political science department. Professor Autesserre's latest book, The Frontlines of Peace: The Insider’s Guide to Changing the World, examines what works in building peace after mass violence. It draws on fieldwork in twelve different conflict zones, including Colombia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Somaliland, and has just been released by Oxford University Press. Her 2014 article in International Peacekeeping develops some of the early ideas for this project. Her 2017 article in the International Studies Review, my Op-Eds in the Washington Post (here and here and here), and her Foreign Affairs pieces (here and here and here) present her preliminary findings. Research for this project has been funded by the Carnegie Corporation, the Gerda Henkel Foundation, and the Folke Bernadotte Academy. Her previous project focused on the everyday elements that influence peacebuilding interventions on the ground. It included extensive fieldwork in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo and briefer comparative research in Burundi, Cyprus, Israel and the Palestinian Territories, South Sudan, and Timor-Leste. The book based on this research, Peaceland: Conflict Resolution and the Everyday Politics of International Intervention, was released by Cambridge University Press in 2014. It won the 2016 Best Book of the Year Award and the 2015 Yale H. Ferguson Award from the International Studies Association as well as honorable mentions for two other book prizes (the 2015 Chadwick Alger Prize from the International Studies Association and the 2014 African Argument Book of the Year). Findings from this project have also appeared in Critique Internationale and African Affairs (the latter piece won the 2012 Best Article award from the African Politics Conference Group). Her earlier research project focused on local violence and international intervention in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo, where Dr. Autesserre has travelled regularly since 2001. Her fieldwork and analysis culminated in The Trouble with the Congo: Local Violence and the Failure of International Peacebuilding, published by Cambridge University Press in 2010. The book won the 2012 Grawemeyer Award for Ideas Improving World Order and the 2011 Chadwick Alger Prize presented by the International Studies Association to the best book on international organizations and multilateralism. Research for this project has also appeared in Foreign Affairs, International Organization, the Review of African Political Economy, the African Studies Review, the African Security Review, International Peacekeeping, the Revista de Relaciones Internationales, and the Journal of Humanitarian Affairs. It is the topic of a recent TED Talk that has more than 750,000 views. In 2021, Professor Autesserre was named a Knight of the Order of Academic Palms (Chevalier dans l’Ordre des Palmes Académiques) by the French Government—a historical knighthood for French academic, cultural, and educational figures. That same year, Autesserre was awarded the Victor Sidel and Barry Levy Award for Peace from the American Public Health Association in recognition of her contributions to preventing war and promoting international peace Her work has also won numerous other prizes and fellowships, including the Emerging Scholar Award from the International Studies Association’s International Security Studies Section (2021), the Special Prize of the Jury from the French Red Cross Fund (2017), two research awards from the United States Institute of Peace (2004-2005 and 2010-2012), two Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation research grants (2010 and 2011), two Presidential Research Awards from Barnard College (2010 and 2021), several grants from Columbia University (2010 – 2013), two Mellon Fellowships in Security and Humanitarian Action (2004-2006), the 2006 Best Graduate Student Paper award from the African Studies Association, and a Fulbright Fellowship (1999-2000). Professor Autesserre teaches undergraduate classes such as "Civil Wars and International Interventions in Africa," "Building Peace," and "Aid, Violence, and Politics in Africa." She also regularly offers two SIPA courses ("Civil Wars and Peace Settlements" and "Peacebuilding After Mass Violence") and a doctoral seminar entitled "Debates on International Peace Interventions." In 2021, Autesserre received the Emily Gregory Award, Barnard College's only student-nominated award for excellence in teaching Before becoming an academic, Dr. Autesserre worked for humanitarian organizations (including Doctors Without Borders and Doctors of the World) and development agencies in Afghanistan, Kosovo, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Nicaragua, and India. She holds a post-doctorate from Yale University (2007), a Ph.D. in political science from New York University (2006), and master’s degrees in international relations and political science from Columbia University (2000) and Sciences Po (France, 1999). Education Ph.D., New York University M.A., Columbia University M.A., Sciences-Po, France B.A., Sorbonne University, France Academic Focus Peacekeeping and peacebuilding Democratic Republic of Congo International relations Politics of humanitarian and development aid Courses POLS BC 3765 Faculty-Student Research POLS BC 3810 Colloquium on Building Peace (Cross-listed by the Human Rights Programs) POLS V 3604 Civil Wars and International Interventions in Africa (Cross-listed by the Africana Studies Program, the Human Rights Program, and the Race & Ethnic Studies Program) POLS BC 3761 Senior Research Seminar in International Relations POLS BC 3810 Colloquium on Aid, Politics and Violence in Africa (Cross-listed by the Africana Studies and the Human Rights Programs) POLS G 8823 Debates on International Peace Interventions (Graduate-level seminar at Columbia University) INAF U8869 Civil Wars & Peace Settlements (Graduate-level seminar at SIPA) INAF U6549 Peacebuilding After Mass Violence (Graduate-level seminar at SIPA) Awards & Honors 2021 Victor Sidel and Barry Levy Award for Peace, American Public Health Association 2021 Emily Gregory Award, Barnard College (for excellence in teaching) Knight of the Order of Academic Palm (Chevalière dans l'Ordre des Palmes Académiques), French state decoration, 2021 2020 Emerging Scholar Award, International Studies Association’s International Security Studies Section 2017 Prix Special du Jury (Special Prize of the Jury), Fonds Croix-Rouge (French Red Cross Fund), awarded to "an original trajectory and the quality of the research" 2016 International Studies Association's Best Book of the Year Award (for book “Peaceland”) 2015 International Studies Association's Yale H. Ferguson Award (for book “Peaceland”) 2015 Honorable mention, International Studies Association’s Chadwick Alger Award for best book on international organizations and multilateralism (for book “Peaceland”) 2014 Honorable mention, African Arguments’ Best Book of the Year (for book “Peaceland”) 2013 African Politics Conference Group’s Best Article Award (for article “Dangerous Tales”) 2012 Grawemeyer Award for Ideas Improving World Order (for book “The Trouble with the Congo”) 2011 International Studies Association’s Chadwick Alger Award for best book on international organizations and multilateralism (for book “The Trouble with the Congo”) 2006 Graduate Student Paper Prize Award, African Studies Association (for article “Local Violence, National Peace”) Publications Books The Frontlines of Peace: An Insider's Guide to Changing the World. New York: Oxford University Press, 2021. https://severineautesserre.com/sa_book/the-frontlines-of-peace/ Peaceland: Conflict Resolution and the Everyday Politics of International Intervention. Problems of International Politics series. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2014. https://severineautesserre.com/sa_book/peaceland/ The Trouble With the Congo: Local Violence and the Failure of International Peacebuilding. Cambridge Studies in International Relations series. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2010. https://severineautesserre.com/sa_book/the-trouble-with-the-congo/ Articles in refereed journals “International Peacebuilding and Local Success: Assumptions and Effectiveness,” International Studies Review 19 (1), pp. 114-132, 2017. https://academic.oup.com//isr/article/19/1/114/2980418/International-Pea... “The Responsibility to Protect in Congo: The Failure of Grassroots Prevention,” International Peacekeeping 23 (1), pp., 29-51, 2016. http://www.severineautesserre.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/IPArtCongo.pdf. (Reprinted in Brett O’Bannon. Reassessing the Responsibility to Protect: Conceptual and Operational Challenges, New York: Routledge, pp. 93-113, 2016) “Going Micro: Emerging and Future Peacekeeping Research,” International Peacekeeping 21 (4), pp. 492-500, Fall 2014. http://academiccommons.columbia.edu/catalog/ac:187716 “Dangerous Tales - Dominant Narratives on the Congo and their Unintended Consequences,” African Affairs, 111 (443), pp. 202-222, Spring 2012. http://academiccommons.columbia.edu/catalog/ac:187713 “Construire la Paix : Conceptions Collectives de son Etablissement, de son Maintien et de sa Consolidation,” Critique Internationale, 51, pp. 153-167, 2011. http://www.cairn.info/article.php?ID_ARTICLE=CRII_051_0153&DocId=69046&h.... Translated by N. Ragaru (Original English version: “Constructing Peace: Collective Understandings of Peace, Peacemaking, Peacekeeping, and Peacebuilding,” http://www.ceri-sciences-po.org/publica/critique/51/art_sa.pdf) “Hobbes and the Congo – Frames, Local Violence, and International Intervention in the Congo,” International Organization, 63, pp. 249-280, 2009. http://www.severineautesserre.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/04/IOSev.pdf. (Reprinted in Erica Chenoweth (ed.), Political Violence, Sage Library of International Relations, Sage Publications, 2014 / Spanish translation “Hobbes y el Congo: Marcos, Violencia Local e Intervención Internacional,” Revista de Relaciones Internationales, 16, pp. 97-134, 2011. http://www.severineautesserre.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/04/IOspa.pdf) “D.R. Congo: Explaining Peace Building Failures, 2003 – 2006,” Review of African Political Economy, 113 (34), pp. 423-442, 2007. http://www.severineautesserre.com/wp-content/uploads/2007/04/SevRoape.pdf “Local violence, National Peace? Post-War ‘Settlement’ in the Eastern D.R. Congo,” African Studies Review, 49 (3), pp. 1-29, 2006. http://academiccommons.columbia.edu/item/ac:145072 Other publications in refereed journals “The Trouble With the Congo: A Precis,” Book Symposium on “The Trouble With the Congo,” African Security Review, 20(2), pp. 56-65, 2011. http://www.severineautesserre.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/04/PrecisASR.pdf “Seven Commentaries, Three Debates and One Book: the Author's Response,” Book Symposium on “The Trouble With the Congo,” African Security Review, 20(2), pp. 114-124, 2011. http://www.severineautesserre.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/04/ResponseASR... Book chapters “Paternalism and Peacebuilding: Capacity, Knowledge, and Resistance in International Interventions” in Barnett, Michael (ed.), Paternalism Beyond Borders, Cambridge University Press (accepted for publication, forthcoming 2017) “Penser les Conflits Locaux: L’Echec de l’Intervention Internationale au Congo” (Understanding Local Conflicts: the Failure of the International Intervention in the Congo), L’Afrique des Grands Lacs : Annuaire 2007-2008, Paris: L’Harmattan, pp. 179-196, 2008. http://academiccommons.columbia.edu/item/ac:145134 Policy articles "The Crisis of Peacekeeping - Why the UN Can't End Wars," Foreign Affairs, 98 (1), pp. 101-116, January/February 2019 "War and Peacekeeping" (debate with Peter Yeo), Foreign Affairs, 98 (3), pp. 218-219, April/May 2019 Spanish translation: "La Crisis del Mantenimiento de la Paz," Foreign Affairs LatinoAmérica, 19 (3), July/September 2019 “The Right Way to Build Peace in Congo,” Foreign Affairs (online), April 2017, https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/democratic-republic-congo/2017-0... “What the Uproar Over Congo’s Elections Misses,” Foreign Affairs (online), March 2017, https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/2017-03-01/what-uproar-over-cong... “Trouble in Peaceland,” Foreign Policy, Peace Channel (online), October 2015. http://foreignpolicy.com/2015/10/06/trouble-in-peaceland-united-nations-... “Local Knowledge and Peacebuilding,” in What Needs to Change in UN Peace Operations: An Expert Briefing Book Prepared for the High-Level Independent Panel on Peace Operations, Center on International Cooperation and International Peace Institute, November 2014. http://futurepeaceops.org/2016/02/15/local-knowledge-and-peacebuilding/ “Local Violence and the Failure of International Peacebuilding: The Trouble with the Congo,” Memo distributed at the World Summit of Nobel Peace Prize Laureates, Warsaw, Poland, October 2013 “Peacetime Violence - Post-Conflict Violence and Peace-Building Strategies.” Program on States and Security, 2009. http://conflictfieldresearch.colgate.edu/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/Aute... “The Trouble with Congo - How Local Disputes Fuel Regional Violence,” Foreign Affairs, 87 (3), pp. 94-110, May/June 2008. http://academiccommons.columbia.edu/catalog/ac:173078 “Kongo’da siddet ve ölüm kültürü” (Violence and the Culture of Death in the Congo), Birikim (Turkey), 174, pp. 88-96, 2003. Translated by K. Caliskan. http://www.severineautesserre.com/wp-content/uploads/2003/10/Birikim-Art... “The United States’ ‘Humanitarian Diplomacy’ in South Sudan,” Journal of Humanitarian Assistance, January 2002. http://academiccommons.columbia.edu/catalog/ac:173075 Prof. Séverine Autesserre on Peacekeeping December 28, 2021 CGTN America Prof. Séverine Autesserre on How Peace is Built November 30, 2021 DevPolicy Blog Professor Séverine Autesserre Awarded the American Public Health Association’s Victor Sidel and Barry Levy Award for Peace October 8, 2021 Prof. Séverine Autesserre Discusses Her New Book, "The Frontlines of Peace" September 27, 2021 Diplomatic Courier Professor Séverine Autesserre To Be Named the 2021 Emily Gregory Award Winner September 8, 2021 Professor Autesserre Provides an Insider's Guide to Building Lasting Peace July 20, 2021 PeaceMindedly Load More Site Footer Footer About the College Back Offices & Services Back Communications Back Contacts Email Signatures Copyright and Image Use Design and Production Digital Signs Faculty Working with the Media Media Relations Social Media Guidelines Templates Writing/Messaging Purchasing Back Citizens Bank MasterCard Purchasing Procedures & Forms Ombuds Office Back About the Ombuds Finance & Operations Mail Services Back Addressing Incoming Mail Breaks, Leaves & Graduation Incoming Mail Local Mail Outgoing Mail Outgoing Mail Privacy Policy Prohibited Items Receiving Your Mail and Packages Printing at Barnard Human Resources Back About HR Benefits Compensation Employment Opportunities at Barnard Employment Diversity and Inclusion Policies News and Announcements Accounts Payable Bursar Back Tuition & Fees Policies Understanding your Bill Payment Options Tuition Refunds Perkins Loan Information 1098-T Tax Credits Tuition-related forms Facilities Back Service Information Job Opportunities Visit Back Directions Campus Map Local Resources Back Parking Restaurants Accommodations Diversity & Inclusion Nondiscrimination & Title IX Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University | 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | 212.854.5262