Christopher B. Barrett Stephen B. & Janice G. Ashley Professor of Applied Economics and Management International Professor of Agriculture Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Professor, Department of Global Development Professor, Department of Economics Faculty Fellow Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability Cornell University Research Meet my research group and see our current projects, including working papers, published articles, and books. Research Overview Outreach Learn more about my outreach work and find past presentations. Outreach Overview Teaching Read about the courses I teach in applied economics and management for graduate and undergraduate students. Teaching Overview Food Policy Along with Mario Mazzochi, I serve as Co-Editor-in-Chief of Food Policy More Information » Seeking Book Proposals I edit the Palgrave Macmillan Series on Agricultural Economics and Food Policy. We are seeking strong new monographs and welcome unsolicited proposals. View details » Features Research Group Read a blog developed by graduate students and staff in my research group. About For a short overview of my work and perspective, please see the Cornell page on Our Business Is A Better World. . Media Listen to my appearances on NPR On Point or NPR All Things Considered, watch my appearance on The Daily Show with Jon Stewart and testifying before the US House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee and US Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Watch a video on the work done by Cornellians to reduce poverty around the world, Cornell and Global Poverty Reduction. Mentoring Young African Economists Structural Transformation of African Agriculture and Rural Spaces (STAARS) STAARS is a collaborative venture between the African Development Bank (AFDB), CGIAR Research Program on Policies Institutions and Markets (PIM), African Economic Research Consortium (AERC), Partnership for Economic Policy (PEP), World Bank, and Cornell University. Go to home page Cornell Atkinson - Nature Sustainabiltiy Expert Panel The 2020 expert panel convened by the journal Nature Sustainability was sponsored by the Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability. The report was released December 10, 2020. You can read the report, and the various panel papers, in Nature Sustainability, The Lancet Planetary Health, etc. and about the panel on the Atkinson Center site at atkinson.cornell.edu/naturesustreport. Office Hours Wednesdays, 10:00AM-12:00 PM, from Aug. 25-Nov. 17 By appointment. Please email me to arrange. Location: 340D Warren Hall Contact Email: cbb2@cornell.edu Campus office phone: (607) 255-4489 Fax: (607) 255-9984 CGIAR Independent Science for Development Council The CGIAR ISDC is an external, multidisciplinary panel of scientific experts that provides rigorous, independent strategic advice to the CGIAR, in particular its governing System Council. Most recently, I have led ISDC’s work on foresight and tradeoffs analysis.