Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Baptist and Christian Character of Baylor About the Book Editors' Notes Contributors Comments and Review Mark Schwehn J. Clifton Williams W. Winfred Moore Susie Jaynes Randall O'Brien William M. Pinson, Jr Leah Witcher Jackson Anne-Marie Bowery Dr. Eugene W. Baker William F. Cooper George A. Mason, Pastor Table of Contents Contact Us Order Online The Baptist and Christian Character of Baylor What does it mean to be a Christian university in the Baptist tradition? The inherited definition of Baylor as a Christian university was based on the atmospheric model, a view of the Christian university defined largely by its student life, placing emphasis on a highly moral and religious kind of campus culture as its major ingredient. A common way of expressing Baylor's purpose, under this model, was to say that Baylor offered an excellent education in a Christian environment. Explore Editors' Note This book is the culmination of an initiative undertaken by the Council of Deans of Baylor University. Under the leadership of Bradley J. B. Toben, Dean of the Law School at Baylor, the Council of Deans sponsored a two-day, university-wide colloquy on April 10-11, 2003, entitled, "The Baptist and Christian Character of Baylor." All the speakers and respondents for the colloquy were assured that the colloquy was to be of such quality that every paper would merit publication in a volume to be published after the conference. Read Editors' Note About the Book Back Editors' Notes Contributors Comments and Review Back Mark Schwehn J. Clifton Williams W. Winfred Moore Susie Jaynes Randall O'Brien William M. Pinson, Jr Leah Witcher Jackson Anne-Marie Bowery Dr. Eugene W. Baker William F. Cooper George A. Mason, Pastor Table of Contents Contact Us Order Online General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678