Skip to Content Syracuse University | Burton Blatt Institute Open Close primary navigation Home About BBIExpand Collapse section Who Was Burton Blatt? The BBI Story Innovation Areas Collaborations and Partnerships Opportunities International Programs Student Engagement & Alumni TeamExpand Collapse section Leadership Team/Senior Management Southeast ADA Center Research, Technical Assistance,Training & Outreach Administrative Staff/ Information Technology BBI Fellows & Affiliated Researchers Board Members Appellate Brief Legal Training Project Interns & Work Study Research Assistants Research & Publications Projects News Contact Us Search for: Search Search People Search Insight Innovation Impact Advancing the civic, economic, and social participation of people with disabilities. Honoring Three Decades of the ADA. Featured Pages Who Was Burton Blatt? About BBI Disability Inclusive Employment Policy Rehabilitation Research and Training Centers Southeast ADA Center Office of Interdisciplinary Programs and Outreach Research & Publications Make a Gift Help BBI Change the World Previous slide Next slide News & Headlines New ADA Live podcast! Episode 105: Let’s Fly Away – Air Travel for Passengers with Disabilities May 4, 2022 Air travel is often essential for employment, integral for recreation pursuits and vital for social and family connections. But, air travel can be challenging and full of anxiety for the 27 million travelers with disabilities and the 3.3 million passengers who use a wheelchair or other medical device for mobility. In this episode of ADA… New Disability Rights Today! The ADA Three Decades Later: How Are We Doing? April 13, 2022 Description Thirty-two (32) years after the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), the ADA is still treated as an afterthought, rather than a powerful civil rights law. Please join us for this important discussion about how ADA compliance has progressed over the years and where gaps remain in realizing the ideals and intent… New ADA Live podcast! Episode 104: Employment, ADA, and Post-COVID Health April 6, 2022 As we enter the third year of the pandemic, COVID-19 continues to have a significant impact on the economy and the workforce. Some employees have developed post-COVID health conditions, or long COVID. And these post-COVID health conditions could impact one or more major life areas that may trigger protections for employees under Title I of… Read More News Advancing the civic, economic, and social participation of people with disabilities | 950 Irving Avenue Dineen Hall, Suite 446 Syracuse, New York 13244-2130 | (315) 443-2863 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy