Skip to content Search Baylor Business Review | Spring 2022 Issue Home About Submit Alumni News Archives Masthead Spring 2022 Dean’s Message Sandeep Mazumder discusses the Business School’s prime positioning to make lasting change across the globe. Continue Reading Dean’s Message Breaking the Business of Human Trafficking Research conducted by a HSB professor and alumna looks to assist in the battle to end human trafficking. Continue Reading Breaking the Business of Human Trafficking Sharing Knowledge Sue Johnson utilizes years of business experience and knowledge to help young people reach financial security. Continue Reading Sharing Knowledge Lending a Hand Fernando Arroyo believes in being the hand up—not a handout—that makes a positive difference in the world. Continue Reading Lending a Hand True Solutions Scott Smith maintains a strong belief that leadership requires focus, support and courage without compromise. Continue Reading True Solutions A Servant Heart Jinhaeng Lee understands the importance of community and service, seeing both as his Christian duty. Continue Reading A Servant Heart A Rally With Impact Vida Mulec Brett knows all about serving—whether on the tennis court or helping others through her work. Continue Reading A Rally With Impact The Dual Move The dual master’s degree program in social work and business turns graduates into a rare double threat. Continue Reading The Dual Move Perceived Discrimination, Real Stress Kaylee Hackney reflects on personal experience to study the impact of stress from perceived pregnancy discrimination. Continue Reading Perceived Discrimination, Real Stress The Unspoken Role of Time in Entrepreneurship Matt Wood investigates the role time plays in innovators meeting the flow of consumer desires or needs. Continue Reading The Unspoken Role of Time in Entrepreneurship A (Not So) Textbook Case Dean Sandeep Mazumder co-authors a more practical economics textbook to bridge industry and academics. Continue Reading A (Not So) Textbook Case The Power of Power Distance Belief Lingjiang Lora Tu and JaeHwan Kwon study the reach of educational messaging and its impact on the audience. Continue Reading The Power of Power Distance Belief Let it Shine Hankamer School of Business students personify Baylor’s mission during trips to Uganda and Zambia. Continue Reading Let it Shine The Untapped “Data Mine” The Undergraduate Research Assistant Program draws upon a vast wealth of previously underused research help. Continue Reading The Untapped “Data Mine” Filling the Funnel Baylor students, faculty and staff lived out Isaiah 58:10 by packing 50,000 meals for the McLennan County community. Continue Reading Filling the Funnel Setting a Good Foundation Jiaju Justin Yan and Russell Browder elevated Baylor Entrepreneurship on a global scale through their dissertations. Continue Reading Setting a Good Foundation Alumni News Keep up with HSB graduates through the decades. Continue Reading Alumni News In the News Read about research that HSB faculty are conducting and the impacts felt in the local community and beyond. Continue Reading In the News Baylor Business Buzz Learn about all that is happening at Hankamer. Continue Reading Baylor Business Buzz Contact Information Continue Reading Contact Information Copyright © 2022 · Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures.