Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links MLK Memorial Committee Menu Main Nav Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Committee Scholarship Application Back Back Close About Martin Luther King, Jr. Scholarship Overview Scholarship Application Grants and Fellowships Scholarship Application Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Our Mission is to educate the Boston College Community about Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s dream of social justice and equality. The Committee continues to work toward that goal by sponsoring programs intended to help the Boston College community eradicate racism of all kinds through working toward understanding, appreciating, and celebrating its cultural diversity. In addition, the Committee strives to honor Dr. King's memory by recognizing and encouraging the development of future leadership at Boston College through a scholarship in his name. Position Statement In the events of recent days and months where mental health, weapons, and loss of massive proportion have affected our lives, we ask each of you to support positions of non-violence at the individual, family, group, and community level. Read Statement This portrait of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., was completed by Dr. Rosanna DeMarco (Associate Professor, CSON) when she took her first oil painting portrait class with Edwina Caci of the Quincy Art Association in 2009. Dr. DeMarco donated the painting to the MLK Jr. Committee in 2010 for display at the scholarship ceremonies. A photo of this image is given to each MLK Jr. Scholarship finalist each year since that time. News and Notes MLK Jr. Memorial Committee Back To Top Back To Top Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Committee 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Martin Luther King, Jr. Scholarship Grants and Fellowships Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College