Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Black Community Services Center Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About Get Involved Connect with Black Volunteer Student Organizations Ernest Houston Johnson Scholars Program Course Description Ernest Houston Johnson Bio Info for Members Stanford Diversity Exchange The Black Pages Email Listserv Programs Academic/Intellectual Alumni Engagement Community Building Leadership Development Mental Health & Wellbeing Reservations Events People Donate Admit Weekend 2021 Admit Weekend Team Main content start Greetings Everyone! With Black Liberation Month fast approaching, the Black Community Services Center (BCSC) is curating a calendar of events for February. This year's theme is Black Entrepreneurship #BuyBlack. Above, you may have noticed this year’s logo, created by Zoe Lynch c/0 2025. Congrats to her for winning this year’s logo competition! Black Liberation Month will not be a thing without the amazing programs and events you are currently working on. Please be sure to add your events to the community calendar! This year we are asking the community to err on the side of safety by providing fully virtual or safe hybrid events. We understand projections may change as we inch closer to and through February, but we are not out of harm's way in this pandemic. BLM2021 was fully virtual, and it was a good time– we can do it again! Also, we are trying something different this year, the Black Liberation Month Calendar will be formless! Please follow these instructions for submitting your event/programming to the calendar: Create a calendar invite in a Google Calendar/Microsoft Outlook/ Apple iCal compatible application and invite bcscgeneral@gmail.com to it. Check the event time, including the time zone. Fill out the venue or Zoom link properly such that anyone can find the event. Include a statement in your event description with your who (is hosting/sponsoring– write out your acronyms) what (is the purpose of the event) why (are you excited for the event) and alternatives (if things change, what is the backup plan). We cannot wait to see all of the amazing events your organization, department, and/or group are hosting! Please submit your events no less than a week before it is set to take place. Multiple submissions are allowed. On behalf of the Black Community Services Center, we want to thank you all for your hard work, event planning, and organizing. We deeply appreciate you all and look forward to an amazing Black Liberation Month! If you have any questions, comments, or concerns, please do not hesitate to email Tamilore Awosile (BCSC Community Building Lead) at Tawosile@stanford.edu or Dom Johnson (BSCS Associate Director) at domjohnson@stanford.edu or stanfordbcsc@stanford.edu. In the meantime, please keep yourself and each other as safe as possible. Check out a few events already being planned: BCSC: Digital Get Down: Black Power Edition Feb 4th, 12pm-1pm Road to Roses: John Ralston and Black Football Players at Stanford Stanford Historical Society February 16th, 4:30pm, 6:00pm (RSVP here) BCSC: Health is Wealth is Joy: Black Pop-up Shop Feb 27th, 11am-3pm AAAS: Black American Refugee: Escaping the Narcissism of the American Dream February 28th, 10:30am-11:30am Lastly, the Center will remain closed to the public for the next couple of weeks. But you can reach out to Dr.Roz (rconerly@stanford.edu) or Dom for an appointment, in the meantime. In Community, BCSC Staff Black House Statement of Support Following the senseless murder of George Floyd (and the nameless others whose liveshave been lost due to the nonstop police brutality in this country), the Black Community Services Center has released a Statement of Support Mission: The Black Community Services Center embodies inclusive excellence through partnering with and educating the Stanford community about the contributions of the African Diaspora, while ensuring that students can thrive and reach their full potential Our 5 core pillars: Academic / Intellectual Community Building Alumni Engagement Leadership Development Mental Health & Wellbeing Welcome Class of 2025! Admit Weekend Team Upcoming Events Connect with Us Stanford Black Community Services Center Web Login Address 418 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States Visit Campus Map Contact Us Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Helpful Links Get emergency assistance or find help View the Stanford non-discrimination policy Student Affairs supports accessibility Report a website problem The Black Community Services Center is part of the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership (ECL) and proud to be part of Student Affairs, which educates students to make meaningful contributions as citizens of a complex world. Make a Gift Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top