Skip to content University of illinois Urbana-Champaign Resources for Beckman faculty and staff Directory Resources for campus illinois.edu Beckman Institute Menu Back to Menu Research navigation closed Research landing page The Beckman Institute is a unique engine for research. We're making incredible advances while helping ordinary people. Integrative Imaging research theme Intelligent Systems research theme Molecular Science and Engineering research theme Join a research study Conduct research at Beckman Beckman fellowships and awards Core research facilities Research images Back to Menu Visit navigation closed Visit landing page We offer a cafe with drinks and daily specials, events from yoga to research lectures, and plenty of study and meeting spaces. Events at Beckman Explore Beckman Reserve space at Beckman Café menu & hours Parking and travel Back to Menu About navigation closed About landing page The Beckman Institute brings researchers from many disciplines together to collaborate. The result: scientific advances that couldn’t occur any other way. News Videos Resources for campus Give to Beckman Job opportunities History of the Beckman Institute Mission and core values Resources for Beckman faculty and staff Annual report Back to Menu Contact navigation closed Contact landing page Directory Organizational structure Media contacts Home image/svg+xml The Beckman Institute is a barrier-busting, interdisciplinary research facility and community of innovation. The Beckman Institute is a barrier-busting, collaborative research facility and community of innovation. We Break Barriers. The Beckman Institute was created to support interdisciplinary research among University of Illinois faculty. We foster scientific advances that couldn’t be done in any other way. Learn more about the Beckman Institute Our founder, Arnold Beckman, was an inventor and philanthropist who knew firsthand the power of interdisciplinary work. The Beckman Institute is a barrier-busting, collaborative research facility and community of innovation. We Propel Science and Technology. The Beckman Institute is a unique engine for research. We're making incredible advances while helping ordinary people. Explore our research Beckman researchers have developed a new polymer-curing process that could reduce the cost, time, and energy needed. The Beckman Institute is a barrier-busting, collaborative research facility and community of innovation. We Help You Connect. We offer a café with drinks and daily specials, events from concerts to research lectures, and plenty of study and meeting spaces. Visit the Beckman Institute The Beckman Institute was built to help people connect. Learn more about exploring Beckman. Latest news News New ultrasound tool measures blood flow, images microvasculature in the brain May 31, 2022 by Evan Anderson Researchers at the Beckman Institute developed a technique for producing super-resolution ultrasound images of tissue microvasculature in just a... Full story News Geiger addresses rural urban disparity May 31, 2022 by Illinois College of Applied Health Sciences After receiving a grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Sarah Geiger, an assistant professor of kinesiology and community... Full story News Fisher provides insight on doomscrolling and mental health May 31, 2022 by Insider Full story News Cancer and a high fat diet: What's the link? May 31, 2022 by Medical News Today Full story News Jefferson Chan discusses the relationship between high-fat diet, nitric oxide, and cancer development May 25, 2022 by Super Human Radio Full story News Cross-continental Beckman collaborator elected to EASA May 24, 2022 by Samantha Jones Toal Martin Ostoja-Starzewski, an affiliate faculty member at the Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology and a professor of mechanical... Full story Upcoming events June 1 12:00 PM Yoga at Beckman 5269 Beckman Institute (fifth-floor tower room) Contact name: Elena Romanova Contact email: romanova@illinois.edu Join us at noon on Wednesdays this summer for restorative yoga with a view! All sessions are free and will be held in Beckman's fifth-floor tower room. Class will not be held on June 8 and July 27. All are welcome; bring your own mat! Contact Elena Romanova with questions . Read more June 2 10:00 AM – 10:30 AM Gather in the Garden Beckman garden, west of the building through the cafe's double doors Contact name: Stacy Olson Contact email: srolson@illinois.edu Contact phone: 217-244-8373 Join Director Jeff Moore and your colleagues this summer for informal conversation and coffee in the Beckman garden, which is west of the building through the café’s double doors. This Gather in the Garden Series will be from 10-10:30 a.m. every Tuesday and Thursday throughout June, July, and August. Read more June 6 3:00 PM Theoretical & Computational Biophysics Group Seminar Contact name: Emad Tajkhorshid Contact email: emad@illinois.edu Title: "Local Electrostatic Properties of Lipid Bilayers,Lipid-Protein Systems, and Bio-Nano Hybrid Materials by Spin Labeling EPR." Speaker: Tatyana Smirnova, Department of Chemistry, North Carolina State University Rational design of new bio-nano hybrid systems incorporating cellular membranes calls for understanding and accounting for the influence of nano support and nano confinement on the structure and properties of lipid bilayers, lipid-solid, and lipid-protein interfaces. Further progress in this field requires development of spectroscopic methods capable of characterizing highly heterogenous interfaces and, particularly, water presence and interfacial electrostatic properties – all with high spatial resolution. The goal of our work is to develop spin-labeling EPR methods for assessing lipid membrane surface potential, local environment at the protein-membrane interface, and water penetration along this interface and their effect on effective pKa of model ionizable groups at membrane-protein surface. I will report on our recent progress in the use of pHsensitive ionizable EPR labels and related spectroscopic methods to 1) profile a heterogeneous dielectric environment along the α-helix of a WALP peptide inserted into a lipid bilayer and 2) assess the effects of solid support and, specifically, silica nanoparticles on lipid membrane potential and effective pKa of model membrane-burred ionizable sidechains. This meeting is free and open to the public. Attend in person at 3269 Beckman Institute or join via Zoom: https://illinois.zoom.us/j/88315635604? pwd=MDZmUk9pYzZQMXhJV2FzSm1uSWVSdz09 The event will take place at 3:00 pm. on June 6. Read more June 7 10:00 AM – 10:30 AM Gather in the Garden Beckman garden, west of the building through the cafe's double doors Contact name: Stacy Olson Contact email: srolson@illinois.edu Contact phone: 217-244-8373 Join Director Jeff Moore and your colleagues this summer for informal conversation and coffee in the Beckman garden, which is west of the building through the café’s double doors. This Gather in the Garden Series will be from 10-10:30 a.m. every Tuesday and Thursday throughout June, July, and August. Read more June 9 10:00 AM – 10:30 AM Gather in the Garden Beckman garden, west of the building through the cafe's double doors Contact name: Stacy Olson Contact email: srolson@illinois.edu Contact phone: 217-244-8373 Join Director Jeff Moore and your colleagues this summer for informal conversation and coffee in the Beckman garden, which is west of the building through the café’s double doors. This Gather in the Garden Series will be from 10-10:30 a.m. every Tuesday and Thursday throughout June, July, and August. Read more June 14 10:00 AM – 10:30 AM Gather in the Garden Beckman garden, west of the building through the cafe's double doors Contact name: Stacy Olson Contact email: srolson@illinois.edu Contact phone: 217-244-8373 Join Director Jeff Moore and your colleagues this summer for informal conversation and coffee in the Beckman garden, which is west of the building through the café’s double doors. This Gather in the Garden Series will be from 10-10:30 a.m. every Tuesday and Thursday throughout June, July, and August. Read more June 15 12:00 PM Yoga at Beckman 5269 Beckman Institute (fifth-floor tower room) Contact name: Elena Romanova Contact email: romanova@illinois.edu Join us at noon on Wednesdays this summer for restorative yoga with a view! All sessions are free and will be held in Beckman's fifth-floor tower room. Class will not be held on June 8 and July 27. All are welcome; bring your own mat! Contact Elena Romanova with questions . Read more June 16 10:00 AM – 10:30 AM Gather in the Garden Beckman garden, west of the building through the cafe's double doors Contact name: Stacy Olson Contact email: srolson@illinois.edu Contact phone: 217-244-8373 Join Director Jeff Moore and your colleagues this summer for informal conversation and coffee in the Beckman garden, which is west of the building through the café’s double doors. This Gather in the Garden Series will be from 10-10:30 a.m. every Tuesday and Thursday throughout June, July, and August. Read more June 21 10:00 AM – 10:30 AM Gather in the Garden Beckman garden, west of the building through the cafe's double doors Contact name: Stacy Olson Contact email: srolson@illinois.edu Contact phone: 217-244-8373 Join Director Jeff Moore and your colleagues this summer for informal conversation and coffee in the Beckman garden, which is west of the building through the café’s double doors. This Gather in the Garden Series will be from 10-10:30 a.m. every Tuesday and Thursday throughout June, July, and August. Read more June 22 12:00 PM Yoga at Beckman 5269 Beckman Institute (fifth-floor tower room) Contact name: Elena Romanova Contact email: romanova@illinois.edu Join us at noon on Wednesdays this summer for restorative yoga with a view! All sessions are free and will be held in Beckman's fifth-floor tower room. Class will not be held on June 8 and July 27. All are welcome; bring your own mat! Contact Elena Romanova with questions . Read more June 23 10:00 AM – 10:30 AM Gather in the Garden Beckman garden, west of the building through the cafe's double doors Contact name: Stacy Olson Contact email: srolson@illinois.edu Contact phone: 217-244-8373 Join Director Jeff Moore and your colleagues this summer for informal conversation and coffee in the Beckman garden, which is west of the building through the café’s double doors. This Gather in the Garden Series will be from 10-10:30 a.m. every Tuesday and Thursday throughout June, July, and August. Read more June 28 10:00 AM – 10:30 AM Gather in the Garden Beckman garden, west of the building through the cafe's double doors Contact name: Stacy Olson Contact email: srolson@illinois.edu Contact phone: 217-244-8373 Join Director Jeff Moore and your colleagues this summer for informal conversation and coffee in the Beckman garden, which is west of the building through the café’s double doors. This Gather in the Garden Series will be from 10-10:30 a.m. every Tuesday and Thursday throughout June, July, and August. Read more June 29 12:00 PM Yoga at Beckman 5269 Beckman Institute (fifth-floor tower room) Contact name: Elena Romanova Contact email: romanova@illinois.edu Join us at noon on Wednesdays this summer for restorative yoga with a view! All sessions are free and will be held in Beckman's fifth-floor tower room. Class will not be held on June 8 and July 27. All are welcome; bring your own mat! Contact Elena Romanova with questions . Read more June 30 10:00 AM – 10:30 AM Gather in the Garden Beckman garden, west of the building through the cafe's double doors Contact name: Stacy Olson Contact email: srolson@illinois.edu Contact phone: 217-244-8373 Join Director Jeff Moore and your colleagues this summer for informal conversation and coffee in the Beckman garden, which is west of the building through the café’s double doors. This Gather in the Garden Series will be from 10-10:30 a.m. every Tuesday and Thursday throughout June, July, and August. Read more Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology Address 405 N. Mathews Ave. M/C 251, Urbana, IL 61801 Phone 217-244-1176 Fax 217-333-2922 Email communications@beckman.illinois.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Explore Café menu & hours Reserve space at Beckman Print a poster Join a research study Give to Beckman Events at Beckman Job opportunities Advertise at Beckman