Skip to main content Search Cals Menu Cals Cals Menu Cornell University Home College of Agriculture & Life Sciences Home Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Biological & Environmental Engineering Main navigation Undergraduate Resources for Undergraduate Students ABET Accreditation Graduate Resources for Graduate Students Research & Outreach Biological Engineering Environmental Engineering Faculty Lab & Research Sites Food & Bioprocessing Engineering Industrial Biotechnology About Diversity & Inclusion History of the Department News & Events People Navigation Main mobile navigation Undergraduate Undergraduate Overview Resources for Undergraduate Students ABET Accreditation Graduate Graduate Overview Resources for Graduate Students Research & Outreach Research & Outreach Overview Biological Engineering Environmental Engineering Faculty Lab & Research Sites Food & Bioprocessing Engineering Industrial Biotechnology About About Overview Diversity & Inclusion History of the Department News & Events People Search CALS Search Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About Quick Links Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Breadcrumb Home Biological & Environmental Engineering Research & Outreach Biological Engineering Biological engineering is an interdisciplinary area focusing on the application of engineering principles to analyze biological systems and to solve problems in the interfacing of such systems—plant, animal or microbial—with human-designed machines, structures, processes and instrumentation. The biological revolution continues to mature and impact all of us. Human-based gene manipulation affects nearly all North American food supplies. Plants and animals are already being defined on a molecular basis. Living organisms can now be analyzed, measured and "engineered" as never before. Designer "bugs" are being produced to enhance biological processes. These changes continue to redefine our research and graduate programs that continue to emphasize biological, environmental and food and fiber engineering. Our connections to agriculture and food systems remain, but modern agriculture is greatly influenced by biotechnology, and our connections to agriculture reflect this fact. A basic goal is to design technology that operates in harmony with the biology of living systems. In many cases, currently available knowledge is inadequate to support engineering design of food and biological processes. Hence, greater fundamental knowledge of biology and its potential applications are also of concern to the biological engineer. Our research areas Molecular Bioengineering Biosensors, bioassays and microfluidic lab-on-a-chip systems will be developed for the detection of pathogenic organisms, toxins, and clinically relevant markers. Applications of the sensors will be toward clinical diagnostics, food safety, environmental protection or biosecurity. Nucleic Acid Engineering Work with engineering DNA into a nanomaterial for real world applications including drug (DNA/siRNA/cell) delivery, molecular sensing, cell-free protein production, protein engineering and nanoparticle-based photonic/optoelectronic/photovoltaic devices. Physiological Engineering Experiment with measurement and modeling of physiological functions in animals and plants. A broad range of projects are possible and can involve physiological functions at the cellular level as well as larger more complex systems. Microbial Fuel Cells Microbial fuel cells use bacterial cells for the generation of bioelectricity from waste products. Projects within this area include gene expression studies using Bioconductor in the R- project language, development of a portable potentiostat to study bacterial interactions in situ, studying bacterial interactions, and development of a microfluidic bioreactor. Bioenergetics and Stress Factors Bioenergetics involves development of mechanistic models to predict energy budget of endotherms for virtually any thermal conditions. Stress factors in livestock involves time series analyses of thermal data (temperature, relative humidity, wind speed and solar radiation), physiological responses data (internal body temperature, respiration rate, sweating rate, etc) and physical and optical properties of hair coat (fur layer) in defining stress and stress levels of livestock in hot and dry, and hot and humid environments. Energy Systems Engineering A systematic approach to future energy needs. Projects within this area include: Developing and validating system models of material, energy and monetary flows for cellulosic and corn ethanol and application of models to assess system energetics, economics, and carbon balance; Developing frameworks for integration of uncertain wind resources into existing electric power grids through the use of optimization in conjunction with simulations on a simplified power system. Controlled-Environment Agriculture Developing energy-efficient technologies to support year-round, local, vegetable production and production of high value chemicals such as pharmaceuticals from plants in closed environments. Soil and Water Engineering Developing, testing, and designing water quality protection strategies and novel approaches to monitoring hydrological systems. Additional focus on sustainable water development throughout the world. Additional research areas Biomechanics Food Process Engineering Metabolic Engineering Micro-bioreactors International Applications Navigation Research & Outreach Biological Engineering Environmental Engineering Faculty Lab & Research Sites Food & Bioprocessing Engineering Industrial Biotechnology Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information