Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Belonging at Yaleat Yale Search this site About Calendar News Videos Resources Antiracism Policies & Statements Communicators' Toolkit DEI and Belonging Resources Action Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging Plans Get Support Be Involved Share Your Ideas Home > Calendar > Edith Wharton: Designing the Drawing Room Edith Wharton: Designing the Drawing Room Event time: Monday, March 1, 2021 (All day) to Thursday, December 1, 2022 (All day) Location: Online () See map 120 High Street New Haven, CT 06511 Event description: One century ago, Edith Wharton (1862–1937) published The Age of Innocence, a novel that has become one of her most beloved works. Less known is her first full-length publication, an 1897 interior design treatise titled The Decoration of Houses. Wharton’s keen interest in architecture and the design of interiors and gardens remained with her throughout her career. While she published novels, stories, poems, and nonfiction, she directed the design of her homes, from her country estate The Mount in Lenox, Massachusetts, to her New York City residence on Park Avenue. Edith Wharton: Designing the Drawing Room brings together both aspects of Wharton’s career. It explores the rules she defined in The Decoration of Houses and their application in her own homes alongside her attention to design details in the handwritten manuscript of The Age of Innocence. These pages reveal Wharton’s deep engagement with the material world during her writing process and in the published novel. This exhibit focuses on Wharton’s treatment of the drawing room, known to her as a female space during a period of limiting gendered customs. In the world she describes in much of her writing, the drawing room was a specific sort of sitting room to which women would traditionally “withdraw” following dinner. The drawing room was also a space in which women could spend their days and receive guests. As such, drawing rooms provide a particularly rich context for understanding Wharton’s elite New York City society at the turn of the twentieth century and the role of women within it. The project builds on an English Department senior essay and highlights materials from the Beinecke Rare Book & Manuscript Library’s Edith Wharton Collection. Online Exhibit page Admission: Free Contact: Yale University Library 203-432-1072 Open To: Undergraduate, Faculty, Alumni, Yale Postdoctoral Trainees, All Ages, General Public, Graduate And Professional, Spouses And Partners, Staff Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Belonging at Yale Accessibility at Yale ·Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Managed by the Office of the Secretary and Vice President for University Life · Contact us Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Instagram