Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Belonging at Yaleat Yale Search this site About Calendar News Videos Resources Antiracism Policies & Statements Communicators' Toolkit DEI and Belonging Resources Action Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging Plans Get Support Be Involved Share Your Ideas Home > Be Involved Be Involved Join a student organization or employee affinity group, attend a lecture, or volunteer on a service project—Yale offers many ways to engage in efforts to create a more inclusive, equitable, and welcoming community. For Everyone Grants for Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging Grants are available to students and faculty for events, speakers, and programs addressing issues of diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging and community at Yale. Learn more about the grants. Yale Center for the Study of Race, Indigeneity, and Transnational Migration The Yale Center for the Study of Race, Indigeneity, and Transnational Migration (RITM) is an interdisciplinary center that supports research and teaching at Yale and beyond. Visit the RITM website. Poynter Fellowship in Journalism The Poynter Fellowship brings to Yale some of the most outstanding journalists from the United States and abroad. The program sponsors symposia and conferences offering differing perspectives on issues of broad public concern, including those related to diversity, equity, and inclusion. View Poynter events. Stephen A. Schwarzman Center Once complete in 2020, the Schwarzman Center will be transformational for Yale in providing, for the first time, a center dedicated to cultural programming and student life at the center of the university. Visit the Schwarzman Center website. Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning The Yale Center for Teaching and Learning promotes equitable and engaged teaching throughout the university, and supports students across the curriculum as they take ownership of their learning. View the Yale Center for Teaching and Learning website. Yale Women Faculty Forum Seed Grants Yale Women Faculty Forum offer grants to identify innovative ways to support the WFF mission by investing in the diverse work of faculty and student scholars at Yale. View information about the WFF seed grants. Service Opportunities Public service—in New Haven and around the world—is an integral part of a Yale education and alumni life. View service opportunities. For Students Student Organizations, Government, and Service Student Groups and Activities Overview Dwight HAll Graduate and Professional Student Senate Diversity and Inclusion Committee Cultural Center Groups Afro-American Cultural Center Resident Groups Asian American Cultural Center Student Groups La Casa Cultural Student Groups Native American Cultural Center Student Groups Advisory Committees with Student Participation Advisory committee on community policing Discussion Groups InterFaith Forum at yale (iffy) Social Justice Workshops For Faculty and Staff Working Women’s Network The Yale Latino Networking Group Asian Network at Yale Future Leaders of Yale Yale-United WAy Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Queer Affinity Group Yale African American Affinity Group Yale Veterans Network DiversAbility at Yale Campus Events Attend a campus event and join the conversation. View calendar Funding Opportunities Grants for Faculty and Staff RITM and the Poorvu Center support events with invited scholars or practitioners addressing issues of diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging in scholarship, pedagogy, campus climate, and/or institutional diversity. Grants for Students The Office of the Secretary and Vice President for University Life supports student-organized programs promoting a sense of inclusion, belonging, and community at Yale. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Belonging at Yale Accessibility at Yale ·Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Managed by the Office of the Secretary and Vice President for University Life · Contact us Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Instagram