Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Belonging at Yaleat Yale Search this site About Calendar News Videos Resources Antiracism Policies & Statements Communicators' Toolkit DEI and Belonging Resources Action Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging Plans Get Support Be Involved Share Your Ideas Welcome Through belonging, we thrive—able to be ourselves, to seek our full potential, and to freely participate in the vibrant life of a scholarly community and its pursuit of excellence. VISION Progress in Building a Stronger and More Inclusive Yale On October 14, 2021, President Salovey updated the community on the progress of Belonging at Yale. READ THE FULL MESSAGE What we will be—together Engaged without fear, to be our authentic selves Yale’s diversity, equity, and inclusion plans “We are connected by a need to improve the world, and we are a community that holds itself to high standards of acceptance, inclusion, & belonging.” READ MORE News Campus units create roadmaps for promoting equity and belonging February 24, 2022 School Shooting in Uvalde, Texas May 25, 2022 Shooting in Buffalo, New York May 17, 2022 Honoring Juneteenth May 5, 2022 More news Upcoming Events YAAA Book Club Discussion - On Juneteenth June 14, 2022 Join the Yale African American Affinity Group for a book club discussion of On Juneteenth by Annette Gordon-Reed. Women at the Dawn of History February 29, 2020 to June 30, 2022 (All day) Edith Wharton: Designing the Drawing Room March 1, 2021 to December 1, 2022 (All day) We Were Always Here: Celebrating ALL Women at Yale July 12, 2021 to June 1, 2022 (All day) More events Engage Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage March through May, Yale celebrates Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders within our community. Explore the many groups, events, media, and other opportunities that celebrate our colleagues and classmates. Many thanks to Yale’s Asian American Cultural Center, Asian Network @ Yale, Council on East Asian Studies, Native American Cultural Center, Yale University Library, and many others for their contributions to these offerings. LEARN MORE Belonging at Yale, 2021-2026 Belonging at Yale is the name for the university’s activities to enhance diversity, support equity, and promote an environment of welcome, inclusion, and respect. Activity will focus over the next five years in six areas. President Salovey has identified several actions as priorities for the first year. They are indicated with (P). These action areas are based upon the recommendations of the President's Committee. Scholarship, Research, Practice, and Teaching Invest in and coordinate centers for research and scholarship (P) Sponsor antiracism programs Add courses examining race Diversity of the Yale Community Invest in BIPOC faculty and postdoc mentoring (P) Expand student pathways, pipelines, and financial aid (P) Create staff leadership initiative (P) Hire BIPOC vendors, contractors, and professionals (P) Equitable Process, Procedure, and Responses Reimagine public safety and policing (P) Support informal resolutions including restorative justice Align responses to Title IX and other discrimination and harassment Enhance accessibility Professional and Personal Development of Inclusive Practice Offer education and training to all Increase resources for DEI professionals Practice having difficult conversations Engage alumni (P) Acknowledgement, Recognition, and Respect Recognize faculty, staff, and alumni contributions Invest in New Haven partnerships (P) Examine Yale and Slavery (P) Communication, Transparency, and Accountability Require DEI/Belonging unit plans (P) Incorporate DEI goals in performance reviews Collect and use data, benchmarks, and surveys (P) Convene annual review by leadership Launch the Center for Law and Racial Justice, an interdisciplinary hub for teaching, research, and policy work on racial equity and justice issues, using a successful Yale Law School pedagogical model that enables students to learn by doing and faculty to turn their classrooms “inside out.” Determine the best ways to ensure high levels of collaboration and project prioritization among centers, programs, and departments that conduct scholarship and research in fields relevant to addressing racism. Sponsor educational programs and events on issues of racism, including historical context, contemporary systemic racism and privilege, successful antiracist strategies, and allyship. Highlight these and similar programs as priorities for fundraising. Expand the number of courses that examine race and antiracism issues. Attract and retain underrepresented minority faculty, with a focus on BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, and People of Color) faculty. Offer focused educational programs and mentorship to postdoctoral scholars at Yale in preparation for faculty positions throughout the country and worldwide. Attract underrepresented minority students by expanding pipeline and pathway programs, such as the Eli Whitney and First-Year Scholars Programs, and by growing resources for need-based financial aid. Establish a Staff Leadership Initiative to further develop the pipeline of staff who will bring excellence and diversity to university leadership ranks. Expand and diversify the vendor, contractor, and professional consultants pool through a business diversity program for schools and units. Study and revise the model for public safety at Yale, with particular focus on policing. Develop a university-wide program, based on restorative justice principles, to support informal resolution mechanisms in response to racist and other unacceptable behaviors. Assess and align responses to gender discrimination and sexual misconduct (Title IX) with responses to other forms of discrimination and harassment. Enhance accessibility to ensure community members with a wide range of disabilities can take full advantage of Yale’s resources. Provide online and in-person programs to equip academic and administrative leaders and diversity professionals to create inclusive classroom, lab, studio, office, and department spaces. Develop online educational programs on antiracism, implicit bias, bystander intervention, and other topics and skills. Assess internal capacity for providing in-person workshops and address gaps. Provide faculty and staff with education and professional development on holding conversations on sensitive topics. Develop student co-curricular activities to train and provide opportunities to hold conversations on sensitive topics. Prepare proposal for a center/space to increase resources such as funding, staff support, workshops, training, and facilitation, to be extended later to the entire university community. Develop a university-wide strategy to deepen inclusive practices that encourage participation at all levels in university life. Meaningfully engage all alumni across generations – including those without a strong connection to contemporary Yale – with the university’s excellence today, and through the study and sharing of experiences and viewpoints on complex questions being addressed on campus and in society. Amplify faculty research and scholarship in fields relevant to diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) and antiracism. Launch examinations of Yale’s connections to slavery and interactions with Indigenous peoples. Develop additional activities and events that mutually benefit New Haven and Yale, recognizing the New Haven region as home to diverse populations who contribute to and benefit from Yale’s mission. Continue to work with New Haven retailers who rent university-owned spaces to help them withstand the impact of the pandemic on their revenues. Launch examinations of Yale’s connections to slavery and interactions with Indigenous peoples. Require all academic and administrative units to develop—as many have already— local DEI (diversity, equity, and inclusion) and belonging plans that include actions to address needs of BIPOC staff, faculty, and students. Establish and communicate common expectations for employees on DEI practices, to be evaluated annually. Create a robust university-wide data hub to assist with unit and university-wide plans. Launch an annual meeting of senior leadership to assess progress toward the goals, share best practices, review benchmarks, and consider updates to the university’s strategic direction with respect to DEI and belonging. Scholarship, Research, Practice, and Teaching Invest in and coordinate centers for research and scholarship (P) Sponsor antiracism programs Add courses examining race Launch the Center for Law and Racial Justice, an interdisciplinary hub for teaching, research, and policy work on racial equity and justice issues, using a successful Yale Law School pedagogical model that enables students to learn by doing and faculty to turn their classrooms “inside out.” Determine the best ways to ensure high levels of collaboration and project prioritization among centers, programs, and departments that conduct scholarship and research in fields relevant to addressing racism. Sponsor educational programs and events on issues of racism, including historical context, contemporary systemic racism and privilege, successful antiracist strategies, and allyship. Highlight these and similar programs as priorities for fundraising. Expand the number of courses that examine race and antiracism issues. Diversity of the Yale Community Invest in BIPOC faculty and postdoc mentoring (P) Expand student pathways, pipelines, and financial aid (P) Create staff leadership initiative (P) Hire BIPOC vendors, contractors, and professionals (P) Attract and retain underrepresented minority faculty, with a focus on BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, and People of Color) faculty. Offer focused educational programs and mentorship to postdoctoral scholars at Yale in preparation for faculty positions throughout the country and worldwide. Attract underrepresented minority students by expanding pipeline and pathway programs, such as the Eli Whitney and First-Year Scholars Programs, and by growing resources for need-based financial aid. Establish a Staff Leadership Initiative to further develop the pipeline of staff who will bring excellence and diversity to university leadership ranks. Expand and diversify the vendor, contractor, and professional consultants pool through a business diversity program for schools and units. Equitable Process, Procedure, and Responses Reimagine public safety and policing (P) Support informal resolutions including restorative justice Align responses to Title IX and other discrimination and harassment Enhance accessibility Study and revise the model for public safety at Yale, with particular focus on policing. Develop a university-wide program, based on restorative justice principles, to support informal resolution mechanisms in response to racist and other unacceptable behaviors. Assess and align responses to gender discrimination and sexual misconduct (Title IX) with responses to other forms of discrimination and harassment. Enhance accessibility to ensure community members with a wide range of disabilities can take full advantage of Yale’s resources. Professional and Personal Development of Inclusive Practice Offer education and training to all Increase resources for DEI professionals Practice having difficult conversations Engage alumni (P) Provide online and in-person programs to equip academic and administrative leaders and diversity professionals to create inclusive classroom, lab, studio, office, and department spaces. Develop online educational programs on antiracism, implicit bias, bystander intervention, and other topics and skills. Assess internal capacity for providing in-person workshops and address gaps. Provide faculty and staff with education and professional development on holding conversations on sensitive topics. Develop student co-curricular activities to train and provide opportunities to hold conversations on sensitive topics. Develop a university-wide strategy to deepen inclusive practices that encourage participation at all levels in university life. Prepare proposal for a center/space to increase resources such as funding, staff support, workshops, training, and facilitation, to be extended later to the entire university community. Meaningfully engage all alumni across generations – including those without a strong connection to contemporary Yale – with the university’s excellence today, and through the study and sharing of experiences and viewpoints on complex questions being addressed on campus and in society. Acknowledgement, Recognition, and Respect Recognize faculty, staff, and alumni contributions Invest in New Haven partnerships (P) Examine Yale and Slavery (P) Amplify faculty research and scholarship in fields relevant to diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) and antiracism. Launch examinations of Yale’s connections to slavery and interactions with Indigenous peoples. Develop additional activities and events that mutually benefit New Haven and Yale, recognizing the New Haven region as home to diverse populations who contribute to and benefit from Yale’s mission. Continue to work with New Haven retailers who rent university-owned spaces to help them withstand the impact of the pandemic on their revenues. Launch examinations of Yale’s connections to slavery and interactions with Indigenous peoples. Communication, Transparency, and Accountability Require DEI/Belonging unit plans (P) Incorporate DEI goals in performance reviews Collect and use data, benchmarks, and surveys (P) Convene annual review by leadership Require all academic and administrative units to develop—as many have already— local DEI (diversity, equity, and inclusion) and belonging plans that include actions to address needs of BIPOC staff, faculty, and students. Establish and communicate common expectations for employees on DEI practices, to be evaluated annually. Create a robust university-wide data hub to assist with unit and university-wide plans. Launch an annual meeting of senior leadership to assess progress toward the goals, share best practices, review benchmarks, and consider updates to the university’s strategic direction with respect to DEI and belonging. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Belonging at Yale Accessibility at Yale ·Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Managed by the Office of the Secretary and Vice President for University Life · Contact us Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Instagram