Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Belonging at Yaleat Yale Search this site About Calendar News Videos Resources Antiracism Policies & Statements Communicators' Toolkit DEI and Belonging Resources Action Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging Plans Get Support Be Involved Share Your Ideas Home > Resources > DEI and Belonging Resources DEI and Belonging Resources Individuals who implement DEI and belonging plans or related activities are welcome to use the following resources developed across Yale’s campus. Have we missed something? Please contact us to contribute additional resources to this page. Academic Resources For guidance on inclusive teaching strategies, blind grading, anti-racist pedagogy, and more, visit the Poorvu Center. Art and Iconography As you are considering how to create a welcoming and inclusive environment within your areas of campus, please explore the following resources: Moving Toward an Inclusive Architecture featuring Dean Deborah Berke, Yale School of Architecture (Yale News) Roommates Talk Homemaking, Remembering and Belonging through Art featuring Computing and the Arts double-major Itai Almor YC ‘20 talking with Film & Media Studies major Joshua van Biema YC ‘20 (Yale Schwarzman Center web series, One, developed by Laurie Gomez YC ‘22) The Committee on Art in Public Spaces is responsible for advising President Salovey about the numerous works of art situated in Yale’s public spaces, indoors and outdoors. The Committee welcomes the views of members of the university about art appearing in Yale’s public spaces. Data, Benchmarks, and Surveys The Toolkit for Assessing Programs and Climates can be helpful in measuring the effectiveness of your activities. Within the toolkit, you will find resources for assessing programs and training, basic guidance on measuring climate (staff, student, faculty, and alumni perception and experience of the university), and sample climate survey questions from Yale social psychologists. Events When promoting DEI and belonging events, please tag them in the Yale Calendar of Events, by checking the “Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging” box, under Event Category. Doing so will make it easier for people interested in this topic to locate your event, and it will ensure that the event appears on the Belonging at Yale Calendar page. To ensure that your events are inclusive for those who are attending virtually, visit Yale’s Conferences and Events website for resources and event planning tools. For information on making your event accessible, review the following: Accessibility 101: Making Your Virtual Events Inclusive Accessibility and Closed Captioning Digital Media Accessibility Additional Accessibility Training For additional questions about accommodation, please contact the Office of Institutional Equity & Accessibility. Communicators’ Toolkit Review resources developed to support communications community partners. Learning Opportunities From training to theater courses, Yale provides a range of DEI and Belonging learning opportunities. Free Expression on Campus: This conversation, hosted on April 27, 2021, featured five university administrators (including Yale’s Kimberly Goff-Crews, Secretary and Vice President for University Life), for a discussion on how universities are working to resolve the tensions between protecting free speech and creating an inclusive environment on campus. Impact 2: Yale Alumni Association: View this powerful virtual series, featuring panels, lectures, and personal stories that showcase and amplify the power of diversity, equity, and inclusion. LinkedIn Learning: Eligible faculty, students, and staff members may attend virtual courses on topics including Unconscious Bias, and more. Managing at Yale: The university’s signature management development program is an online program that all Yale managers should complete. Within these courses, Managers will learn about developing an inclusive work environment for their team. Mental Health First Aid Training: Yale faculty, students, and staff are eligible to take this international skills-based training course, which teaches participants about mental illness and substance misuse and how to help or support someone who may be experiencing mental health or substance use challenges. The goal is to make Mental Health First Aid as common as CPR, reducing stigma while emphasizing hope and recovery. Yale Repertory Theater and David Geffen School of Drama at Yale: Staff, faculty, and advisory board members of the Drama School and Yale Rep are eligible to attend Nicole Brewer’s Anti-Racist Theatre: A Foundational Course. In this two-part, six-hour course Brewer offers participants tools to craft their own unique anti-racist theatre ethos and delve into the three core principles of anti-racist theatre: harm reduction, harm prevention, and relationship repair. Reports To access diversity metrics, including admissions data, faculty headcounts, and more, visit the Office of Institutional Research website. Additional Reports, Data, and Statements can be found on the Belonging at Yale website. Staffing Resources For information related to reference checking, onboarding, diverse candidate advertising support, and more, visit Yale’s Manager Toolkit. Support For questions or support related to implementing your unit plan actions, please contact Belonging at Yale. Additionally, you can access a range of support resources on our Get Support page. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Belonging at Yale Accessibility at Yale ·Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Managed by the Office of the Secretary and Vice President for University Life · Contact us Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Instagram