Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Belonging at Yaleat Yale Search this site About Calendar News Videos Resources Antiracism Policies & Statements Communicators' Toolkit DEI and Belonging Resources Action Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging Plans Get Support Be Involved Share Your Ideas Home > News > Shooting in Buffalo, New York Shooting in Buffalo, New York May 17, 2022 Members of the Yale community are grieving for the victims of the gun violence at the Tops grocery store in Buffalo, New York, and for their families and friends. University resources are available to those needing support. These include: Student Mental Health & Counseling; Yale College Community Care; Faculty and Staff personal wellness signature benefits, including confidential counseling sessions; and The Chaplain’s Office; chaplains are available to meet one on one with anyone who would like to talk. From what is known to date, the shooting was a racially motivated crime: 11 of those shot were Black and two were white; the gunman broadcast a racist and anti-immigrant ideology. University help and support is available for any concerns related to discrimination and harassment. If you feel threatened or unsafe call the Yale Police (203-432-4400) or 911 (for emergencies) immediately. As President Biden has written: “A racially motivated hate crime is abhorrent to the very fabric of this nation. Any act of domestic terrorism, including an act perpetuated in the name of a repugnant white nationalist ideology, is antithetical to everything we stand for in America. Hate has no safe harbor. We must do everything in our power to end hate-fueled domestic terrorism.” In research and teaching, and in the broader education of future leaders, Yale studies and addresses mass shootings, racism, white supremacy, gun violence, and related issues. In recent months: Phil Gorski has written on the threat of white Christian nationalism, law school faculty and students on gun violence as an epidemic that affects everyone, and Mark Oppenheimer on the 2018 mass shooting at Pittsburgh’s Tree of Life synagogue. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Belonging at Yale Accessibility at Yale ·Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Managed by the Office of the Secretary and Vice President for University Life · Contact us Facebook Twitter YouTube Sina Weibo Instagram