Toggle audience navigation HR Home A to Z Index Forms HR Departments Pandemic Information Benefits, Employee Wellness and Work Life Search Search Search Search Toggle primary navigation Benefits Home Life Events Benefit Plans Retirement Retirement Plans (Mandatory) Retirement Plans (Voluntary/Supplemental) Phased Retirement Program Retirement at NC State Leave Programs Benefits Consultants Recognition & Wellness Employee Recognition Programs Wolfpack Wellness WolfPerks How to Request a 2022 State Health Plan ID Card Benefits Contact Information Show Less Show More The Benefits, Employee Wellness, and Work-Life team is available to assist employees via telephone or remote web conferencing. Benefit, Retirement and Employee Wellness Questions Please contact your assigned benefit consultant with any questions related to your benefits and/or retirement plans. Benefits Consultants are available to conduct appointments remotely. If your college/division is unassigned, please contact the below main number to be routed to the Benefits Consultant on-duty. FMLA, Workers Compensation and Leave Questions Please contact the leave team via email at ncsuleaveteam@ncsu.edu with any questions related to FMLA, Workers Compensation or Leave. Leave Consultants are available to meet with employees remotely. Employees may also call the main number below to be routed to an available Leave Consultant. Those with Paid Parental Leave Questions may contact: paid-parental-lv@ncsu.edu Contact Information Main Number: 919-515-2151 Fax: 919-513-2528 Email: hrsbenefits@ncsu.edu Staff Directory Benefits, Employee Wellness and Work-Life provides strategic consultation for prospective and current employees, as well as pending retirees, for benefits and retirement planning while administering several pre-tax and post-tax benefit plans. The unit’s Consultants ‘Build a Thriving Pack’ assisting faculty and staff via their work with colleges and divisions in achieving healthy lifestyle goals that address NC State’s six elements of Wellness. Benefits, Employee Wellness and Work-Life provides programs and services to help employees maintain a positive work-life balance including leave, recognition, perks and childcare programs. Benefits Enrollment, life events, death claims, etc. Retirement Information, enrollment, retiring, etc. Leave Leave tracking, FMLA, disability, workers’ comp, etc. Recognition & Wellness Recognition, staff & faculty wellness, special events Benefits, Employee Wellness and Work Life Staff Directory Benefits, Employee Wellness and Work Life Human Resources Campus Box 7215 2711 Sullivan Drive Administrative Services Building II, 2nd Floor Raleigh, NC 27695 Phone: 919-515-2151 Fax: 919-513-2528 Email: hrsbenefits@ncsu.edu © 2022 NC State Human Resources | Log in Office of Finance & Administration Emergency Information Privacy Statement Accessibility University Policies Contact Us Jobs UHR Intranet Human Resources Offices