Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Exec Ed Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Business Economics and Public Policy Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Faculty Positions Faculty in the News Research Applied Economics Workshop Development Workshop Energy Economics & Finance Seminar Industrial Organization Seminar PhD Student Presentations (BEPP 900) Urban Lunch Presentations Research Centers and Programs Research Papers / Publications Programs Undergraduate Program Course Descriptions Course Schedule Business Economics and Public Policy Program Behavioral Economics Program Wharton Undergraduate Programs MBA Program Course Descriptions Course Schedule Business Economics and Public Policy Major Actuarial Science PhD Program Applied Economics Faculty Applied Economics Job Market Candidates Course Descriptions Course Schedule Current Students Job Market Placement Prospective Students to Phd Program in Applied Economics PhD Photo Gallery Students Awards Wharton Doctoral Programs Law Certificate Policy Newsletter Department Information Staff Contact Us Directions Find An Expert Arthur van Benthem Associate Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy Contact Information Primary Email: arthurv@wharton.upenn.edu Office Phone: +1 (215) 898-3013 office Address: 327 Vance Hall 3733 Spruce Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: environmental economics, energy economics, public economics Links: Personal Website, CV Overview Teaching In the News Overview Arthur van Benthem is an Associate Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy at Wharton. His research specializes in environmental and energy economics. His recent work studies the unintended consequences of environmental legislation and the economic efficiency of energy policies. His current research focuses on markets for transportation, renewable energy, and oil & gas. He also writes for general audiences about economics, energy and the environment. His columns have appeared in the Boston Globe, the Economist, the Philadelphia Inquirer, and the Wall Street Journal, among others. He received his Ph.D. in Economics from Stanford University in 2012, a masters degree in Management Science & Engineering from Stanford, and his undergraduate degree from the University of Amsterdam. Before pursuing his doctoral studies at Stanford, he worked in various roles at Royal Dutch Shell, most recently in corporate strategy as an energy economist in the Long-Term Energy Scenarios Team. During his undergraduate studies, Arthur enjoyed working as an evening stock trader at IMC Trading in Amsterdam. Continue Reading Teaching Past Courses BEPP263 - ENVIRON. & ENERGY ECON This course examines environmental and energy issues from an economist's perspective. Over the last several decades, energy markets have become some of the most dynamic markets of the world economy, as they experienced a shift from heavy regulation to market-driven incentives. First, we look at scarcity pricing and market power in electricity and gasoline markets. We then study oil and gas markets, with an emphasis on optimal extraction and pricing, and geopolitical risks that investors in hydrocarbon resources face. We then shift gears to the sources of environmental problems, and how policy makers can intervene to solve some of these problems. We talk about the economic rationale for a broad range of possible policies: environmental taxes, subsidies, performance standards and cap-and-trade. In doing so, we discuss fundamental concepts in environmental economics, such as externalities, valuation of the environment and the challenge of designing international agreements. At the end of the course, there will be special attention for the economics and finance of renewable energy and policies to foster its growth. Finally, we discuss the transportation sector, and analyze heavily debated policies such as fuel-economy standards and subsidies for green vehicles. BEPP299 - INDEPENDENT STUDY BEPP763 - ENERGY MARKETS & POLICY Over the last several decades, energy markets have become some of the most dynamic markets of the world economy. Traditional fossil fuel and electricity markets have been seen a partial shift from heavy regulation to market-driven incentives, while rising environmental concerns have led to a wide array of new regulations and "environmental markets". The growth of renewable energy could be another source of rapid change, but brings with it a whole new set of technological and policy challenges. This changing energy landscape requires quick adaptation from energy companies, but also offers opportunities to turn regulations into new business. The objective of this course is to provide students with the economist's perspective on a broad range of topics that professionals in the energy industry will encounter. Topics include the effect of competition, market power and scarcity on energy prices, the impact of deregulation on electricity and fossil fuel markets, extraction and pricing of oil and gas, geopolitical uncertainty and risk in hydrocarbon investments, the environmental impact and policies related to the energy sector, environmental cap-and-trade markets, energy efficiency, the economics and finance of renewable energy, and recent developments in the transportation sector. OIDD263 - ENVIRON. & ENERGY ECON This course examines environmental and energy issues from an economist's perspective. Over the last several decades, energy markets have become some of the most dynamic markets of the world economy, as they experienced a shift from heavy regulation to market-driven incentives. First, we look at scarcity pricing and market power in electricity and gasoline markets. We then study oil and gas markets, with an emphasis on optimal extraction and pricing, and geopolitical risks that investors in hydrocarbon resources face. We then shift gears to the sources of environmental problems, and how policy makers can intervene to solve some of these problems. We talk about the economic rationale for a broad range of possible policies: environmental taxes, subsidies, performance standards and cap-and-trade. In doing so, we discuss fundamental concepts in environmental economics, such as externalities, valuation of the environment and the challenge of designing international agreements. At the end of the course, there will be special attention for the economics and finance of renewable energy and policies to foster its growth. Finally, we discuss the transportation sector, and analyze heavily debated policies such as fuel-economy standards and subsidies for green vehicles. OIDD763 - ENERGY MARKETS & POLICY Over the last several decades, energy markets have become some of the most dynamic markets of the world economy. Traditional fossil fuel and electricity markets have been seen a partial shift from heavy regulation to market-driven incentives, while rising environmental concerns have led to a wide array of new regulations and "environmental markets". The growth of renewable energy could be another source of rapid change, but brings with it a whole new set of technological and policy challenges. This changing energy landscape requires quick adaptation from energy companies, but also offers opportunities to turn regulations into new business. The objective of this course is to provide students with the economist's perspective on a broad range of topics that professionals in the energy industry will encounter. Topics include the effect of competition, market power and scarcity on energy prices, the impact of deregulation on electricity and fossil fuel markets, extraction and pricing of oil and gas, geopolitical uncertainty and risk in hydrocarbon investments, the environmental impact and policies related to the energy sector, environmental cap-and-trade markets, energy efficiency, the economics and finance of renewable energy, and recent developments in the transportation sector. In the News Knowledge @ Wharton How Price Shocks in Formative Years Scar Consumption for Life, Knowledge @ Wharton - 5/16/2022 Are Emissions Standards Helping to Curb Air Pollution?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 8/30/2021 Oil Price Shock: What It Means for Producers and Consumers, Knowledge @ Wharton - 4/28/2020 Are Weaker Fuel Economy Standards Based on Faulty Logic?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 2/5/2019 When Will Electric Cars Go Mainstream?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 1/6/2017 Why Trump Should Embrace – Not Ditch – Green Energy, Knowledge @ Wharton - 12/2/2016 Solar and Wind Power Are Growing – but Won’t Solve Climate Change, Knowledge @ Wharton - 10/10/2016 How Shell Is Preparing for the Energy Sector’s ‘New Normal’, Knowledge @ Wharton - 3/29/2016 Can the World Run on Renewable Energy?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 4/23/2015 The Unintended Consequences of Ambitious Fuel-economy Standards, Knowledge @ Wharton - 2/3/2015 Wharton Stories Research Spotlight: Prof. Arthur van Benthem on New Cars, Old Cars, and Air Pollution Today, Wharton Stories - 08/26/2021 From Sustainability to BEES: How This MBA Student Updated and Expanded Her Major, Wharton Stories - 12/17/2018 How This Wharton MBA is Paving His Future in Clean Energy Through the Kleinman Certificate Program, Wharton Stories - 10/04/2018 Prof. Arthur van Benthem Examines Energy and Environmental Markets Through an Economist’s Lens, Wharton Stories - 01/23/2017 Prof. Arthur van Benthem Talks About the Intersection of Corporate Strategy and Government Energy Policy, Wharton Stories - 01/23/2017 Activity In the NewsHow Price Shocks in Formative Years Scar Consumption for Life Teens who experienced gas price shocks of the 1970s drive less in later years, according to experts at Wharton and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.…Read More Knowledge at Wharton - 5/16/2022All News Wharton MagazineWhen Going Green Doesn’t Go as Planned Wharton Magazine - 04/17/2020 Wharton StoriesResearch Spotlight: Prof. Arthur van Benthem on New Cars, Old Cars, and Air Pollution Today In Wharton Social Impact’s “Research Spotlight” series, we highlight recent research by Wharton professors and doctoral students whose research focuses on the intersection of business and impact. This month, we spoke with Arthur van Benthem, associate professor of business economics and public policy, about his research on vehicle air pollution… Wharton Stories - 08/26/2021All Stories Additional Links Business Economics and Public Policy Department Home Faculty Research Programs Department Information Find An Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff Twitter Facebook LinkedIn YouTube InstagramSupport Wharton©2022 The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Business Economics and Public Policy Department | Privacy Policy | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help