Skip to main content Search for people, departments & websites Submit keywords Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Main navigation expanded Admissions Academics Research Campus Life About News Relive Columbia Commencement Watch the Ceremony Columbia Summer Session 2022 Learn More Meet the Class of 2022 Graduate Stories Columbia Business School Opens in Manhattanville Learn More Campus in the City About Columbia Previous Next Explore Medical Center Libraries Arts Innovation Athletics Giving News Read more about Current News facebook twitter youtube instagram linkedin COVID-19 Campus Resources Vaccine Booster Mandate Our vaccination mandate is expanded to require booster doses for all faculty, staff, and students who meet eligibility criteria. Alert Level: High Risk (Orange) Select metrics are monitored carefully to determine the campus COVID-19 risk level. Summer 2022 Travel Restrictions Travel safely this summer; read the Summer 2022 Travel Restrictions. Innovation at Columbia Learn More Most Visited Academic Calendar Academic deadlines, holidays, and other important dates Summer Session Learn more about our hundreds of summer courses. Visiting Schedule a tour of the Morningside campus. Commencement University-wide commencement information Careers Faculty and staff employment opportunities Columbia Data A statistical snapshot of the University. Featured Videos A Tribute to the Class of 2022 Meet Columbia's Women in STEM Columbia's Manhattanville Campus EVENTS See all events. Upcoming Ongoing Embracing Our New Work Environment Learn More Get Columbia News In Your Inbox Subscribe Locations Morningside Heights 116th and Broadway New York, NY 10027 212-854-1754 Intercampus Shuttle Irving Medical Center Campus 630 W. 168th St. New York, NY 10032 212-305-CUMC Manhattanville 125th and Broadway New York, NY 10027 212-854-1754 Manhattanville Loop Shuttle Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory 61 Rte. 9W Palisades, NY 10964 845-359-2900 Shuttle Service Baker Athletics Complex 533 W. 218th St. New York, NY 10034 888-LIONS-11 Columbia Global Centers Amman, Beijing, Istanbul, Mumbai, Nairobi, Paris, Rio de Janeiro, Santiago, Tunis Community Columbia University Neighbors Hub The Columbia University Neighbors Hub provides news, resources, and more for our Neighbors in Upper Manhattan. The resource directory provides a listing of over 100 programs and resources available to the community. Columbia Wellness Center The Wellness Center provides cholesterol and blood pressure screenings, health insurance enrollment, weight counseling, and other services. All services are free. A'Lelia Bundles Community Scholars The A'Lelia Bundles Community Scholars program offers independent, community-based scholars from Upper Manhattan access to a suite of University resources. Double Discovery Center Double Discovery Center works with low-income and first-generation college-bound youth in New York City to ensure high school and college graduation. Community Impact Community Impact provides a wide variety of education, health, and social service programs in Upper Manhattan while providing meaningful volunteer and leadership opportunities for students. Harlem Health Promotion Center The Harlem Health Promotion Center works in collaboration with community, academic, and public health stakeholders to improve the health of the Harlem residents. The Office of Government and Community Affairs is the University’s primary liaison with federal, state, and local government, as well as with residents, community leaders, and civic organizations in surrounding neighborhoods. The CUIMC Office of Government & Community Affairs maintains a similar role for communities surrounding the Medical Center. Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close