sign in Incentive Program Perks Events News Healthy Living Resources About Us Champions Bike to Work this month Earn points toward your BeWell incentive 2022 BeWell Program Earn up to $560 Register for spring Healthy Living Registration is open A Culture of Care Your physical and emotional well-being shapes how you move through life. It fuels how you approach your goals, relationships and personal growth. To help you reap the benefits of positive well-being, Stanford offers the BeWell Program to benefits-eligible university employees. BeWell offers a personalized wellness program that you customize to meet your unique wellness needs. We offer more than 60 wellness activities, most of which can be completed remotely, to meet the needs of a distributed workforce. These offerings include one-on-one wellness coaching, in-depth classes on a variety of wellness topics, quarterly wellness challenges and more. By participating, you can earn up to $560 in taxable financial incentives. Need more information? READ MORE Ready to get started? SIGN IN HERE BEWELL BEGINS WITH THE HEALTH ASSESSMENT. ONCE YOU COMPLETE YOUR ONLINE HEALTH ASSESSMENT, YOU CAN START WELLNESS ACTIVITIES. THE INCENTIVE DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 30. Health Assessment Your first step is the Health Assessment, an online health risk assessment, designed to help you make decisions that will impact your current lifestyle and your overall well-being. Take your Health Assessment to start earning your incentive. LEARN MORE ABOUT THE HEALTH ASSESSMENT Wellness Activities Earn up to $560 when you complete wellness activities. A variety of activities will surface throughout the year to help you focus on your well-being. Remote activities are available so you can complete the program anywhere at any time. READ MORE ABOUT WELLNESS ACTIVITIES Your BeWell Team Neelam Murthi Explorer Calm Nature lover Charelle Fernandez Loves a good spreadsheet Pampers two rescue dogs Journals daily Linda Lydon Mom, wife, sister, daughter, friend Always grateful and appreciative Home improvement handy gal » Meet all staff Upcoming Events Wellness Events Healthy Living 31 May Health, Illness, and Social Support in the Asian American Community 12:00 am 31 May Cancer Early Detection Seminar Series – Professor Caroline Dive CBE, PhD, FBPhS, FMedSci 12:00 am 01 Jun Outdoor Center Gear Sale 12:00 am 01 Jun Outdoor Center Gear Sale 12:00 am » View Full Events Calendar TOOLS Make time for wellness Finding time for wellness can be challenging. BeWell makes it easier. What is Well Time? Health questions? Stanford health librarians vet medical information and offer customized answers to your medical questions. Ask a librarian Browse the Stanford Health Library for information, events and more Facilities Learn about the exercise facilities available around campus. Exercise facilities Searchable campus map Running, walking and biking maps Stanford University Stanford Home (link is external) Maps & Directions (link is external) Search Stanford (link is external) Emergency Info (link is external) Terms of Use (link is external) Privacy (link is external) Copyright (link is external) Trademarks (link is external) Non-Discrimination (link is external) Accessibility (link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.