Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About About the Executive VP & COO Messages from the Executive VP & COO B&F Communications Policies Division Areas Facilities Operations & Planning Financial Affairs Human Resources Information Technology UM Police University Compliance Services Contact About Division Areas Contact Search About About the Executive VP & COO Messages from the Executive VP & COO B&F Communications Policies Division Areas Facilities Operations & Planning Financial Affairs Human Resources Information Technology UM Police University Compliance Services Contact Welcome The University of Miami's Division of Business and Finance, led by Jacqueline A. Travisano, Ed.D., executive vice president for business and finance and chief operating officer (COO), provides critical finance and business services to support the University of Miami's mission to transform lives through teaching, research, and service. With an annual operating budget in excess of $3.3 billion, endowment assets of $914 million, and total assets of $3.8 billion, the division includes all financial functions at the university, such as accounting and financial reporting; budgeting and planning; treasury and investments/endowment, pension assets and working capital, credit strategies and external financial relationships. In addition to these financial functions, the division provides human resources to the university's over 15,000 faculty and staff members; leading edge information technology investments; purchasing and supply chain services; campus planning, real estate, and development for nearly 12 million square feet of classroom, research, medical, and office space; facilities design, construction, and management; parking and transportation; campus police; emergency management; research administration; and university compliance services, which includes 'CaneWatch, the university's ethics reporting tool. We provide critical finance and business services to support UM's mission to transform lives through teaching, research, and service. Jacqueline A. Travisano, Ed.D. ABOUT OUR DIVISION About the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Jacqueline A. Travisano, Ed.D., executive vice president for business and finance and chief operating officer (COO) at the University of Miami, is responsible for all financial functions and services associated with UM’s budget that supports over 16,000 students and more than 15,000 faculty and staff. Leadership Messages Stay updated with Business and Finance's announcements and special messages for the University community. Our Division Areas Business and Finance's divisions strive to work together and transform lives every day. Our Policies Access policies for all of the Business and Finance divisions via our secure PolicyStat site. Facilities Operations and Planning Facilities Operations and Planning strives to provide excellent campus services and facilities for students, faculty, staff, and all members of the University of Miami community. Learn More Financial Affairs Financial Affairs aspires to deliver highly valued financial and business services that stimulate advocacy for sound financial management practices, operational excellence, financial objectives, and effectively support our community. Learn More Human Resources Human Resources creates, encourages, and maintains an environment that supports, develops, and sustains the well being of University of Miami faculty, staff, students, and broader community. Learn More Information Technology Information Technology secures and supports the technology resources that enable achievements and leadership in academics, research, and clinical care. Learn More UM Police UM Police Department (UMPD) actively works to maximize the safety and security of the Coral Gables campus through proactive community-policing. Our campus is patrolled 24/7 by highly-skilled and experienced officers. Learn More University Compliance Services University Compliance Services promotes and supports a working environment which reflects the University’s commitment to operating with the highest level of integrity while maintaining compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and policies. Learn More University Hotline University Hotline is the University of Miami's secure reporting system to identify, address, and resolve workplace misconduct. Learn More Green U Green U is the culmination of all efforts to increase sustainability throughout the University while educating its community to be better stewards of the environment. Learn More U MIAMI ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Business and Finance 230 Ashe Administration Building 1252 Memorial Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-6100 305-284-6100 305-284-4621 Resources About UM Workday CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices