Skip to Content Business, Finance and Administrative Services Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Division Leadership Contact Us BFAS Business UnitsExpand Collapse section Auxiliary Services Campus Facilities, Administration and ServicesExpand Collapse section Service Requests Announcements Environmental Health and Safety Services Sustainability Campus Safety and Emergency Management ServicesExpand Collapse section Department of Public Safety Comptroller’s Office Institutional Risk and Audit ServicesExpand Collapse section Institutional Risk Management Office of Budget and Planning Office of the TreasurerExpand Collapse section Bursar’s Office Real Estate and Asset Management BFAS Strategic Plan News ReportsExpand Collapse section Endowment and Investment Performance Annual Financial Reports University Budget ResourcesExpand Collapse section Confidential Hotline Emergency Preparedness Sustainable Campus University Policies University Records Management Search Search Home Comptroller’s Office Forms Forms Comptroller Link Departmental Financial Transaction Approval [XLS] This form is used to grant signature authority for accounts/departments for non-payroll financial documents. Any financial documents that require a signature are required to have this form on file in General Accounting. Interdepartmental Recharge Center Rates [XLS] These forms, to be completed at least annually, are required to substantiate existing Interdepartmental Recharge Center billing rates as well as to establish new ones. The amounts (on the Rate Development Worksheet) are the required direct and indirect components for all rates. To be reviewed and approved, all information is required to be completed on all templates. Petty Cash Expense and Detail Sheet [XLS] This form is used to report petty cash expenses. Disbursements Link Department Worksheet to Determine if an Individual should be Paid as a Non-Employee [DOC] This form provides guidelines and directions for the proper classification and payment of individuals. It should be completed prior to engaging an individual to perform services for the University as a non-employee. Employee Expense Reimbursement Request [XLS] This form is used to request reimbursement for an employee’s of out of pocket expenses related to University business. This form is not to be used to request reimbursement of travel expenses. It may be used to reimburse local mileage. Request for Payment of Professional Services by Non-Employee [PDF] This form is used to request payment of fees or honoraria. Fees and honoraria are lump sum payments for professional services rendered by non-University professional personnel or consultants. Such payments are for temporary services rendered by an individual for a short-term period. Travel Voucher [XLS] This form is used to reimburse Faculty, Staff, Students and University guests who incur out of pocket expenses while traveling on University business. This form will automatically calculate the mileage reimbursement amount using the current year mileage rate. The Paper Travel Advances Form MUST be used to request a travel advance. This is a 4-part paper form to request a travel advance. Please order through e-procurement using vendor Dupli form #32001-001 W-8BEN Certificate of Foreign Status of Beneficial Owner for U.S. Tax Withholding This form is used to indicate the tax status of a non-resident alien. The W-8BEN form and associated instructions are available on the Internal Revenue Service website. W-9 Request for Taxpayer ID Form The W-9 Form, and associated instructions, are available on the Internal Revenue Service Website. FAB (Financial, Accounting, and Budget System) Link BFAS Terminal Server + Portal Worksheet This form is no longer necessary for remote access to BFAS resources. Please contact the Help Desk at 315-443-4363 for questions regarding remote access. BFAS Terminal Server Worksheet This form is no longer necessary for remote access to BFAS resources. Please contact the Help Desk at 315-443-4363 for questions regarding remote access. FAST Access Request Form [DOC] Budget Managers and Grant Directors should complete the FAST Access Request form for your Information Coordinator with data needed to request access to FAB system. Financial Analysis and Property Management Link Off Premises Authorization Form [XLS] This is a Microsoft Office Form that is used to obtain approval for the removal and use of University property off premises. Office of Sponsored Accounting, General Accounting or Restricted Accounting Link Business Meeting Substantiation [XLS] This form is used to explain the business purpose of meetings that have expenses to be charged on a sponsored account. Grant Authorization Form (Graduate) The Graduate Grant Authorization form is a Graduate School form. It is used by University departments to request scholarship/grant funds not awarded directly by the Graduate School (assistantship, fellowships) for a graduate student. Grant Authorization Form (Undergraduate) The Undergraduate Grant Authorization form is a Financial Aid form. It is used by University departments to request scholarship/grant funds not awarded directly by the Financial Aid Office for an undergraduate student. Scholarship Tuition Information Sheet This form is to supply student information for tuition scholarships charged to a sponsored award. Stipend Payment Request This form must be provided to request payments of scholarships and fellowships to graduate students. Payroll Link Application to Determine Whether an Employee’s Graduate Remitted Tuition Qualifies for Non-Taxable Treatment [DOC] This form, instructions and flowchart help employees determine whether their Graduate level Remitted Tuition benefit is taxable or not, and allows them to submit the application if they feel that it is. The application requires departmental, cabinet level and payroll office review and approvals. Direct Deposit Form – Payroll [DOC] This form authorizes initiation of direct deposit into an unlimited number of accounts at any ACH accredited financial institution in the United States. NY IT-2104 Employee’s Withholding Allowance Form This form updates an individual’s state tax information. Which allows Payroll to calculate the correct amount of state tax to be withheld. The default NY State status will be single with 0 allowances. Income tax is withheld from wages based on marital status and the number of allowances claimed. An additional specified dollar amount can also be withheld. Tax information should be updated anytime an individuals tax situation changes. Whether an individual is entitled to claim a certain number of allowances or exemptions from withholding is subject to review by NY State. Syracuse University may be required to send a copy of the NY IT-2104 to NY State upon their request. Payroll Reallocation Form (PAR) [XLS] This form is to be used only to reallocate Payroll charges for any prior period between chartstrings. It cannot be used to correct charges for present or future periods. PAR’s are available online via MySlice. No training course is required. Once the Online PAR user’s guide has been reviewed, then a FAST request can be submitted by an Information Coordinator in order for a department administrator to be granted security access to the Online PAR. Payroll Request for Additional Pay (RAP) [DOC] This form is to request additional pay for an employee who did not receive pay through the Payroll system either by an appointment or time input. RAP’s are available online via MySlice. Request for Reissue of Form W-2 [DOC] This form is to request a reissue of Form W-2. Request for Stop Payment of Payroll Check [DOC] This form is to request a stop payment of a Payroll check if the check has been lost or stolen. Summer Option Program Form [DOC] For Faculty only: To receive their academic year regular salary paid over 25 semi-monthly pay-periods (one half pay, twenty-three full pays, and one half pay) starting August 31st of the current year, ending August 31st of the following year. W-4 Employee’s Withholding Allowance Certificate This form updates an individual’s federal tax information, which allows Payroll to calculate the correct amount of federal tax to be withheld. If this form is not completed the default Federal status will be single with 0 allowances. Income tax is withheld from wages based on marital status and the number of allowances claimed. An additional specified dollar amount can also be withheld. Tax information can be updated anytime an individual’s tax situation changes. Whether an individual’s entitled to claim a certain number of allowances or exemptions from withholding is subject to review by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Syracuse University may be required to send a copy of the W-4 form to the IRS upon their request. Tax Reporting and Analysis Link External Income Proposal [PDF] The external income proposal memo is used for the approval of rates resulting from income generating activities from external sources such as for profit and other non-for-profit organizations. More from this Section Annual Financial Reports Conflict of Interest Contact Us Contracts Disbursements Financial Reporting and Analysis Financial Systems Management General Accounting Payroll Purchasing Restricted Accounting Sponsored Accounting Tax Reporting and Analysis Resources © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy