Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Report Bias Newsletter Contact Us Search Home Who are we? Visit or Contact Us Staff Interns Tutors and Proctors Queer Advisory Council BGLTQ Faculty and Staff What's happening? Calendar of Events Weekly Newsletter BGLTQ News at Harvard In Case You Missed It BGLTQ at Harvard Campaign What resources are there? Gender Inclusive Housing Consultations and Workshops Grants and Funding Qoffee with QuInterns Online Toolkit Out@Harvard Support Groups Student Organizations Harvard Gender and Sexuality Caucus Terminology Who can support me... ...if I want to connect with the QuOffice remotely? ...if I want to get involved on campus? ...if I'm considering coming out? ...if I'm trans or genderqueer? ...if I'm looking for a job or scholarship? ...if I want to be an ally? ...if I'm a prospective student? Office of BGLTQ Student Life Mission Statement The Office of BGLTQ Student Life serves as a central resource for bisexual, gay, lesbian, transgender, queer, and questioning (BGLTQ) students at Harvard College. Through our work, we foster the inclusion, affirmation, and celebration of all BGLTQ identities and expressions. We strive to create a community where BGLTQ students can thrive and where all students are well-equipped to engage knowledgeably and compassionately with regard to gender and sexuality. BGLTQ Faculty & Staff Directory Did You Know? Out@Harvard is a directory of BGLTQ faculty and staff across the University who wish to make themselves available to support queer undergraduates at the College. We’ll be expanding this resource throughout the year, so be sure to check back periodically to explore new profiles! RECENT NEWS: Lavender Graduation Celebrates the Class of 2021 Friday, May 28, 2021 Qoffee with QuInterns goes Virtual Tuesday, March 2, 2021 BGLTQ Health Services Resource Page Monday, January 18, 2021 1 of 14 »Archive of News Posts Accessibility Everyone is welcome in our office space! We are located in the Lower Level of Thayer Hall. Elevators can be accessed in the entrance next to Memorial Church. If you have any concerns about accessibility, please reach out to us at BGLTQ@fas.harvard.edu. Office of BGLTQ Student Life Thayer Hall, Lower Level Cambridge, MA 02138 (617) 496-5716 bgltq@fas.harvard.edu Quick Links: - Dean of Students Office - Harvard College Women's Center - Diversity Education & Support - Harvard Foundation - Phillips Brooks House - OSAPR - Office for the Arts Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement