Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | CENTER ON BETTER HEALTH AND LIFE FOR UNDERSERVED POPULATIONS Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home About Us Youth Health Leadership YHL Facebook Give to YHL Reducing CVD Risk Project Health for Hearts United Dissemination Project Health for Hearts United Implementation Project Mentoring Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU CENTER ON BETTER HEALTH AND LIFE FOR UNDERSERVED POPULATIONS Toggle navigation Home About Us Youth Health Leadership YHL Facebook Give to YHL Reducing CVD Risk Project Health for Hearts United Dissemination Project Health for Hearts United Implementation Project Mentoring BHL Center Staff News & Events Collaborators & Partners Give to BHL Mentoring Other Projects Research Internships Collaborators & Partners Florida Alliance for Health Professions Diversity Florida Department of Health; Office of Minority Health FSU Center for Rural Health Research & Policy Afro-Carribbean Dance Theatre Gadsden County Department of Health Mission: The BHL Center will address the issues of health and life development for underserved populations. Specifically, the mission of the BHL Center is to help underserved populations have better health and life through transdisciplinary research and program development. Conduct research on health disparities and underserved populations that informs the program development process. Develop, implement and evaluate higher education programs to create a pool of educated and qualified graduates for the health professions who desire to work with underserved populations. Specific Goals: Develop, implement and evaluate community-based programs to address health disparities in underserved populations. Conduct research on health disparities and underserved populations that informs the program development process. Develop, implement and evaluate higher education programs to create a pool of educated and qualified graduates for the health professions who desire to work with underserved populations. Why BHL Center? Community-based interventions such as health promotion programs provide a mechanism to deliver evidenced-based knowledge to community populations. Used in conjunction with experimental and clinical approaches, health promotion programs are an important component in the research continuum to ultimately impact human health. Mentoring the current generation of higher education students is an important contributor to eliminating health disparities, giving the small percentage of students from underserved backgrounds currently in the health professions (e.g., 9 percent of nurses, 6% of medical doctors and 5% of dentists). Developing a cadre of allied health professionals who are well-prepared and committed to underserved populations will provide the human capital needed to tackle health disparities. Give to BHL We are delighted to provide you with an opportunity to provide financial support for the Center on Better Health and Life at Florida State University! Our mission is to help underserved populations have better health and life through research and program development. In fulfilling this mission, we mentor and train students to be future researchers. If you would like to support students in their training or help us to do outreach in the community, please go to the link below and complete the donation form. Thank you in advance for your generosity. Make a Donation Consulting Services The BHL Center is available to provide consulting service on a fee for service basis in the following categories: Conference Planning Instructional Development Program Evaluation Project Coordination Strategic Planning and Visioning Teacher Training and Workshops Writing and Editing Contact BHL 2010 Levy Avenue Building B, Suite 276C Tallahassee, FL 32310 Legacy Sort 8 Legacy Priority 0 title-inside title-centered 2 © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media