Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu Bias Impact Response Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State About OIED Impact Response How We Work Submit a Report FAQ Definitions and Resources Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State About OIED Impact Response How We Work Submit a Report FAQ Definitions and Resources Full Site Navigation OIED Impact Response NC State OIED Impact Response addresses the outcomes of DEI-related incidents that negatively affect our campus community climate. Submit a Report Your Campus Resource NOTE: If you are in crisis or have witnessed a crime, do not submit an incident report. Please call 911 immediately. For non-emergency situations, call NC State Police at (919) 515-3000. NC State University is committed to cultivating a diverse and inclusive community climate that is respectful, understanding and civil. There are, however, times when biased statements, actions and behaviors of community members impact others negatively and/or cause harm. DEI-related incidents and trends degrade institutional trust, prevent open and honest collaboration and often impede the learning of those involved. OIED Impact Response, serves the campus community by offering a system and processes that invite students, faculty and staff to document and proactively address the impacts of bias-related incidents, behaviors, and actions. Impact Response supports all individuals and groups involved, promotes education and dialogue and cultivates a campus climate that is conducive to successful student matriculation and effective faculty and staff development. A trained coordinator consults with campus partners to determine effective response mechanisms and facilitate challenging conversations using appreciative inquiry, community conferencing and other restoration-focused practices designed to promote cultural competence idea sharing, greater understanding and a healthy and sustainable campus climate. Impact Response does not replace or subordinate any existing processes for reporting and addressing acts of discrimination, harassment, concern or violence. The team does not investigate incidents and will refer them to law enforcement or the appropriate university offices when necessary. You can explore additional OIED reporting options below. Questions? Contact the OIED Impact Response coordinator at bias_impact@ncsu.edu. Learn More How We Work Learn how we work towards the goals of inclusivity, safety and belonging at NC State. Learn more Submit a Report Notify our team of bias you’ve experienced or observed at NC State. Learn more Resources Get all the information and resources you need to navigate bias. Learn more Bias Impact Response Office for Institutional Equity and Diversity 231 Winslow Hall Raleigh, NC 27695-7530 919.515.3148 Office for Instititional Equity and Diversity (OIED) Incident Report Form (BIRT) Complaint Form for Discrimination, Harassment or Retaliation (OIED) Staff Directory Contact Us Website Feedback Accessibility Privacy Policies Campus Map © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.