Menu SBS Galveston Billing & Payments Tuition & Fees Loans Aggie Card Info For Search Search Search Search Search SBS Galveston Billing & Payments Tuition & Fees Loans Aggie Card Info For Billing & Payments Due Dates Make A Payment Payment Plan Billing & Fee Explanations Refunds Texas Guaranteed Tuition Plan Other Important Dates Texas Tuition Promise Fund Waivers & Exemptions Late Fees Payment Methods International Payments Tax Relief Act Adding, Dropping & Withdrawing Tuition & Fees Tuition Calculator Locked & Variable Rate Plans Loans Emergency Tuition & Fee Loans MyAggieLoans Short Term Loans Make a Loan Payment Aggie Card Guideline to Follow Online Photos Report a Lost or Stolen Aggie Card Faculty/Staff/Retiree Info For Returning Students Incoming Students Military Affiliated Students Military in Texas Waiver Tuition Assistance Parents Third Party Sponsor Billing Process New Invoicing Platform Banking Relationships Aggieland Credit Union Wells Fargo Staff/Faculty Fee Exemption TWAPMTS Search Search Search Payment Methods Important Reminders: Summer 2022 Due Dates are now available on the Due Dates page. Please visit Aggie One Stop for all billing and student account questions, with the exception of Aggie Card, Specialized Student Billing, and Refunds. × Modern and Intuitive Payment Experience available online 24x7 Student Business Services accepts a variety of online payment methods for your convenience and ease of use. All students and authorized users can use the online payment option via their secure Howdy portal or parent portal. You may also mail payments or use the drop box option. Learn More Tutorial Videos for Online Payments To submit a payment online, you can choose one of the following methods: Echeck/ACH (FREE): You can submit a payment online at no charge, using banking information such as account number and routing number. Credit Cards (VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discover) 2.25% service fee charged at the time of payment. All online MasterCard and Visa (debit) payments will be processed as credit card payments and will incur the 2.25% service fee. International Payments & Wire Payments (powered by Flywire) To pay from other countries using local currencies (for most countries). Various payment methods are available including bank wire, credit card, online/e-wallet, and more, depending on the country. To pay via US bank wire, select United States under the country list and select the bank transfer option. To help you navigate the online payment process, we put together a combination of tutorial videos and user guides that show you how to: Add an Authorized User Sign up for the payment plan Make a payment in full from your secure Howdy portal Adding an Authorized User (Video) Signing up for the Payment Plan (Video) Making a Payment in Full (Video) Powered by User Guides for Online Payments Adding an Authorized User (Students) Adding an Authorized User (Parents) Signing up for the Payment Plan Making a Payment In Full) Making an International and/or Wire Payment Powered by Drop Box Payments 24 hours, Monday- Sunday General Services Complex, West Side next to FedEx Drop Methods accepted: Personal Checks, Cashier's Checks, and Money Orders. Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM General Services Complex, Lobby area, first floor, across from Aggie One Stop Reception Desk Methods accepted: Personal Checks, Cashier's Checks, and Money Orders. Pay By Mail Payment Mailing Address Texas A&M University Student Business Services 6001 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-6001 Priority/ Overnight Mailing Address Texas A&M University Student Business Services - Payment Processing Office 750 Agronomy Rd. Suite 2801 College Station, TX 77843-6001 Please note: Allow at least two additional business days for delivery to our office if using any U.S. Postal Services. Remember that the payment must be posted to your account by the due date regardless of the postmarked date. Wire and International Payments International Payments (Students) Use Flywire for international bank transfers, credit cards, and other foreign options. It's a secure, streamlined payment process that makes it easy to pay online from countries around the world, typically in your home currency. Flywire will deliver your payment in USD dollars to Texas A&M University with your student information for fast posting to your account. To make a payment, select Pay My Tuition/Manage my Account on the My Finances Tab in the howdy portal. Contact multilingual customer support round the clock via email, phone, chat, and WeChat for assistance with your payment — Reach out to Flywire. How To Make An International Payment US Domestic Bank Wire (Students) Log in to Howdy and select the Domestic Wire Transfer link to begin your wire payment from a U.S. bank account for College Station, Galveston, Health Science Center, and Law School campuses. Third-party Sponsor Wire Payments All wire transfers (U.S. Domestic Wires and International Wires) are accepted using our partner, Flywire. Please create a Flywire Account. To send a wire payment, you will need the Batch Reference Number and the Invoice Number from at least one student invoice. Please use the Additional Comments section to provide any information needed to ensure payments are posted accurately to each student. Flywire offers a Best Price Guarantee for international education payments if you find a better price at your bank within two hours of booking payment. Powered by Additional Information Payment Plan Instructions Texas Guaranteed Tuition Plan Payment In Full Instructions Billing Explanations Have a Question About Your Student Account? Use our easy web form to receive a response by email from SBS. Ask SBS Send us an Email. Email SBS Find answers to popular topics on Aggie Answers. Aggie Answers Send a text message to SBS and receive responses by text (available during normal business hours). Text SBS Division of Finance Report Fraud Accessibility Privacy Site Policies Staff Email © Texas A&M University | Phone: (979) 847-3337 | Fax: (979) 845-8126 | Email: sbs@tamu.edu | PHYSICAL ADDRESS: 750 Agronomy Rd., Suite 2801 | College Station, TX 77843-6001 USPS PAYMENT MAILING ADDRESS: Texas A&M University | Student Business Services | 6001 TAMU | College Station, TX 77843-6001