Skip to main content College of Sciences Department of Biological Sciences Menu Close About Contact Us BioSci Events Calendar Facilities Giving Award-winning Faculty News Outreach Teaching Philosophy Undergraduate Advising and Student Resources Degree Programs Outside the Classroom How to Apply Graduate Graduate Programs Student Organizations Meet BioSci’s Graduate Students Research Bioinformatics Ecology and Evolution Functional Genomics Genetics Integrative Physiology, Neuroscience, and Behavior Molecular and Cellular Biology Paleobiology and Forensic Anthropology Toxicology and Environmental Health Sciences Centers and Institutes Online Ed Courses Online Programs Meet the Instructors What Does It Cost? Apply Now People Administration Advisors & Student Services Business Office Faculty Staff JEDI JEDI Resources JEDI FAQ JEDI Student Advisory Committee What we’re doing to promote JEDI Give Now About About Contact Us BioSci Events Calendar Facilities Giving Award-winning Faculty News Outreach Teaching Philosophy Undergraduate Undergraduate Advising and Student Resources Degree Programs Outside the Classroom How to Apply Graduate Graduate Graduate Programs Student Organizations Meet BioSci’s Graduate Students Research Research Bioinformatics Ecology and Evolution Functional Genomics Genetics Integrative Physiology, Neuroscience, and Behavior Molecular and Cellular Biology Paleobiology and Forensic Anthropology Toxicology and Environmental Health Sciences Centers and Institutes Online Ed Online Ed Courses Online Programs Meet the Instructors What Does It Cost? Apply Now People People Administration Advisors & Student Services Business Office Faculty Staff JEDI JEDI JEDI Resources JEDI FAQ JEDI Student Advisory Committee What we’re doing to promote JEDI Give Now Beyond Basic Biology Our department focuses on interdisciplinary education and diverse research opportunities to explore some of the most pressing scientific issues facing our world. Goodnight Spotlight: Mya McDowell Goodnight Scholar Mya McDowell doesn’t believe in coincidences. Mya’s motto of “what’s for you will find you,” has followed her from the way she discovered her invitation to apply to the Goodnight Scholars Program to now, only one year away from NC State graduation. Read more. Play Video Dhuru Patel, a recent graduate in biological sciences, is passionate about giving back. He’s been using what he’s learned at NC State in his job at a medical clinic and to help with COVID-19 testing and vaccinations in the Raleigh area. Undergraduate Our undergraduate programs offer students a world-class education in the biological sciences that prepares them for bright futures. See what we offer Graduate We offer more than 15 degrees in seven focus areas at the master’s and doctoral levels, as well as a thriving research environment. Learn more Research Research is an integral part of the educational experience in our department, at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. Explore our research Nearly 500 Graduates With over 500 graduates in 2020-2021, the Department of Biological Sciences is one of the largest academic departments at NC State. BioSci Students Think and Do With the diverse range of concentrations under the BioSci scope, our students are impacting the world with contributions beyond the classroom. Check out a few of our students making their ideas reality. A Leader in the Lab and the Legislature Natalie Truby, a ’20 graduate in microbiology at NC State, stepped outside her science comfort zone to advocate for key rideshare safety legislation in North Carolina. Watch the video Legacy of Learning For BioSci student Cassidy Davis and her father, NC State alumnus Hal Davis, the class ring tradition is bigger than their Wolfpack connection — it’s a family legacy. Watch the video Finding your Wolfpack “Getting involved in organizations on campus, and helping other students do so as an orientation leader, really helped me find people on my wavelength. Now I love giving back to that student who’s feeling the same way I did my freshman year and helping them feel like they can thrive here.” Read about how Spring ’21 BioSci grad Pauline Bulala found her Wolfpack through student ogranizations NC State’s 4th Churchill Scholar Prepares for Deep Dive Into Genetics Spring ’21 grad Nikhil Milind is going to Cambridge University to continue his studies into links between human genetics and diseases. Read more Adventures Abroad When she was accepted to start her college career with NC State in the Spring, instead of the traditional Fall start, BioSci student Allie Denton discovered the Prague study abroad program tailored to students like her. Read more about Allie’s unique experience with the NC State Study Abroad Program BioSci Faculty Set the Standard for Teaching and Research With experts in paleontology, genetics, toxicology, neuroscience, forensic morphology and many others, our faculty make major impacts on our students and the world. Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions BioSci Associate Department Head Dr. Jane Lubischer and Associate Professor of Teaching Dr. Melissa Ramirez were part of a team who created the Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions online course, which introduces incoming students to the history, biology and societal impacts of pandemics like COVID-19 and how NC State faculty in many different areas are contributing to solutions. Read more Geneticist Heil Awarded $1.9M NIH Grant for Genome Evolution Research BioSci’s Dr. Caiti Heil has received a 5-year, $1.9 million NIH grant to investigate genetic and environmental components shaping recombination rate evolution and the influence of recombination rate on genome evolution. Read more A Summer in the Field with the Zanno Lab Ever wonder what it’s like to journey into the unknown on a real life dino-dig? Check out this guest post by BioSci’s Lindsay Zanno to learn what it’s like on expedition with her team. Read more Current and prospective students: Due to campus restrictions in place due to COVID-19, our advising staff are currently working remotely, but we are here to help! Please reach out to us via email: Life Sciences First Year (LSFY) Students: LifeSciencesFY@ncsu.edu For all other advising questions: BioAdvising@ncsu.edu General Student Services inquiries: BioSciHelp@ncsu.edu Stay safe and healthy! news Keeping Students Engaged in Asynchronous Lectures What makes the learning active or passive is not the modality (Zoom vs. pre-recorded videos vs. text-based lessons), but the structure of the lesson the instructor creates. Faculty Fellow Claire Gordy share tips for keeping students engaged. What Caused This Megatooth Shark’s Massive Toothache? Big shark, bad day. A damaged O. megalodon tooth points to an injury received while feeding. A Perfect Circle Park Scholar Loujain Al Samara ’22 pursued a broad range of experiences during her four years at NC State, and she graduates this May with a new understanding of what she has learned, how she has grown and what comes next — thanks to private support. Department of Biological Sciences Home BioSci Student Services and Advising Offices 2727 Bostian Hall Campus Box 7611 Raleigh, NC 27695 919-515-3341 bioscihelp@ncsu.edu Business Office 3510 Thomas Hall Campus Box 7614 Raleigh, NC 27695 919-515-5705 (no student support offered; business calls only, please) Campus Map Apply Contact Give Accessibility Faculty and Staff Resources Departmental Directory MyPack Portal Connect With Us Facebook Twitter © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.