FSU Biology - Main Page Florida State University Search FSU Department of Biological Science at Florida State University Toggle navigation Biology Main Page Directories and Information Contact Us Departmental Directories Faculty Directory Faculty Emeritus Directory Courtesy Faculty Directory Staff and Associates Directory Postdoctoral Associates Directory Graduate Students Directory Social Media Directory Biology Email Aliases FSU Phone/Email Directory FSU Campus Map Resource Guide Position Openings Faculty and Research Faculty and Research Interests Research Showcase Research Facilities Postdoctoral Program Graduate Program Graduate Program Overview Graduate Admissions Graduate Contacts Graduate Handbook Graduate Student Directory Grad Info (Current & New Students) CMB Graduate Student Association EERDG Request Information Undergraduate Studies Majors Biological Science Description of Major Tracks in the Major Academic Map Biology FSU-Teach General Information Description of Major Academic Map Computational Biology General Information Description of Major Academic Map Cell and Molecular Neuroscience General Information Description of Major Academic Map Bulletin for Course Descriptions Academic Advising Undergraduate Handbook Scholarships Undergraduate Research Research Opportunities Student Organizations Faculty and Research Online Resources FAQ's Seminars and Events Related and Outreach Programs Diversity and Inclusion Facebook Twitter YouTube Request Information Donate to the Department of Biology Sheila B. Lutz Memorial Scholarship Dr. Ralph W. Yerger Lectureship KING Life Sciences Building Biology in Action! We view biology as a unified field that is best understood by examining how the various levels of organization, from the molecular to ecosystem level, function, interact and evolve. Read more × Department of Biological Science Statement from the Chair We view biology as a unified field that is best understood by examining how the various levels of organization, from the molecular to ecosystem level, function, interact and evolve. Our faculty strives to excel in their own research and to reach out to other sub-disciplines to obtain a broad perspective. These include integrating molecular biology, development, epigenetics and evolution to better understand the relationship between the genotype and phenotype; the integration of neuroscience and ecology to understand behavior; the integration of genomics, computational biology and phylogenetics to understand the diversity and history of life; and the interaction of physics and chemistry to understand the structure of proteins. We regularly make use of the numerous centers of excellence at FSU including the National High Magnet Field Laboratory, our Molecular and Imaging Core facilities and the FSU Coastal and Marine Laboratory. We believe that a deep understanding of the principles of biology provides the best foundation for any career in the life and health sciences. We offer a diverse undergraduate program that can be tailored for careers in biomedical sciences, biotechnology, neuroscience, as well as marine, conservation and environmental biology. We prepare students for a broad spectrum of graduate programs. We offer specialty programs in Computational Biology, Marine Biology and a variety of career tracks including pre-medical science and environmental biology. Professors welcome undergraduates into their laboratories for research opportunities and can provide the opportunity for students to publish scientific papers and present at scientific meetings. We offer a number of departmental scholarships aiding and rewarding undergraduate research and scholarship. We offer MS and PhD programs in Cell and Molecular Biology, Ecology and Evolution, and Neuroscience. Our graduate students are supported year round by a combination of Research Assistantships, Teaching Assistantships and Fellowships. We offer an annual workshop to provide guidance for applying for fellowships, funds to travel to present at scientific meetings and numerous departmental scholarships for research. Our graduates successfully transition to postdoctoral fellowships, faculty positions at research universities and teaching colleges, and jobs in biotechnology and government agencies. Close Inquire About The Department Cell and Molecular Biology | Ecology and Evolution | Neuroscience Admissions: Apply Now Undergraduate Academic Advising Majors Tracks in the Biological Science Major Undergraduate Handbook Research Opportunities Graduate Program Overview Graduate Admissions Graduate Contacts Prospective Graduate Graduate Handbook Scholarships M.S Degree Program Request Information Previous Next Research Showcase Prospective Graduate Student Information Main Page | New Course-Type M.S Degree Program Now Available Combined Bachelor's/Master's Pathway Undergraduate Biological Science Major | Biology FSU-Teach | Biology in London Program Computational Biology Program | Program in Neuroscience WHATS NEWS Ecologist receives 2021-22 FSU Distinguished Teacher Award FSU biologist named 2022 Pew fellow in marine conservation FSU biological scientist named AAAS fellow © Florida State University, Department of Biological Science, 319 Stadium Drive, Tallahassee, FL 32306-4295 Phone: (850) 644-3700 Fax: (850) 645-8447 Questions or Comments