Skip to main content Social Media Links Skip to main content College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences UCR Home Search Quick Links Find People at UCR Give UC Riverside Department of Biochemistry College of Natural & Agricultural Sciences Search Welcome People Department Faculty Cooperating Faculty Members BCMB Graduate Students BMPN Administrative Unit Academics Undergraduate Major in Biochemistry Undergrad Major Overview Undergraduate Research Opportunities Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Graduate Program Program Overview Prospective Students Admissions Degree Options Financial Support Current Students Information for Current Students Financial Support and Awards Employment Events News Supporting Biochemistry Contact UCR Home Quick Links Find People at UCR Welcome to the Department of Biochemistry Located at the University of California, Riverside Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Graduate Program The BCMB Graduate program offers both a Master's and Ph.D. degree option Learn More Research Faculty research areas include Structural Biology, Enzymology, Plant Biochemistry, Biomedical research, in addition to a variety of subfields of Biochemistry Learn More Did you Know? The Biochemistry major is the second largest major in the College of Natural & Agricultural Sciences Learn More 2022 UCOP Grad Slam Finals Stay tuned as Claire Whitaker, UCR's Grad Slam 2022 Winner, prepares to compete at the UCOP Grad Slam finals on May 6th! Learn More About the Grad Slam Finals Previous Next Chair's Welcome How do basic principles foster life? We believe the answer can be found at the intersection of chemistry, physics, and biology—in other words, biochemistry. The Department of Biochemistry at UC Riverside is dedicated to the elucidation of these principles. With our world-class faculty, enthusiastic graduate students, and promising undergraduates, we aim to sharpen minds and foster curiosity that lends itself to high-quality research. Our department, and the rest of UC Riverside, is in a current period of growth, and we would love for you to be a part of this positive change. Biochemistry Faculty at UC Riverside specialize in a variety of subfields of biochemistry, including Structural Biology, Enzymology, Plant Biochemistry, and Biomedical Research. A strong dedication to interdepartmental collaboration and cooperation among faculty allows our graduate students the flexibility to pursue their interests. With an extensive group of cooperative faculty across the College of Natural and Agricultural Sciences, Bourns School of Engineering, and the UCR School of Medicine, it is our hope that our students can work at the intersection of various fields to pursue cutting-edge research in their search for answers to the most fundamental principles of biology. Our program hosts a large number of undergraduate students every year, who can choose a biochemistry major focused in chemistry, biology, or medical sciences. To encourage involvement in the field from students of all walks of life, UC Riverside offers various competitive research programs aimed toward minority and economically disadvantaged students. In addition, a high percentage of our undergraduates find that they qualify for student aid covering up to their entire tuition—because we believe that money should not bar anyone from seeking a higher education. I hope that this website will serve as a helpful resource for potential or current students, staff, visiting scholars and donors. Biochemistry Undergraduate Major Information about the Major Research Opportunities Undergraduate Advising Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Graduate Program Information about the Program Apply Now! Information for Current Students Upcoming Events BCH 251/252 Seminar- Rittik Ghosh, UC Riverside November 23, 2021 @ 12:00 pm ZOOM Link Contact: jikui.song@ucr.edu The Department of Biochemistry's weekly BCH 252 seminar series is presented this week by Rittik Ghosh, BCMB Graduate Student, Len Mueller Group, UC Riverside Seminar Title: "Mutation of βGln114 to Ala Alters the Stabilities of Allosteric States in Tryptophan Synthase Catalysis" Abstract: The tryptophan synthase (TS) bienzyme… View Event » BCH 252 Seminar Dr. Qiang Lu, City of Hope November 16, 2021 @ 12:00 pm ZOOM Link Contact: jikui.song@ucr.edu The Department of Biochemistry's weekly BCH 252 seminar series is presented this week by Dr. Qiang Lu, Department of Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine at Beckman Research Institute Professor, City of Hope Seminar Title: "Targeting the ERKS axis cell fate regulators for brain tumor inhibition -- lessons from brain… View Event » BCH 252 Seminar- Dr. Robert P. Hausinger, Michigan State University November 09, 2021 @ 12:00 pm ZOOM Link Contact: jikui.song@ucr.edu The Department of Biochemistry's weekly BCH 252 seminar series is presented this week by Dr. Robert P. Hausinger, Michigan State University Seminar Title:“Biosynthesis and Function of the Nickel-Pincer Nucleotide Cofactor” Abstract: Lactate racemase interconverts the L- and D-isomers of lactic acid, a central metabolic… View Event » BCH 252 Seminar Dr. Qiang Cui, Boston University November 02, 2021 @ 12:00 pm ZOOM Link Contact: jikui.song@ucr.edu The Department of Biochemistry's weekly BCH 252 seminar series is presented this week by Dr. Qiang Cui, Professor of Chemistry, Boston University Seminar Title: "Understanding biomolecules with molecular simulations" Biography: Qiang Cui is a professor of Chemistry at Boston University and also affiliated with Departments of… View Event » All Events Undergraduate Major BCMB Graduate Program Department Faculty BMPN Admin Featured Department News October 14, 2021 Biochemistry Department Receives GAAN Grant The Biochemistry department is proud to announce that we have received a GAAN (Graduate Assistance in Areas of National Need) grant! The Graduate Assistance in Areas of National Need (GAANN) is a national fellowship program which funds stipends of up... Read More » July 23, 2021 Biochemistry Student, Ryan Gates wins Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship From the UCR news article by Sandra Baltazar Martinez: Meet the 2021 Goldwater, Fullbright Scholars "Gates will be starting his third year in the fall. The biochemistry major conducts research with Ernest Martinez in the Department of Biochemistry. Gates wants... Read More » April 15, 2021 PANDORA-seq reveals nature’s secrets of small regulatory RNAs Congrtulations to Dr. Sihem Cheloufi who collaborated with Dr. Qi Chen's group at the Biomedical Department to examine small RNA dynamics during cellular reprogramming and their function in embryonic stem cells. From the UCR Article: A team led by a... Read More » March 19, 2021 Dr. Jeff Perry receives Chancellor's Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Research & Creative Achievement Congratulations to Professor Jeff Perry on being selected as a faculty recipient of the 2020-21 Chancellor's Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Research and Creative Achievement. The Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Research and Creative Achievement is given annually to... Read More » View more articles Give to Biochemistry Thank you for supporting Biochemistry at UCR Giving options University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 Department of Biochemistry Boyce Hall 1463 Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-3598 email: margarita.flores@ucr.edu alt email: julio.sosa@ucr.edu Find Us COLLEGE OF NATURAL & AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES CNAS Dean's Office Geology Building, Room 2258 900 University Ave Riverside, CA 92521 Related Links Related Links CNAS Dean's Office CNAS Graduate Student Affairs Office Graduate Program Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Give Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California Let us help you with your search × Enter your Search Criteria Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel