Skip to main content Mobile Main Navigation About Education Events Calendar News People Mobile Utility Navigation Harvard Medical School MyHMS Give Now Subscribe Menu Utility Navigation Harvard Medical School MyHMS Give Now Subscribe Search Main navigation About Subscribe Center Leadership Center Staff Clinical Affiliates and Ethics Leaders Group Community Ethics Committee Opportunities & Resources Contact Us Education Master of Bioethics Fellowship in Bioethics Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Visiting Scholars Medical Ethics & Professionalism (MA 750) Annual Beecher Prize in Medical Ethics Events Lectures Weekly Consortia Public Bioethics Forums Harvard Surgical Ethics Conference Contemporary Books in Bioethics Series Black History Month Event Series Annual Bioethics Conference Shared Community Events Calendar News People We Celebrate the Master of Bioethics Class of 2022! Harvard Surgical Ethics Conference All Virtual Sessions | June 6, 13, 21, 27 7 – 8:30 p.m. ET Learn More Master of Bioethics Degree Program One-year, Full-time In Person; and Two-year, Part-time In Person and Online Learn More Fellowship in Bioethics A one-year, part-time academic certificate program designed for those with a serious interest in bioethics. Learn More HMS Center for Bioethics The Harvard Medical School community is home to world-class thinkers who engage the ethical dimensions of new discoveries and new ways of delivering care. In this time of extraordinary change, with rapid advances in biomedical science, the Center for Bioethics provides a crucial focal point for these discussions. Master of Bioethics Upcoming Events Fellowship in Bioethics Latest News | May 25, 2022 Get to Know APA's New President While we celebrated our 2022 MBE class at their hooding ceremony, our very own associate director for the Center for Bioethics, Dr. Rebecca Weintraub Brendel, was instated as president of the American Psychiatric Association (APA). Get to Know APA's New President A Closer Look at the Impact of One Million U.S. Covid Deaths Dr. Rebecca Weintraub Brendel, associate director for the Center for Bioethics and president-elect... Has the BLM Movement Influenced Police Use of Lethal Force? Glenn Ellis, Harvard Medical School 2019 bioethics fellow and visiting scholar at Tuskegee... View All News Upcoming Events Guidance on Covid Stay Up-to-Date With Our Community Response Harvard Medical School has taken a phased approach to welcoming members of our community back to campus to resume in-person activities. We will continue to prioritize the health and safety of our students, faculty, staff, and surrounding community in every decision we make. Named Bioethics Lectures Join a Global Audience Answering Bioethical Questions The Center for Bioethics sponsors free public lectures throughout the academic year. The George W. Gay Lecture focuses on medical ethics and The Lawrence Lader Lectureship on family planning and reproductive rights. Support Us With a Gift Ethics in Medicine Has Never Been More Important The Center for Bioethics works to ensure that values and ethics are always part of medical training, laboratory and clinical research, and professional education. Your contribution supports this mission globally, nationally, and locally. Make a gift today. 2022 MBE Capstone Projects Connect With Us Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Follow us on LinkedIn Facebook twitter linkedin youtube 641 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-2570 Footer Accessibility Give Now Contact Us Privacy Policy Subscribe © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College