Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Yale Interdisciplinary Center for Bioethics Home People Our Primary Team Summer Faculty Additional Scholars Executive Committee Emeritus Faculty & Staff In Memorium Selected Publications About Us Support Our Work Programs 1-day Clinical Ethics Program Foundations of Bioethics Summer Institute in Bioethics International Policy Forum Mediation Training Calendar Upcoming Events Study Groups Community Bioethics Technology & Ethics Animal Ethics Race, Bioethics, and Public Health Welcome Yale Interdisciplinary Center for Bioethics focuses its attention on bios or life, and the ways we have helped, broken and abused it. Our teaching and research program is broader than most bioethics programs’, and includes not only biomedical ethics but also environmental ethics, animal ethics, the ethics of scientific research, business and professional ethics, and ethics issues relating to new technologies. We have a research alliance with the Hastings Center, a non-partisan independent bioethics research institute, and are frequently hosts to Yale-Hastings Center scholars from around the world. Our two-month summer bioethics program is an unrivalled opportunity for college and graduate students to gain exposure to a broad range of bioethics issues; this year’s program drew students from 24 countries around the world, as well as from over a dozen American colleges and universities. Our term-time study groups and lecture series cover a broad range of topics and regularly bring world-class speakers to the Yale and New Haven communities. We have continuing interests in questions of health policy, cost containment and justice. Staff members have served on a number of public commissions, including Connecticut’s Stem Cell Research Advisory Board, and state planning committees on Tissue Banking and on Public Health Preparedness. We are also involved with the work of Yale-New Haven Hospital’s ethics committees and Yale University’s IRBs. We are a project of the Institution for Social and Policy Studies. The Center has enjoyed additional support, in the past, from the Patrick and Catherine Weldon Donaghue Medical Research Foundation, PepsiCo, the Esther A. and Joseph Klingenstein Fund, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the Center for Humans and Nature, the New Haven Community Foundation, and Jerome Medalie. We are currently supported by the Whitney Humanities Center at Yale, the National Institute of Mental Health, the National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the Nationanl Institute on Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, the Fogarty International Center, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, Connecticut’s Department of Children and Families, the British Arts and Humanities Council, and several anonymous donors. Welcome to our website! We hope you take some time to look around, and discover ways to participate yourself in the work of the Center. Stephen R. Latham Director, Interdisciplinary Center for Bioethics About Us Visit our Youtube channel; Sign up for our newsletter by sending a request to bioethics@Yale.edu; Follow us on Facebook; Media inquiries? Email us at bioethics@Yale.edu. Upcoming Events No events to display. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Campus map Facebook Twitter Sina Weibo YouTube