About us Services Projects Publications Presentations Team Links Contact Welcome The ITMAT Bioinformatics Group is a bioinformatics research group that engages in collaborations on translational science to meet the needs of ITMAT investigators. We perform methods development for the statistical and computational analysis of high-throughput data, as well as solutions for "big data" management and deployment. We undertake all types of informatics projects both small and large, however our methods development is currently focused on RNA-Seq analysis, particularly low-level analysis starting with raw data and ending with quantified and normmalized spreadsheets. We are particularly focused on unbiased and rigorous benchmarking of the various stages of analysis. We offer RNA-Seq analysis as a primary service. We also offer consluting on study design and in the writing of bioinformatics methods for grants and publications. Our services RNA-Seq analysis We provide basic low-level RNA-Seq analysis including alignment, quantification, normalization, differential expression analysis, pathway analysis and data annotation and management. See our price list for specifics. RNA-Seq workshops The Institute for Translational Medicine and Therapeutics (ITMAT) in conjunction with the Institute of Biomedical Informatics (IBI) offer full day workshops on RNA-Seq analysis for bioinformaticians. Standard practices in RNA-Seq analysis do not tend to be the most effective methods. Most high profile reviews are based on impressions and not on hard data. In this workshop we present comparative analysis of existing methods to see what really works and what doesn't, as well as cover the most important issues and how to deal with them. More info can be found on pages from previous workshops: Feb. 25th, 2014, June 11, 2014 - Milan, Italy, June 23, 2015 (for industry) Sign up to get notified for the next workshop. Our projects RNA-Seq analysis We develop methods for normalization, differential expression analysis, data simulation and benchmarking. Proteomics We perform mass spectometry data analysis for protein identification, spectra comparisons and visualization, multiple modifications identification, peptide and protein differential expression analysis, gene ontology and motif enrichment analysis, specific modifications site prediction, highest scored peptides and proteins identification. Data management We develop low overhead integrative genomics resources for managing the heterogeneous data and analyses generated by the typical academic lab. Benchmarking RNA-Seq analysis is a confusing landscape with dozens of published algorithms available for every step of the low-level analysis pipeline. We perform extensive benchmarking studies with both real and simulated data to evaluate and optimize the methods for each step. eagle-i eagle-i is an effort to make searching for resources like shopping on Amazon. We manage the UPenn local instance of this project and interface with the network. Biobank We have in-house systems for minimally tracking the whereabouts of biological samples and printing barcoded labels. Nitecap Nitecap is a method for identification of circadian or rhythmic patterns in massively-parallel measurements of biological entities; for example, finding circadian behavior in timecourse gene expression data from RNA-Seq or microarrays. Teqila Teqila is a tool that looks for enrichment of certain characteristics of differentially expressed genomic features. RNA-Seq simulations CAMPAREE is a member of the BEERS2 suite of tools that simulates the collection of RNA molecules in a biological sample, prior to RNA-seq library preparation. BEERS2.0 is a modular RNA-Seq simulator (successor to the BEERS simulator), to generate realistic RNA-Seq data; by modeling each biochemical step in library preparation / sequencing and biological variability using empirical data. Our publications (ITMAT Bioinformatics members indicated by bold) Sex Dependent Role of Atrial Natriuretic Peptide in the Regulation of Blood Pressure in Prostaglandin Deficient Mice. Tang SY, Anderson ST, Meng H, Sarantopoulou D, Ricciotti E, Hennessy E, Grant GR, FitzGerald GA(under review) Comparative evaluation of full-length isoform quantification from RNA-Seq Dimitra Sarantopoulou*, Soumyashant Nayak*, Thomas G Brooks, Nicholas F Lahens, Gregory R Grant (under review) CAMPAREE: A robust and configurable RNA expression simulator Nicholas Lahens, Thomas G Brooks, Dimitra Sarantopoulou, Soumyashant Nayak, Cris Lawrence, Anand Srinivasan, Jonathan Schug, John B Hogenesch, Yoseph Barash, Gregory R Grant (under review) Age Attenuates the Transcriptional Changes that Occur with Sleep in the Medial Prefrontal Cortex Xiaofeng Guo, Brendan T. Keenan, Dimitra Sarantopoulou, Diane C. Lim, Jie Lian, Gregory R. Grant, Allan I. Pack (under review) Comparative evaluation of RNA-Seq library preparation methods for strand-specificity and low input Dimitra Sarantopoulou, Soon Yew Tang, Emanuela Ricciotti, Nicholas F. Lahens, Damien Lekkas, Jonathan Schug, Xiaofeng S. Guo, Georgios K. Paschos, Garret A. FitzGerald, Allan I. Pack, Gregory R. Grant (under review) Comprehensive RNA-Seq Normalization Benchmarking and Resampling-Based Read-Level Normalization for Differential Expression Analysis. Kim EJ, Lahens NF, Ricciotti E, Tishkoff S, Paschos GK, Sarantopoulou D, FitzGerald GA, Grosser T, Hogenesch J, Manduchi E, Grant GR(under review) Variability in the Analgesic Response to Ibuprofen Is Associated With Cyclooxygenase Activation in Inflammatory Pain. Theken KN, Hersh EV, Lahens NF, Lee HM, Li X, Granquist EJ, Giannakopoulos HE, Levin LM, Secreto SA, Grant GR, Detre JA, FitzGerald GA, Grosser T, Farrar JT Clin Pharmacol Ther. (2019) Mar 31 A specific sequence in the genome of respiratory syncytial virus regulates the generation of copy-back defective viral genomes. Sun Y, Kim EJ, Felt SA, Taylor LJ, Agarwal D, Grant GR, López CB. PLoS Pathog. (2019) Apr 17;15(4):e1007707 Spliceosome factors target timeless (tim) mRNA to control clock protein accumulation and circadian behavior in Drosophila. Shakhmantsir I, Nayak S, Grant GR, Sehgal A Elife. (2018) Dec 5;7. pii: e39821 Lipocalin-Like Prostaglandin D Synthase but Not Hemopoietic Prostaglandin D Synthase Deletion Causes Hypertension and Accelerates Thrombogenesis in Mice. Song WL, Ricciotti E, Liang X, Grosser T, Grant GR, FitzGerald GA J Pharmacol Exp Ther. (2018) Dec;367(3):425-432 SAP97 regulates behavior and expression of schizophrenia risk enriched gene sets in mouse hippocampus. Gupta P, Uner OE, Nayak S, Grant GR, Kalb RG PLoS One. (2018) Jul 11;13(7):e0200477 Overlap in signaling between Smoothened and the α subunit of the heterotrimeric G protein G13. Guo X, Riobo-Del Galdo NA, Kim EJ, Grant GR, Manning DR PLoS One. (2018) May 15;13(5):e0197442 Complete Transcriptome Profiling of Normal and Age-Related Macular Degeneration Eye Tissues Reveals Dysregulation of Anti-Sense Transcription. Kim EJ, Grant GR, Bowman AS, Haider N, Gudiseva HV, Chavali VRM Sci Rep. (2018) Feb 14;8(1):3040 Iso-relevance Functions - A Systematic Approach to Ranking Genomic Features by Differential Effect Size Soumyashant Nayak, Nicholas Lahens, Eun Ji Kim, Emanuela Ricciotti, George Paschos, Sarah Tiskoff, Dimitra Sarantopoulou, Shaon Sengupta, Barry Cooperman, Tilo Grosser, Gregory Grant BioRxiv (2018) doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/381814 Distinct vascular genomic response of proton and gamma radiation-A pilot investigation. Ricciotti E*, Sarantopoulou D*, Grant GR, Sanzari JK, Krigsfeld GS, Kiliti AJ, Kennedy AR, Grosser T PLoS One (2019) Feb 11;14(2):e0207503. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207503 Outlier detection for improved differential splicing quantification from RNA-Seq experiments with replicates. Norton SS, Vaquero-Garcia J, Lahens NF, Grant GR, Barash Y. Bioinformatics. (2018) May 1;34(9):1488-1497 Analysis of hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids (HETEs) in human whole blood by chiral ultrahigh performance liquid chromatography (UHPLC)-electron capture atmospheric pressure chemical ionization/high resolution mass spectrometry (ECAPCI/HRMS) Liudmila L Mazaleuskaya, Ashkan Salamatipour, Dimitra Sarantopoulou, Liwei Weng, Garret A FitzGerald, Ian A Blair, and Clementina Mesaros. J. Lipid Res. (2018) Jan 4. pii: jlr.D081414 A Pilot Characterization of the Human Chronobiome. Skarke C, Lahens NF, Rhoades SD, Campbell A, Bittinger K, Bailey A, Hoffmann C, Olson RS, Chen L, Yang G, Price TS, Moore JH, Bushman FD, Greene CS, Grant GR, Weljie AM, FitzGerald GA Sci Rep. (2017) Dec 7;7(1):17141 Mitotic Transcription and Waves of Gene Reactivation During Mitotic Exit. Katherine C. Palozola, Greg Donahue, Gregory R. Grant, Justin S. Becker, Allison Cote, Hong Liu, Hongtao Yu, Arjun Raj, Kenneth S. Zaret. Science (2017) Oct 6;358(6359):119-122 Sleep restriction induced energy, methylation and lipogenesis metabolic switches in rat liver. Arjun Sengupta, Seth D Rhoades, Eun Ji Kim, Soumyashant Nayak, Gregory R Grant, Peter Meerlo, Aalim M Weljie. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. (2017) Dec;93:129-135 A comparison of Illumina and Ion Torrent sequencing platforms in the context of differential gene expression. Nicholas F. Lahens, Emanuela Ricciotti, Olga Smirnova, Erik Toorens, Eun Ji Kim, Giacomo Baruzzo, Katharina E. Hayer, Tapan Ganguly, Jonathan Schug, Gregory R. Grant. BMC Genomics (2017) Aug 10;18(1):602 Histone posttranslational modifications predict specific alternative exon subtypes in mammalian brain. Qiwen Hu, Eun Ji Kim, Jian Feng, Gregory R. Grant, Elizabeth A. Heller. PLoS Comput Biol. (2017) Jun 13;13(6) The Nephila clavipes genome highlights the diversity of spider silk genes and their complex expression Paul L. Babb, Nicholas F. Lahens, Sandra M. Correa-Garhwal, David N. Nicholson, Eun Ji Kim, John B. Hogenesch, Matjaž Kuntner, Linden Higgins, Cheryl Y. Hayashi, Ingi Agnarsson, Benjamin F. Voight Nature (2017) Characterizing the 'POAGome': a bioinformatics-driven approach to primary open-angle glaucoma Ian D. Danford, Lana D. Verkuil, Daniel J. Choi, David W. Collins, Harini V. Gudiseva, Katherine E. Uyhazi, Marisa K. Lau, Levi N. Kanu, Gregory R. Grant, Venkata R.M. Chavali, Joan M. O'Brien Progress in Retinal and Eye Research (2017) Feb 18 Transcriptional and Cell Cycle Alterations Mark Aging of Primary Human Adipose-Derived Stem Cells Xiaoyin Shan, Cleresa Roberts, Eun Ji Kim, Arianna Brenner, Gregory Grant, Ivona Percec Stem Cells (2017) Feb 17 Simulation-Based Comprehensive Benchmarking of RNA-Seq Aligners Giacomo Baruzzo, Katharina E. Hayer, Eun Ji Kim, Barbara Di Camillo, Garret A. FitzGerald, Gregory Grant. Nature Methods (2017) Feb;14(2):135-139 A broad-spectrum lipidomics screen of anti-inflammatory drug combinations in human blood. Liudmila Mazaleuskaya, John Lawson, Xuanwen Li, Gregory Grant, Clementina Mesaros, Tilo Grosser, Ian Blair, Emanuela Ricciotti, Garret Fitzgerald. JCI Insight. (2016) Aug 4;1(12) Investigation of the functional role of human Interleukin-8 gene haplotypes by CRISPR/Cas9 mediated genome editing Manjunatha R. Benakanakere, Livia S. Finoti, Urara Tanaka, Gregory R. Grant, Raquel M. Scarel-Caminaga, Denis F. Kinane. Scientific Reports (2016) Aug 8;6:31180 Cardiovascular Consequences of Prostanoid I Receptor Deletion in Microsomal Prostaglandin E Synthase-1 Deficient Hyperlipidemic Mice Soon Yew Tang, James Monslow, Gregory R. Grant, Leslie Todd, Sven-Christian Pawelzik, Lihong Chen, John Lawson, Ellen Pure, Garret A. FitzGerald Circulation. (2016) Jul 26;134(4) Timing of expression of the core clock gene Bmal1 influences its effects on aging and survival. Guangrui Yang, Lihong Chen, Grant GR, Georgios Paschos, Wenliang Song, Erik S. Musiek, Vivian Lee, Sarah C. McLoughlin, Tilo Grosser, George Cotsarelis, and Garret A. FitzGerald. Science Translational Medicine (2016) Feb 3;8(324) Benchmark analysis of algorithms for determining and quantifying full-length mRNA splice forms from RNA-seq data. Hayer KE, Pizarro A, Lahens NF, Hogenesch JB, Grant GR. Bioinformatics (Oxford, England). (2015); Considerations for RNA-seq analysis of circadian rhythms. Li J, Grant GR, Hogenesch JB, Hughes ME. Methods in enzymology. (2015); 551:349-67. Detection theory in identification of RNA-DNA sequence differences using RNA-sequencing. Toung JM, Lahens N, Hogenesch JB, Grant G. PLoS One. (2014) Nov 14;9(11) IVT-seq reveals extreme bias in RNA-sequencing. Lahens NF, Kavakli IH, Zhang R, Hayer K, Black MB, Dueck H, Pizarro A, Kim J, Irizarry R, Thomas RS, Grant GR, Hogenesch JB. Genome Biol (2014) June 30; 15(6) Erythropoietin upregulation in pulmonary arterial hypertension. Karamanian VA, Harhay M, Grant GR, Palevsky HI, Grizzle WE, et al. Pulmonary circulation. (2014); 4(2):269-79. Myeloid cell microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-1 fosters atherogenesis in mice. Chen L, Yang G, Monslow J, Todd L, Cormode DP, Tang J, Grant GR, Delong JH, Tang SY, Lawson JA, Pure E, Fitzgerald GA. PNAS (2014) May 6;111(18):6828-33 Myeloid COX-2 deletion reduces mammary tumor growth through enhanced cytotoxic T lymphocyte function Edward P. Chen, Nune Markosyan, Emma Connolly, John A. Lawson, Xuanwen Li, Gregory R. Grant, Tilo Grosser, Garret A. FitzGerald and Emer M. Smyth Carcinogenesis (2014) published online March 3rd. Systematic evaluation of spliced aligners for RNA-Seq. Par G. Engstron, Tamara Stejger, Botond Sipos, Gregory R Grant, RGASP Consortium, Nick Goldman, Tim J. Hubbard, Jennifer Harrow, Roderic Guigo, Paul Bertone. Nature Methods (2013) 10, 1185-1191. Transcriptome analyses of the human retina identify unprecedented transcript diversity and 3.5 Mb of novel transcribed sequence via significant alternative splicing and novel genes. Michael H Farkas, Gregory R Grant, Joseph A White, Maria E Sousa, Mark B Consugar and Eric A Pierce. BMC Genomics (2013), 14:486 Cell Selective Cardiovascular Biology of Microsomal Prostaglandin E Synthase-1. Lihong Chen, Guangrui Yang, Xiufeng Xu, Gregory Grant, John A. Lawson, Mohammad Bohlooly-Y, and Garret A. FitzGerald. Circulation (2013), 127: 233-243 Drug Resistance and pseudoresistance; and unintended consequence of Enteric Coated Aspirin. Tilo Grosser, Susanne Fries, John Lawson, Shiv Kapoor, Gregory Grant, Garret A. FitzGerald. Circulation (2013), 127: 377-385 Obesity in mice with adipocyte-specific deletion of clock component Bmal1. Georgios K. Paschos, Salam Ibrahim, Wen-Liang Song, Takeshige Kunieda, Gregory Grant, Teresa M. Reyes, Christopher A. Bradfield, Cheryl H. Vaughan, Michael Eiden, Mojgan Masoodi, Julian L. Griffin, Fenfen Wang, John A. Lawson and Garret A. FitzGerald. Nature Medicine (2012) Nov 11 Transcriptome Analyses to Investigate the Pathogenesis of RNA Splicing Factor Retinitis Pigmentosa. Michael H. Farkas, Greg R. Grant, Eric A. Pierce. Advances in Experimental Medicine and Biology (2012), Volume 723, pp 519-525 Transcriptional Pausing Controls. A Rapid Antiviral Innate Immune Response In Drosophila Jie Xu, Gregory Grant, Leah R. Sabin, Beth Gordesky-Gold, Ari Yasunaga, Mathew Tudor, Sara Cherry. Cell: Host & Microbe (2012) Oct 18;12(4):531-43. Deep sequencing the circadian and diurnal transcriptome of Drosophila brain Hughes ME, Grant GR, Paquin C, Qian J, Nitabach MN. Genome Research (2012) Jul;22(7):1266-81. Vascular COX-2 modulates blood pressure and thrombosis in mice. Yu Y, Ricciotti E, Scalia R, Tang SY, Grant G, Yu Z, Landesberg G, Crichton I, Wu W, Puri E, Funk CD, FitzGerald GA. Sci Transl Med (2012) May 2;4(132) Comparative Analysis of RNA-Seq Alignment Algorithms and the RNA-Seq Unified Mapper (RUM) Gregory R. Grant, Michael H. Farkas, Angel Pizarro, Nicholas Lahens, Jonathan Schug, Brian Brunk, Christian J. Stoeckert Jr, John B. Hogenesch and Eric A. Pierce. Bioinformatics (2011) 2011 Sep 15;27(18):2518-28. Side-Specific Expression of Activated Leukocyte Adhesion Molecule (ALCAM; CD166) in Pathosusceptible Regions of Swine Aortic Valve Endothelium Marie A. Guerraty, Gregory R. Grant, John W. Karanian, Oscar A. Chiesa, William F. Pritchard, Peter F. Davies. The Journal of Heart Valve Disease (2011);20:165-167 Microsomal Prostaglandin E2Synthase-1 Modulates the Response to Vascular Injury. Miao Wang, Kaori Ihida-Stansbury, Devashish Kothapalli, Mathieu C. Tamby, Zhou Yu, Lihong Chen, Gregory Grant, Yan Cheng, John A. Lawson, Richard K. Assoian, Peter L. Jones, PhD; Garret A. FitzGerald, MD Cicrulation (2011) (123:631-639) Our Presentations Introduction to HMMs and some applications to biology Introduction to the Statistics of two-sample comparisons in biolomedical research Introduction to non-parametric methods Introduction to multiple testing in biology Meet the team Director Gregory Robert Grant, PhD I'm the Director of the ITMAT Bioinformatics group, with primary appointment in the Department of Genetics. I have a PhD and B.S. in Mathematics, and a Masters in Computer Science. You may contact me at ggrant@ upenn.edu or (o) 215-573-3736, (c) 267-243-6111 Permanent members Dimitra Sarantopoulou, MSc I’m a bioinformatician and joined the group in 2012. I have a Masters in Bioinformatics and a B.S in Computer Science. My interests are big data analysis and visualization, with specialization in proteomics and RNA-Seq. You may contact me at dimitras at upenn.edu Nicholas Lahens, PhD I'm a senior research coordinator and I joined the group in 2014. I have a PhD in Genomics and Computational Biology, and a B.S. in Bioinformatics and Computer Science. My research interests include circadian rhythms, analysis and visualization of big data, analysis of RNA-seq data, and assessing technical biases in sequencing data. You may contact me at nif at upenn.edu Cris Lawrence, PhD I'm a Senior Application Developer and I joined the group in 2018. I have a PhD in Chemistry and a Masters in Information Systems. You may contact me at criswlawrence at gmail.com Post-Doctoral members Soumyashant (Soum) Nayak, PhD I'm a Postdoc and joined the group in 2016. I completed my Ph.D. in Mathematics at UPenn and my B.Math.(Hons) in Mathematics at the Indian Statistical Institute, Bangalore Centre. You may contact me at nsoum at upenn.edu Thomas Brooks, PhD I'm a Postdoc and joined the group in 2018. I completed my Ph.D. in Riemannian Geometry at Department of Mathematics at UPenn. You may contact me at thobr at upenn.edu Rotation students Rong Guo I was a master's degree student at UPenn when I joined the group for a one semester rotation in Bioinformatics. During my rotation I performed a comparative benchmarking analysis of RNA-Seq alignment methods. Luna Frank-Fischer I was working towards a BS in Mathematics and an MS in Computer Science in Stanford University when I joined the group for a summer internship in 2014. During my intern I developed a tool to identify circularized RNA in RNA-Seq data. Giacomo Baruzzo, PhD I am a Ph.D. student in Bioinformatics and System Biology at University of Padova in Italy. I joined the group as an exchange student in 2015. I am a Software engineer, specialized in computational biology. Elio Scarci I was a rotation student during the summer of 2016. I will graduate from high school in Rome, Italy in 2017. Thomas Campbell I was working on my Ph.D at UPenn when I joined the group for a one semester rotation. During my rotation I studied False Discovery Rate corrections for p-values in highly parallel hypothesis testing such as in differential expression analysis of RNA-Seq. Affiliated members Anand Srinivasan I'm the PMACS Senior IT Project Leader and former member of the ITMAT Bioinformatics Group/PGFI. You may contact me at pmacshpc @ med.upenn.edu Former members Angel Pizarro Former Director of ITMAT Bioinformatics Group. Currently a Technical Business Development Manager at Scientific Computing at Amazon Web Services. Mike DeLaurentis Application developer for bioinformatics tools. Katharina Hayer Bioinformatician specialized in RNA-Seq data analysis. Faith Coldren, PhD Physicist, specialized in data curation for eagle-i. Eun Ji Kim, MSc I'm a bioinformatician and I joined the group in 2013. I have a Masters in Biotechnology (Bioinformatics) from the University of Pennsylvania and a B.A in Biological Science from Smith College. My interests include next generation sequencing data analysis and methods development. Qiwen Hu, PhD I joined the group as a Postdoc in 2016. I finished my PhD training in Bioinformatics at North Carolina State University where I worked on identifying translated regions in Arabidopsis genome using machine learning and statistical approaches. Before coming to U.S., I received MSc in Biochemical and Molecular Biology and B.S. in Computer Science in China. I am interested in applying methods from computer science and statistics to solve biological problems. Peng Song, PhD I obtained my PhD in physics from the University of Pennsylvania, and two honors B.S. degrees, one in physics and one in mathematics, from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. My current works include using mathematical models to solve problems in bioinformatics, and data analysis in genomics. Useful links Institute for Translational Medicine and Therapeutics Department of Systems Pharmacology and Translational Therapeutics Institute of Biomedical Informatics Contact us E-mail Greg Grant at ggrant at upenn.edu Call Greg Grant at (o) 215-573-3736, (c) 267-243-6111 Our address is Smilow Research Building, 10th Floor, 3400 Civic Center Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 19104-5158 (map) Copyright © 2021 ITMAT Bioinformatics © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy