Skip to Content BioInspired Open Close primary navigation Search Search Home PeopleExpand Collapse section Partners ResearchExpand Collapse section Development and Disease Drug Discovery Form and Function Smart Materials Seed Grant Programs FacilitiesExpand Collapse section Syracuse Biomaterials Innovation FacilityExpand Collapse section Instruments Access and Scheduling Policies and Forms EducationExpand Collapse section CAREER Pre-College Program 2022 Graduate and Postdoctoral Development Program CAREER Pre-College Program Pilot 2021 Public OutreachExpand Collapse section Public Webinars News EventsExpand Collapse section Stevenson Biomaterials Lecture Series and Research Poster Session Upcoming Events Past Events Jobs Contact and Information Search Search The BioInspired Institute Addressing global challenges through innovative research. Featured Pages Syracuse Biomaterials Innovation Facility Materials Characterization Core Facility Graduate and Postdoctoral Development Program Development and Disease Controlling living tissues for better health. Smart Materials Accelerating innovation through dynamic and adaptive materials. Form and Function New technologies inspired by animal function. Drug Discovery New approaches for targeting drug-resistant bacteria. Previous slide Next slide BioInspired Syracuse supports research into complex biological systems, developing and designing programmable smart materials to address global challenges in health, medicine and materials innovation. It is an Institute for Material and Living Systems, focusing on four key areas: drug discovery, smart materials, form and function, and development and disease. BioInspired involves faculty from life sciences, engineering, physics and chemistry. News & Headlines Monroe Research Group Receives Multiple Awards at Society for Biomaterials Conference May 11, 2022 Biomedical and chemical engineering Professor Mary Beth Monroe attended the Society for Biomaterials (SFB) 2022 meeting in Baltimore, Maryland, with Ph.D. students Anand Vakil, Henry Beaman, Changling Du and Maryam Ramezani, master’s student Natalie Petryk ’21, G’22 and undergraduate students Caitlyn Greene ’22, Grace Haas ’23, and Avery Gunderson ’23. The national conference included more than… Building Skills, Exchanging Ideas May 9, 2022 When Bianca Andrada ’22 reflects on how her time at Syracuse University influenced her life’s journey, she’ll have plenty of experiences to draw from. She wanted to grow academically and socially, and she did just that. As a bioengineering major in the College of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS) and a member of the Renée… Nangia among Professors Presented With Graduate Education Excellence Awards May 6, 2022 They are inspirational teachers and notable scholars whose work expands the reputation of the University and guides student research paths. They are mentors who become sources of personal and professional support for students who are far from home or having personal or educational challenges during their graduate careers. They’re regarded as faculty members devoted to… Read More News Events “Smart” Tools & Robotics – Today’s Critical Battlefield Aid to Heal Wounded Service Members June 21, 2022 at 1:00 pm – 2:00 pm Join the Institute for Veterans and Military Families and the Syracuse University BioInspired Institute team Dr. Mary Beth Monroe and Dr. Victor Duenas, and learn how their research is impacting the military-connected community. Bioinspired Institute First Annual Symposium October 7, 2022 at 9:30 am – 4:00 pm Life Sciences Complex This symposium is an opportunity to celebrate the amazing work everyone in the BioInspired Institute is doing in the classroom and laboratories. Though extramural visitors will be invited to attend, the focus of the science will be on work done here in Syracuse. We continue to work on the details, but the day will include: Institute-wide poster session Faculty highlight presentations BioInspired programming highlights Remarks by Syracuse University Chancellor Syverud Attendance by BioInspired’s External Advisory Board and other invited guests Luncheon and refreshments Look for a final schedule, RSVP, and poster abstract information as the summer progresses. Full Event Calendar Follow Us on Twitter © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy