Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Biological Sciences Department of Biological Sciences Contact Us YouTube Biological.Sciences@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Welcome Class of 2026 Welcome Back Classes of 2023, 2024, 2025 Major & Minor Course Schedules & Syllabi Current and Upcoming Bio 11 and Foundation Classes First Year Writing Seminars - Biology 7 Biology 11 Foundation Course Offerings Foundation Level Course Syllabi Intermediate Level Course Syllabi Advanced Level Course Syllabi Non-Major Course Syllabi Foreign Study Program Faculty Advisors Teaching Science Fellows Independent Study & the Honors Program Research Opportunities Dartmouth-sponsored Research Programs Funding and Finding an Advisor Transfer Credits Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Ecology, Evolution, Environment & Society Molecular and Cellular Biology Back to Top Nav Research Overview Resources & Research Facilities Life Sciences Light Microscopy Facility Faculty Publications Neukom Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Program Seminars, News & Events News & Events Cramer Seminar Series Chris Reed Memorial Lecture Past Symposia and Conferences Travel Back to Top Nav People SEPA Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major & Minor Course Schedules & Syllabi Current and Upcoming Bio 11 and Foundation Classes First Year Writing Seminars - Biology 7 Biology 11 Foundation Course Offerings Foundation Level Course Syllabi Intermediate Level Course Syllabi Advanced Level Course Syllabi Non-Major Course Syllabi Foreign Study Program Faculty Advisors Teaching Science Fellows Independent Study & the Honors Program Research Opportunities Transfer Credits Share Foundation Course Offerings 2022 - 2023 BIOL 12 - Cell Structure and Function Biology 12 will provide a foundation in the fundamental mechanisms that govern the structure and function of eukaryotic cells. Topics include membrane transport, energy conversion, signal transduction, protein targeting, cell motility and the cytoskeleton, and the cell cycle. Emphasis will be placed on discussion of the experimental basis for understanding cell function. The laboratory section will provide students with hands-on experience in modern laboratory techniques including microscopy, cell fractionation, and protein purification. 22F - Prof. Bickel or Prof. Grotz 23S - Prof. Bezanilla or Prof. He BIOL 13 - Gene Expression and Inheritance This course provides a foundation in genetics and molecular biology. Topics covered include the flow of genetic information from DNA to RNA to protein, transmission of genetic information from one generation to the next and the molecular mechanisms that control gene expression in bacteria and eukaryotes. These concepts will be integrated into a discussion of contemporary problems and approaches in molecular genetics. Laboratories utilize basic molecular biology techniques to further investigate topics discussed in lecture. Open to all students without prerequisite. 22X- Prof. Jack 23W - Prof. Amodeo or Prof. Griffin BIOL 14 - Physiology This course introduces students to the complexity of organisms by studying how their different organ systems strive to maintain internal homeostasis in the face of different environmental demands. The adaptive responses of selected organisms (humans, different animals and plants) to a variety of environmental factors will be studied from the molecular, cell, tissue, organ, and systems level of organization. Some of the topics to be covered include biological control systems (hormones, neurons) and coordinated body functions (circulation, respiration, osmoregulation, digestion). All systems studied will be integrated by analyzing how different organisms adapt to living in extreme environments (deserts, high altitude) or facing environmental demands (navigation, exercise). 22F - Prof. ter Hofstede 23W - Prof. Hill BIOL 15 - Genetic Variation and Evolution This course examines fundamental population-level processes and mechanisms that give rise to diversity of living organisms. The class will explore the interplay of evolutionary forces acting on genetic variation for both single-gene traits and complex traits determined by multiple genes and environmental conditions. Evolution of the human population will serve as the main study system. The class periods will include problem-solving sessions and hands-on activities on experimental evolution, observational data analyses and computer-based evolutionary inferences. Open to all students without prerequisite. Note: BIOL 12, BIOL 13, BIOL 14, BIOL 15, BIOL 16 may be taken in any order. NOTE: As of winter term 2019, this course no longer has a laboratory component and will not meet the SLA requirement. 23W - Prof. Zhaxybayeva BIOL 16 - Ecology This course examines fundamental concepts in the rapidly developing areas of ecology. These topics include the factors that limit the distributions and abundances of organisms, the effects that organisms have on ecosystems, the integration of ecosystems around the globe, and the conservation of species diversity. The class will also explore how the behavior and physiology of individual organisms shape both local and global patterns of distribution and abundance. Laboratories focus on experimental and quantitative analyses of local ecosystems, with an emphasis on field studies. Open to all students without prerequisite. 22F - Prof. Pries 23S - Prof. Ayres Biology 19 - Honors Cell Structure and Function Biology 19 (Honors Cell Structure and Function) is an introduction to cell biology is for first year students with a strong background in biology and chemistry who may be interested in majoring in Biology. This course will discuss fundamental topics, including protein targeting, the cytoskeleton, membrane transport, cellular energetics, the cell cycle, and signal transduction. The course will emphasize experimental strategies to understand eukaryotic cell function, and the laboratory will provide hands-on experience in modern cell biological techniques, including microscopy, cell fractionation, and protein purification. Biology 19 is the prerequisite equivalent of Biology 12. Biology 19 is open only to first-year students and enrollment is limited to 24 students in the Fall of 2022. Invitation to enroll will be based on 1) Performance on the Biology Placement Exam (accessed via Canvas site). 2) Via application (link to application). 22F - Prof. Bezanilla Related DepartmentDepartment of SociologyRelated DepartmentDepartment of Chemistry Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Overview Welcome Class of 2026 Welcome Back Classes of 2023, 2024, 2025 Major & Minor Course Schedules & Syllabi Current and Upcoming Bio 11 and Foundation Classes First Year Writing Seminars - Biology 7 Biology 11 Foundation Course Offerings Foundation Level Course Syllabi Intermediate Level Course Syllabi Advanced Level Course Syllabi Non-Major Course Syllabi Foreign Study Program Faculty Advisors Teaching Science Fellows Independent Study & the Honors Program Research Opportunities Dartmouth-sponsored Research Programs Funding and Finding an Advisor Transfer Credits Graduate Overview Ecology, Evolution, Environment & Society Molecular and Cellular Biology Research Overview Resources & Research Facilities Life Sciences Light Microscopy Facility Faculty Publications Neukom Postdoctoral Fellowship Foreign Study Program Seminars, News & Events News & Events Cramer Seminar Series Chris Reed Memorial Lecture Past Symposia and Conferences Travel People SEPA My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback