Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Biological Sciences Department of Biological Sciences Contact Us YouTube Biological.Sciences@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Welcome Class of 2026 Welcome Back Classes of 2023, 2024, 2025 Major & Minor Course Schedules & Syllabi Current and Upcoming Bio 11 and Foundation Classes First Year Writing Seminars - Biology 7 Biology 11 Foundation Course Offerings Foundation Level Course Syllabi Intermediate Level Course Syllabi Advanced Level Course Syllabi Non-Major Course Syllabi Foreign Study Program Faculty Advisors Teaching Science Fellows Independent Study & the Honors Program Research Opportunities Dartmouth-sponsored Research Programs Funding and Finding an Advisor Transfer Credits Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Ecology, Evolution, Environment & Society Molecular and Cellular Biology Back to Top Nav Research Overview Resources & Research Facilities Life Sciences Light Microscopy Facility Faculty Publications Neukom Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Program Seminars, News & Events News & Events Cramer Seminar Series Chris Reed Memorial Lecture Past Symposia and Conferences Travel Back to Top Nav People SEPA Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Robert Hill |Assistant Professor Academic Appointments Assistant Professor of Biological Sciences Integrative Neuroscience at Dartmouth Graduate Program Molecular and Cellular Biology Graduate Program We study the multicellular interactions between neurons and glia in the brain with a primary focus on the development, plasticity, and regeneration of myelinating oligodendrocytes. Techniques include high-resolution optical imaging in combination with molecular labels, genetic manipulation, and sensors of cellular physiology. Personal Website Contact robert.hill@Dartmouth.edu 603-646-6428 Life Sciences Center, Room 344 HB 6044 Education B.S. Trinity College Ph. D. University of Connecticut Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale School of Medicine Areas of Expertise Neurobiology /Developmental Biology Selected Publications Chapman TW, Olveda GE, Pereira E, and Hill RA. Age and axon-specific forms of cortical remyelination by divergent populations of NG2-glia. bioRxiv (2020) doi.org/10.1101/2020.12.09.414755 Chapman TW and Hill RA. Myelin plasticity in adulthood and aging. Neuroscience Letters. (2020) 134645. PMID: 31765728 Hill RA#, Li AM, and Grutzendler J# Lifelong cortical myelin plasticity and age-related degeneration in the live mammalian brain. Nature Neuroscience. (2018) 21 (5), 683-695 PMID: 29556031, highlighted by Neuron, Nature Reviews Neuroscience and Yale News. #co-corresponding author Hill RA, Damisah EC, Chen F, Kwan AC, and Grutzendler J. Targeted two-photon chemical apoptotic ablation of defined cell types in vivo. Nature Communications. (2017) 8,15837 PMID: 28621306. Damisah EC*, Hill RA*, Tong L, Murray KN, and Grutzendler J. A fluoro-Nissl dye identifies pericytes as distinct vascular mural cells during in vivo brain imaging. Nature Neuroscience. (2017) 20(7), 1023-1032. PMID: 28504673, highlighted by Alzforum *co-first author Hill RA*, Tong L*, Yuan P*, Murikinati S, Gupta S, and Grutzendler J. Regional blood flow in the normal and ischemic brain is controlled by arteriolar smooth muscle cell contractility and not by capillary pericytes. Neuron. (2015) 87(1), 95-110. PMID: 26119027, highlighted by Neuron, Alzforum, and ScienceNews. *co-first author Hill RA and Grutzendler J. In vivo imaging of oligodendrocytes with sulforhodamine 101. Nature Methods. (2014) 11(11), 1082-1083. PMID: 25357236 Hill RA#, Patel KD, Goncalves CM, Grutzendler J, and Nishiyama A# Modulation of oligodendrocyte generation during a critical temporal window after NG2 cell division. Nature Neuroscience. (2014) 17(11), 1518-1527. PMID: 25262495, Faculty of 1000 recommended, #co-corresponding author Schain AJ, Hill RA, and Grutzendler J. Label-free in vivo imaging of myelinated axons in health and disease with spectral confocal reflectance microscopy. Nature Medicine. (2014) 20(4), 443-449. PMID: 24681598 , Faculty of 1000 recommended, highlighted by Nature Methods and Yale News + View more Related Links IND: Integrative Neuroscience at Dartmouth Graduate Program MCB: Molecular and Cellular Biology Graduate Program Neuroscience at Dartmouth bioMT: Institute for Biomolecular Targeting Related DepartmentDepartment of SociologyRelated DepartmentDepartment of Chemistry Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Overview Welcome Class of 2026 Welcome Back Classes of 2023, 2024, 2025 Major & Minor Course Schedules & Syllabi Current and Upcoming Bio 11 and Foundation Classes First Year Writing Seminars - Biology 7 Biology 11 Foundation Course Offerings Foundation Level Course Syllabi Intermediate Level Course Syllabi Advanced Level Course Syllabi Non-Major Course Syllabi Foreign Study Program Faculty Advisors Teaching Science Fellows Independent Study & the Honors Program Research Opportunities Dartmouth-sponsored Research Programs Funding and Finding an Advisor Transfer Credits Graduate Overview Ecology, Evolution, Environment & Society Molecular and Cellular Biology Research Overview Resources & Research Facilities Life Sciences Light Microscopy Facility Faculty Publications Neukom Postdoctoral Fellowship Foreign Study Program Seminars, News & Events News & Events Cramer Seminar Series Chris Reed Memorial Lecture Past Symposia and Conferences Travel People SEPA My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback