Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu CSU Desert Studies Center Main Menu About Show Extended Current conditions About the DSC Staff Mission History CSU Field Stations News / Events Show Extended Events Newsletter In the media Social media DSC blog Education Show Extended Bringing classes Learning tools Public courses Faculty affiliates Research Show Extended Doing research Current and past research Available data Species lists Funding opportunities Visit Show Extended Public visits Natural and cultural resources Facilities Make a reservation Contact Welcome to the CSU Desert Studies Center at Zzyzx Visiting the DSC Click here for information about visiting the DSC without a reservation. Classes, researchers, and other groups are welcome to make a reservation for visits. Due to COVID-19, policies are continually changing for allowable groups, but we will accommodate requests as guidance allows. FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA! CLICK HERE to subscribe to our quarterly newsletter! THE DSC IS GOING VIRTUAL Educators! Looking for virtual teaching materials to give student field experiences? As a member of the Organization of Biological Field Stations , the DSC is helping to bring the field to you . The Virtual Field project provides: A suite of videos from field stations giving students experience finding evidence of ecological and evolutionary concepts Live events giving students opportunities to talk with researchers at their field sites. All resources come with teaching guides . The Virtual Field is supported by the National Science Foundation. WHAT IS ZZYZX? The Desert Studies Center is built within the grounds of the Soda Springs Historic District. Soda Springs, in Chemehuevi territory, has been inhabited for thousands of years. Precious springs have always attracted visitors in the dry Mojave Desert. Never a ghost town! The DSC is a vibrant center for desert education, research, and appreciation. Staff of the DSC are always on site to keep the Center maintained and thriving. Your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames Donate to Desert Studies This site is maintained by Desert Studies Center. Last Published 5/3/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ankelly@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.