Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Biological Sciences Department of Biological Sciences Contact Us YouTube Biological.Sciences@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Welcome Class of 2026 Welcome Back Classes of 2023, 2024, 2025 Major & Minor Course Schedules & Syllabi Current and Upcoming Bio 11 and Foundation Classes First Year Writing Seminars - Biology 7 Biology 11 Foundation Course Offerings Foundation Level Course Syllabi Intermediate Level Course Syllabi Advanced Level Course Syllabi Non-Major Course Syllabi Foreign Study Program Faculty Advisors Teaching Science Fellows Independent Study & the Honors Program Research Opportunities Dartmouth-sponsored Research Programs Funding and Finding an Advisor Transfer Credits Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Ecology, Evolution, Environment & Society Molecular and Cellular Biology Back to Top Nav Research Overview Resources & Research Facilities Life Sciences Light Microscopy Facility Faculty Publications Neukom Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Program Seminars, News & Events News & Events Cramer Seminar Series Chris Reed Memorial Lecture Past Symposia and Conferences Travel Back to Top Nav People SEPA Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Hannah ter Hofstede |Associate Professor Academic Appointments Associate Professor of Biological Sciences Ecology, Evolution, Environment and Society Graduate Program My research is in the field of sensory ecology, which investigates how sensory systems evolve to encode the environmental cues that are crucial for an animal’s survival and reproduction. I am fascinated by how sensory system evolution interacts with the behavior and ecology of animals. Most of my work explores the acoustic world of bats and their insect prey. This type of research requires an interdisciplinary approach combining physiological, behavioral, ecological, and phylogenetic data, obtained both in the lab and in the field. Personal Website Contact Hannah.ter.Hofstede@Dartmouth.edu Clas of 1978 Life Sciences Center, room 026 HB 6044 Education B.Sc. University of Guelph M.Sc. York University Ph.D. University of Toronto Areas of Expertise Sensory Ecology /Neuroethology /Behavioural Ecology Selected Publications ter Hofstede, H. M., Symes, L. B., Martinson, S. J., Robillard, T., Faure, P., Madhusudhana, S., Page, R. A. (2020). Calling songs of Neotropical katydids (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae) from Panama. Journal of Orthoptera Research. Dec 4; 29, 137-201. Symes, L.B., Martinson, S.J., Kernan, C.E., ter Hofstede, H.M. (2020) Sheep in wolves' clothing: prey rely on proactive defences when predator and non-predator cues are similar. Proceedings of the Royal Society B, Biological Sciences. Aug 26;287(1933):20201212 Geipel, I., Kernan, C.E., Litterer, A.S., Carter, G.G., Page, R.A., ter Hofstede, H.M. (2020) Predation risks of signalling and searching: bats prefer moving katydids. Biology Letters. Apr;16(4):20190837. Benavides-Lopez JL, ter Hofstede H, Robillard T. (2020) Novel system of communication in crickets originated at the same time as bat echolocation and includes male-male multimodal communication. Naturwissenschaften. Jan 16;107(1):9 Symes, LB, Wershoven NL, Hoeger L, Ralston JS, Martinson SJ, ter Hofstede HM, Palmer CM (2019) Applying and refining DNA analysis to determine the identity of plant material extracted from the digestive tracts of katydids. PeerJ. May 3;7:e6808. doi: 10.7717/peerj.6808. eCollection 2019. Symes L, Martinson S, Höger LO, Page RA, ter Hofstede HM (2018) From understory to canopy: In situ behavior of Neotropical forest katydids in response to bat echolocation calls. Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution. 2018: a227. Gordon SD, ter Hofstede HM (2018) The influence of bat echolocation call duration and timing on auditory encoding of predator distance in noctuoid moths. Journal of Experimental Biology 221: a171561. ter Hofstede HM, Voigt-Heucke SL, Lang A, Römer H, Page RA, Faure PA, Dechmann DKN (2017) Revisiting adaptations of neotropical katydids (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae) to gleaning bat predation. Neotropical Biodiversity 3: 41-49. Symes LB, Page RA, ter Hofstede HM (2016) Effects of acoustic environment on male calling activity and timing in Neotropical forest katydids. Behav Ecol Sociobiol online first DOI 10.1007/s00265-016-2157-4. ter Hofstede HM, Ratcliffe JM (2016) Evolutionary escalation: the bat-moth arms race. J Exp Biol 219: 1589-1602. ter Hofstede HM, Schoneich S, Robillard T, Hedwig B (2015) Evolution of a communication system by sensory exploitation of startle behavior. Curr Biol 25: 1-8. Falk JJ, ter Hofstede HM, Jones PL, Dixon MM, Faure PA, Kalko EKV, Page RA (2015) Sensory-based niche partitioning in a multiple predator - multiple prey community. Proc R Soc B 282: 20150520. Robillard T, ter Hofstede HM, Orivel J, Vincente NM (2015) Bioacoustics of the Neotropical Eneopterinae (Orthoptera, Grylloidea, Gryllidae). Bioacoustics 24: 123-143. ter Hofstede HM, Goerlitz HR, Ratcliffe JM, Holderied MW, Surlykke A (2013) The simple ears of moths are tuned to the calls of their sympatric bat community. J Exp Biol, doi: 10.1242/jeb.093294. ter Hofstede HM, Goerlitz HR, Montealegre-Z F, Robert D, Holderied MW (2011) Tympanal mechanics and neural responses in the ears of a noctuid moth. Naturwissenschaften 98:1057-1061 Goerlitz HR, ter Hofstede HM, Zeale MRK, Jones G, Holderied MW (2010) An aerial-hawking bat uses stealth echolocation to counter moth hearing. Current Biology 20:1568-1572 ter Hofstede HM, Kalko EKV, Fullard J (2010) Auditory-based defence against gleaning bats in Neotropical katydids (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae). J Comp Physiol A 196:349-358 ter Hofstede HM, Killow J, Fullard J (2009) Gleaning bat echolocation calls do not elicit antipredator behaviour in the Pacific field cricket, Teleogryllus oceanicus (Orthoptera: Gryllidae). J Comp Physiol A 195:769–776 ter Hofstede HM, Fullard JH (2008) The neuroethology of song cessation in response to gleaning bat calls in two species of katydids, Neoconocephalus ensiger and Amblycorypha oblongifolia. J Exp Biol 211:2431-2441 + View more Related Links ter Hofstede Lab Website Related DepartmentDepartment of SociologyRelated DepartmentDepartment of Chemistry Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Overview Welcome Class of 2026 Welcome Back Classes of 2023, 2024, 2025 Major & Minor Course Schedules & Syllabi Current and Upcoming Bio 11 and Foundation Classes First Year Writing Seminars - Biology 7 Biology 11 Foundation Course Offerings Foundation Level Course Syllabi Intermediate Level Course Syllabi Advanced Level Course Syllabi Non-Major Course Syllabi Foreign Study Program Faculty Advisors Teaching Science Fellows Independent Study & the Honors Program Research Opportunities Dartmouth-sponsored Research Programs Funding and Finding an Advisor Transfer Credits Graduate Overview Ecology, Evolution, Environment & Society Molecular and Cellular Biology Research Overview Resources & Research Facilities Life Sciences Light Microscopy Facility Faculty Publications Neukom Postdoctoral Fellowship Foreign Study Program Seminars, News & Events News & Events Cramer Seminar Series Chris Reed Memorial Lecture Past Symposia and Conferences Travel People SEPA My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback