Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Secondary Navigation Navigation Events Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Leadership Faculty Departments Student Resources Newsletter Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Degree Programs Information for Postdoctoral Trainees Research Undergraduate Research Centers, Institutes, and Programs Doing Research at Brown Find a Researcher Innovation & Industry Engagement BioMed Core Facilities Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Financial Aid Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Programs and Initiatives Search Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Departmental Reorganization View new affiliations for faculty and staff formerly in the Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Physiology and Biotechnology. Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section Departmental Reorganization Dear Faculty, Students, and Staff, Over the past year we have been working with faculty and administrators in our Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Physiology, and Biotechnology (MPPB), across the Division, and the University, planning for a strategic restructuring of the department. That restructuring, which will see the department officially close as of June 30, 2021, is the result of careful thought, multiple external reviews, and an exciting view of the future where new scientific and educational collaborations are fostered that pave the way for innovative research discoveries and exciting pedagogic experiences. MPPB faculty had the opportunity to consider new departmental homes which would best suit their scientific interests and provide the greatest potential for collaboration and growth. MPPB staff are joining central offices within the Division that align with the work they were doing in MPPB, including BioMed Research Administration, BioMed Human Resources, and the Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. The new department assignments are below. MPPB has long been home to multiple graduate programs, including our Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology (MPP) PhD program, Biotechnology PhD and master’s programs, and as a joint venture with the School of Engineering, our PhD and master’s programs in Biomedical Engineering (BME). These programs will continue to support our mission of providing outstanding training environments that foster the learning and development of our biomedical scientific scholars. The MPP PhD program will continue under the direction of Anita Zimmerman, PhD. The PhD program in biotechnology will be overseen by Beth Harrington, PhD, while the biotechnology master’s program will continue under the leadership of Jacquelyn Schell, PhD. Our PhD and master’s programs in BME will also continue to thrive under the direction of Kareen Coulombe, PhD, and Marissa Gray, PhD, respectively. MPPB has also been home to outstanding researchers, teachers, and mentors throughout its history. Our faculty has trained some of the best and brightest scientific minds and have made critical discoveries that have deepened our knowledge. I am very proud of all that has been accomplished. I would like to recognize and thank Professors Wayne Bowen and Anita Zimmerman for their long-standing service as chair and vice chair, respectively, of the department. As we look forward to this new organizational structure of the Program in Biology I ask that you take a moment to give your colleagues transferring into new departments a hearty and warm welcome! Sincerely, Jack A. Elias, MD Senior Vice President for Health Affairs Dean of Medicine and Biological Sciences New Faculty and Staff Departments Name Track Type Academic Rank / Title New Department Toni-Marie Achilli Faculty Lecturer Medical Science, Biology Education Moustafa Analoui Adjunct Adjunct Professor Medical Science, Biology Education Laura Bailey Staff Grants and Financial Specialist Center for Gerontology and Health Care Research Jessica Bello Staff Graduate Program Coordinator Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Wayne D. Bowen Faculty Professor Neuroscience Barrett Bready Adjunct Adjunct Assistant Professor Medical Science, Biology Education Anthony B. Comeau Affiliate Research Associate Neuroscience Eric M. Darling Faculty Associate Professor Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Michelle Rose Dawson Faculty Assistant Professor MCB Nicolas Lux Fawzi Faculty Associate Professor MCB Vera C. Fonseca Staff Laboratory Manager Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Stacia Furtado Affiliate Visiting Scholar Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Deepraj Ghosh Faculty Assistant Professor (Research) MCB Moses Goddard Adjunct Adjunct Associate Professor Medical Science, Biology Education Marissa Lynne Gray Faculty Assistant Professor (Research) Medical Science, Biology Education Hilary Elaine Nicholson Gross Affiliate Visiting Scientist Neuroscience Chi-Ming Hai Faculty Emeritus Professor Emeritus of Medical Science Edward Hawrot Faculty Professor Medical Science, Biology Education Diane Hoffman-Kim Faculty Associate Professor Neuroscience Daniel Holmander Adjunct Adjunct Assistant Professor Medical Science, Biology Education Diana Horrigan Faculty Senior Lecturer Medical Science, Biology Education Blanche C. Ip Faculty Assistant Professor (Research) Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Victoria Johnson Staff Research Assistant MCB Yong Jong Adjunct Adjunct Assistant Professor Medical Science, Biology Education Hae Won Kim Affiliate Visiting Scholar Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Danya M. Lavin Affiliate Visiting Scholar Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Liane Livi Staff Senior Research Assistant Neuroscience David Livingston Adjunct Adjunct Associate Professor Medical Science, Biology Education Donald Marsh Faculty Professor (Research) Medical Science, Biology Education John Marshall Faculty Professor MCB Edith Mathiowitz Faculty Professor Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Kristin McCutcheon Staff Grant and Finance Manager Brown Population Studies and Training Center Crystal Miller Staff Administrative Coordinator BioMed Human Resources Jeffrey R. Morgan Faculty Professor Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Mandar T. Naik Faculty Assistant Professor (Research) MCB Elena Oancea Faculty Professor Neuroscience Francesco S. Pagano Staff Research Assistant Neuroscience Mengia Pedotti Faculty Assistant Professor (Research) MCB Elly Peimer Staff Assistant Director Brown Population Studies and Training Center William Renken Staff Research Assistant Neuroscience Tanya C. Sanders Affiliate Investigator Medical Science, Biology Education Jacquelyn Schell Faculty Assistant Professor (Research) Medical Science, Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Jeffrey Scott Adjunct Adjunct Professor Medical Science, Biology Education Andrea J. Sobieraj Affiliate Senior Teaching Associate Medical Science, Biology Education Joshaya Trotman Staff Research Assistant Neuroscience Melodie Vincenty Staff Graduate Program Coordinator Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Szu-Huan Wang Affiliate Research Associate MCB Anita L. Zimmerman Faculty Professor MMI Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Leadership Faculty Departments Student Resources Newsletter Education Undergraduate Education Graduate Degree Programs Information for Postdoctoral Trainees Research Undergraduate Research Centers, Institutes, and Programs Doing Research at Brown Find a Researcher Innovation & Industry Engagement BioMed Core Facilities Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Financial Aid Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Programs and Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Events Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Departmental Reorganization Open details for Departmental Reorganization Bookmark this Page