Skip to main content Left arrow Barnard.edu Open Search Close Our Department People Back Faculty & Staff Contact Us Curriculum & Courses Back AY22–23 Major Requirements Minor Requirements Course Listings Recommended for First Years Related Departments & Majors Course Offerings Archive Opportunities Back Undergraduate Research Scholarships & Programs Research Corner Seminar & Coffee Hour Speaker Series Student Resources Back Academic Resources Biodiversity Department Facilities Major Advising Alumni in Biology News & Events Back News Events Employment Back Student Employment Faculty & Staff Positions Left arrow Barnard.edu Search for: Search All of Barnard.edu Biology Home Page Biology at Barnard The mission of the Biology major is to provide students with a broad education in biology. To this end, students are offered a range of lecture courses that span the molecular, physiological, and ecological levels of organization. Students also complete laboratory courses that help them learn how to design and test hypotheses, use cutting edge equipment, and interpret data. Learn More About the Major Today! Meet Our Faculty! Planning to declare a major in biology? As of spring 2022, in our department, students are assigned a major advisor but may suggest one on Slate if they are accepting advisees. The Associate Chair approves major declarations and will assign an advisor using Slate. The Biology Department faculty and staff aim to provide students with a rigorous biological education in a supportive environment across the many areas of biology in which we specialize. We aim to help students develop scientific literacy through our lecture and laboratory courses as well as through well-rounded research experiences. By supporting faculty and student research, our department provides students with the opportunity to synthesize co-authored, peer-reviewed scientific publications. Meet Our Advisors Today! Navigating the Major Need help planning out your Biology major? Whether you want to pursue a General Biology major or specialize in one of our four tracks, the resources below will help guide you! Major Advising Documents What We Offer Biology explores the structure, function, and evolution of diverse living systems. It addresses some of the most important issues of our time—genetic engineering, stem cell research, obesity, cancer, and the effects of global warming. Majoring in Biology prepares students to pursue a career in research, teaching, or the allied health sciences. It is also relevant to careers as diverse as environmental policy, biotechnology, law, public health, and creative writing. There are five possible ways to complete a major within Biology. A student can obtain a General Biology Major or may complete one of the four tracks to specialize in a level of Biological organization: Computational, Cellular & Molecular, Physiological & Organismal, or Ecological & Evolutionary. General Biology Cellular & Molecular (track) Ecological & Evolutionary (track) Physiological & Organismal (track) Computational (track) Biology Minor Departmental Listserv Want to join our listserv to stay up-to-date with departmental news and events? Email the Department Administrator with your class year and request to join our email list today! Contact the Department Administrator Curriculum & Courses AY22–23 Course Offerings Want to know what courses we're offering this year? Click on the link below to see our fall and spring courses! Course Offerings Opportunities Seminar & Coffee Hour Speaker Series Created in the fall of 2020 and sponsored by the department's Anti-Racism Working Group, this Seminar & Coffee Hour Speaker Series hosted by the Barnard College Department of Biological Sciences aims to highlight and uplift the voices of BIPOC and other underrepresented STEM professionals. Our goal is to have distinguished scientists with diverse backgrounds and interests talk about their research as a way of inspiring our students to think broadly about their own futures. Read More Undergraduate Research Research in New York City We strongly encourage students to get involved in research during the summer, academic year, or both. For many students, research is one of the most intellectually rewarding experiences at Barnard. In the summer, many students participate in the Summer Research Institute (SRI) and receive a stipend for their work, while during the academic year, they receive credit for their work. Visit our Research Corner today! Undergraduate Research Symposium 2022 The culmination of a yearlong research project by students enrolled in Guided Research & Seminar and Senior Thesis Research, this year's Symposium will showcase the work of 29 students presenting their findings across biological disciplines on Tuesday, May 3rd in the Diana Center Event Oval. Seniors will give 15-minute thesis presentations, followed by Guided Research students presenting lightning talks and posters. The program containing the Zoom link and a how-to-use Zoom guide are available at the link below for those joining virtually. Symposium 2022 News Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in Science As part of a team of staff and faculty, Melissa E. Flores ’16 helped Barnard’s Biology Department redesign its curriculum to ensure inclusivity for students from all backgrounds. #BarnardCelebratesWomensHistoryMonth March 14, 2022 Professor Allison Lopatkin Receives Research Grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for Collaborative Project with Nova Southeastern University March 11, 2022 Biology Ph.D. Candidate Amanda Elyssa Ruiz ’17 The 2021 Gilliam fellow offers insight into her studies in pathobiology and shares how Barnard helped shape her career in lab-based scientific research. #BarnardYearOfScience March 4, 2022 More News Site Footer 1203 Altschul Hall 3009 Broadway New York, NY 10027 | Phone. 212.854.2437 | Fax. 212.280.2011 Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University