Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Biological Sciences Department of Biological Sciences Contact Us YouTube Biological.Sciences@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Welcome Class of 2026 Welcome Back Classes of 2023, 2024, 2025 Major & Minor Course Schedules & Syllabi Current and Upcoming Bio 11 and Foundation Classes First Year Writing Seminars - Biology 7 Biology 11 Foundation Course Offerings Foundation Level Course Syllabi Intermediate Level Course Syllabi Advanced Level Course Syllabi Non-Major Course Syllabi Foreign Study Program Faculty Advisors Teaching Science Fellows Independent Study & the Honors Program Research Opportunities Dartmouth-sponsored Research Programs Funding and Finding an Advisor Transfer Credits Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Ecology, Evolution, Environment & Society Molecular and Cellular Biology Back to Top Nav Research Overview Resources & Research Facilities Life Sciences Light Microscopy Facility Faculty Publications Neukom Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Program Seminars, News & Events News & Events Cramer Seminar Series Chris Reed Memorial Lecture Past Symposia and Conferences Travel Back to Top Nav People SEPA Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Major & Minor Course Schedules & Syllabi Foreign Study Program Faculty Advisors Teaching Science Fellows Independent Study & the Honors Program Research Opportunities Transfer Credits Study Opportunities Independent Research Courses Share Independent Study & the Honors Program Biology 95, 96, 97, and 98 are independent research courses generally taken by juniors and seniors majoring or minoring (Biology 95 only) in Biological Sciences under the direction of a Biology Faculty member. Faculty members in other departments at Dartmouth or the Geisel School of Medicine may supervise the research, but a co-advisor in the Biology Department is also required. Undergraduate Research in Biology: In this video, Alana Bernys '20 talks about finding a lab, research for credit and completing an honors thesis. Researcher Rori Stuart '22 working in Prof. Carey Nadell's lab. PreviousNext Biology 95/96 and 97/98 Independent Research Courses One Biology independent study course (Biology 95-98) may count as one of the unspecified courses within any major, but you must apply and be accepted before you enroll. Biology 95/96 is open to Biology majors and minors pursuing independent research with a Dartmouth faculty member. Biology majors who perform exceptionally well in Biology 95 and want to continue their research without entering the honors program may apply to take Biology 96. Those who wish to enter the Honors program (below) should apply for Biology 97/98. Students receiving credit for undergraduate research must have given evidence of their ability to conduct independent study, as judged by a review of their application by the members of the Undergraduate Committee. Prerequisites for Biology 95/96 are: At least three Biology courses numbered 11 or above, a 2.67 average in previous biology courses, and permission of the Undergraduate Committee and the supervising instructor. Prerequisites for Biology 97/98 are: At least two Biology courses numbered 20 or above, a 3.00 average in previous biology courses, and permission of the Undergraduate Committee and the supervising instructor. For both Biology 95/96 and 97/98, the application and research proposal must be submitted at least one month prior to the beginning of the term in which the course is to be elected. If you have any questions about the programs or the application process, please contact Professor Natasha Grotz. Tips for finding a research advisor Peruse Dartmouth faculty web pages to find areas of research that may interest you. Remember that your choices are not limited to research labs in the Biology department, however, the lab must be at Dartmouth. Talk with students you may know who have experience working in labs at Dartmouth. Ask about their experiences and recommendations. Contact the faculty member whose research interests you by email. You will need to explain that you are interested in a research for credit program. Be sure to include any previous lab experience and courses you have completed. If you have any questions about the programs or the application process, please contact Professor Natasha Grotz. BIOLOGY 95, 96, 97, and 98 Application and Requirements Download the information and application form for BIOL 95, 96, 97 and 98. Please follow all instructions carefully. Note that the application for Biology 95/96 or 97/98 must be submitted to the Undergraduate Committee at least one month before the beginning of the term in which you wish to take the course. Late applications are rarely accepted and then only under extraordinary circumstances certified in writing by the research advisor. A student should meet with his or her faculty research advisor(s) and discuss the proposed research well in advance of the term in which Biology 95/96 or 97/98 is to be taken for credit. A draft of the research proposal should be discussed with the advisor(s) before filing the application form, since the description of the proposed research project and budget must be approved by the advisor(s) before the application can be considered by the Undergraduate Committee. After an application for Bio 95/96 or 97/98 is approved, the Undergraduate Committee will grant instructor permission to register for the course using the Banner system. You will receive an automated email instructing you to register for the course. If you have any questions about the programs or the application process, please contact Professor Natasha Grotz. Related DepartmentDepartment of SociologyRelated DepartmentDepartment of Chemistry Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Overview Welcome Class of 2026 Welcome Back Classes of 2023, 2024, 2025 Major & Minor Course Schedules & Syllabi Current and Upcoming Bio 11 and Foundation Classes First Year Writing Seminars - Biology 7 Biology 11 Foundation Course Offerings Foundation Level Course Syllabi Intermediate Level Course Syllabi Advanced Level Course Syllabi Non-Major Course Syllabi Foreign Study Program Faculty Advisors Teaching Science Fellows Independent Study & the Honors Program Research Opportunities Dartmouth-sponsored Research Programs Funding and Finding an Advisor Transfer Credits Graduate Overview Ecology, Evolution, Environment & Society Molecular and Cellular Biology Research Overview Resources & Research Facilities Life Sciences Light Microscopy Facility Faculty Publications Neukom Postdoctoral Fellowship Foreign Study Program Seminars, News & Events News & Events Cramer Seminar Series Chris Reed Memorial Lecture Past Symposia and Conferences Travel People SEPA My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback