Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Biological Science Main Navigation People Undergraduates Graduate Students Events Facilities Employment Contact Us Social Media Careers Announcements and Opportunities Message from the Chair, Dr. Merri Lynn Casem Welcome to the website of the Department of Biological Science at Cal State Fullerton. We offer an undergraduate Bachelor’s degree (B.S.) in Biological Science and a thesis-based Master of Science (M.S.) degree in Biology. We are dedicated to educating the individual student using active-learning, inquiry-based approaches. The undergraduate curriculum provides all biology majors with broad exposure to fundamental biological principles and depth of knowledge within a specialized area of concentration chosen by the student. Our program is distinctive in the region in the number of excellent opportunities that are available for faculty-mentored undergraduate research and a commitment to integrating teaching and research. Our mission is to help guide students to acquire the skills, develop the attitudes, and master the information necessary to continue their education, obtain desirable employment in biology-related careers, and be productive citizens. Our graduate degrees prepare students for entry into Ph.D. and health-professions programs, research careers with governmental and non-governmental agencies and in the private sector, and teaching at the two-year college level. Contact Us Email: biologicalscience@fullerton.edu IMPORTANT INFORMATION Biology courses will be taught in fall 2021 as in-person, but some courses will remain in virtual format For virtual instruction, please confirm with the instructor whether your class will be meeting synchronously or asynchronously at the days and times shown in the schedule. YOUR CLASSES WILL NOT BE MEETING IN THE ROOMS SHOWN ON THE SCHEDULE. Major Advising for first semester freshman will be virtual. An email will be sent to your CSUF email account with important information about advising and registration. Go to the College of NSM’s website for First Semester Freshmen for more information New Transfer students need to sign up for a virtual advising session. An email will be sent to your CSUF email account with important information. Go to the College of NSM’s website for Transfer Students for more information This site is maintained by Biological Science. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact mcuajungco@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.