Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Biological Sciences Department of Biological Sciences At Dartmouth biology, you'll find diverse disciplines, prestigious faculty with a breadth of experience in biological processes, and next-generation resources and equipment. Here, undergraduates, graduate students, and faculty collaborate on laboratory research, fieldwork, and publications with real-world application. We are committed to providing students with a broad exposure to biological processes and systems and a deep understanding of biology at environmental, organismal, cellular, and molecular levels. Contact Us YouTube Biological.Sciences@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail more Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Welcome Class of 2026 Welcome Back Classes of 2023, 2024, 2025 Major & Minor Course Schedules & Syllabi Current and Upcoming Bio 11 and Foundation Classes First Year Writing Seminars - Biology 7 Biology 11 Foundation Course Offerings Foundation Level Course Syllabi Intermediate Level Course Syllabi Advanced Level Course Syllabi Non-Major Course Syllabi Foreign Study Program Faculty Advisors Teaching Science Fellows Independent Study & the Honors Program Research Opportunities Dartmouth-sponsored Research Programs Funding and Finding an Advisor Transfer Credits Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Ecology, Evolution, Environment & Society Molecular and Cellular Biology Back to Top Nav Research Overview Resources & Research Facilities Life Sciences Light Microscopy Facility Faculty Publications Neukom Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Program Seminars, News & Events News & Events Cramer Seminar Series Chris Reed Memorial Lecture Past Symposia and Conferences Travel Back to Top Nav People SEPA Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Biology Honors Presentations This year's Biology Honors Thesis students seminars will begin on May 18th. Click on the above image for the schedule. Max Teszler is awarded a Goldwater Scholarship Maxwell Teszler '23 has received a Goldwater Scholarship to investigate how plants take up iron. Guerinot Lab Identifies Proteins Involved in Photoprotection during Iron Deficiency Prof. Mary Lou Guerinot, Dr. Garo Akmakjian and Nabila Riaz have discovered that IRL3 and PYE provide iron-deficient plants protection from photodamage. Two Biology Majors Inducted into Phi Beta Kappa this Fall Dakota C. Ma '22 and Connor P. Morris ' 22 were inducted into Phi Beta Kappa. Study Solves Textbook Problem: How Cells Know Their Size Dartmouth 'basic science' research could unlock complex medical challenges. 'Beautiful Collaboration' Advances Research on Freshwater Blooms A Dartmouth-led study urges more complete study of harmful cyanobacteria. Emma Esterman '20: Senior Thesis Work Published Emma Esterman '20, her lab mates in Prof. Olga Zhaxybayeva's lab and collaborators at the National Institutes of Health have published a paper that includes the research Emma completed for her senior thesis. Prof. Carey Nadell Receives a Simons Foundation Award Prof. Carey Nadell is the recipient of an Early Career Investigator Award in Marine Microbial Ecology from the Simons Foundation for his work on biofilms. What is it Like to Set-up a New Lab During a Pandemic? Professor Amanda Amodeo joined the biology department as an assistant professor in July 2020. She shared her experience setting up an new lab during a pandemic in an article in the Journal of Cell Biology. Pandemic Sparks Innovation At N.H.'s Influential Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest In a New Hampshire Public Radio story, Professor Matt Ayres talks about finding new ways to work at Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest during the pandemic. Recent Publications view all Beyond bulk: Density fractions explain heterogeneity in global soil carbon abundance and persistence Katherine Heckman, Caitlin E. Hicks Pries, Corey R. Lawrence, Craig Rasmussen, Susan E. Crow, et al. Global Change Biology Age and axon-specific forms of cortical remyelination by divergent populations of NG2-glia Robert Hill, Timothy Chapman, Genaro Olveda, Elizabeth Pereira bioRxiv Sheep in wolves' clothing: prey rely on proactive defences when predator and non-predator cues are similar. Hannah ter Hofstede, Laurel Symes, Sharon Martinson, Ciara Kernan Proceedings of the Royal Society B, Biological Sciences Using Respiration Quotients to Track Changing Sources of Soil Respiration Seasonally and with Experimental Warming Caitlin E. Hicks Pries, Margaret S. Torn, Alon Angert, Cristina Castanha, Boaz Hilman Biogeosciences events view all Jun 03 1:00PM EEES Grad. Program Thesis Haldeman Hall 41 (Kreindler Conference Hall) Grant Gutierrez will present his PhD thesis: Navigating Acceptable Risk: Environmental Justice and the Politics of Ecological Improvement in Puget Sound. Related DepartmentDepartment of SociologyRelated DepartmentDepartment of Chemistry Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Overview Welcome Class of 2026 Welcome Back Classes of 2023, 2024, 2025 Major & Minor Course Schedules & Syllabi Current and Upcoming Bio 11 and Foundation Classes First Year Writing Seminars - Biology 7 Biology 11 Foundation Course Offerings Foundation Level Course Syllabi Intermediate Level Course Syllabi Advanced Level Course Syllabi Non-Major Course Syllabi Foreign Study Program Faculty Advisors Teaching Science Fellows Independent Study & the Honors Program Research Opportunities Dartmouth-sponsored Research Programs Funding and Finding an Advisor Transfer Credits Graduate Overview Ecology, Evolution, Environment & Society Molecular and Cellular Biology Research Overview Resources & Research Facilities Life Sciences Light Microscopy Facility Faculty Publications Neukom Postdoctoral Fellowship Foreign Study Program Seminars, News & Events News & Events Cramer Seminar Series Chris Reed Memorial Lecture Past Symposia and Conferences Travel People SEPA My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback