Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Biological Sciences Department of Biological Sciences Contact Us YouTube Biological.Sciences@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Welcome Class of 2026 Welcome Back Classes of 2023, 2024, 2025 Major & Minor Course Schedules & Syllabi Current and Upcoming Bio 11 and Foundation Classes First Year Writing Seminars - Biology 7 Biology 11 Foundation Course Offerings Foundation Level Course Syllabi Intermediate Level Course Syllabi Advanced Level Course Syllabi Non-Major Course Syllabi Foreign Study Program Faculty Advisors Teaching Science Fellows Independent Study & the Honors Program Research Opportunities Dartmouth-sponsored Research Programs Funding and Finding an Advisor Transfer Credits Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Ecology, Evolution, Environment & Society Molecular and Cellular Biology Back to Top Nav Research Overview Resources & Research Facilities Life Sciences Light Microscopy Facility Faculty Publications Neukom Postdoctoral Fellowship Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Program Seminars, News & Events News & Events Cramer Seminar Series Chris Reed Memorial Lecture Past Symposia and Conferences Travel Back to Top Nav People SEPA Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Imaging Facility Equipment Zeiss LSM880 with Airyscan The Zeiss LSM 880 has two multi-alkali photomultiplier tubes, a GaAsP detector and a transmitted light detector. The addition of the Airyscan provides another GaAsP that may be used when using the Airyscan capability or used as a fourth fluorescence detector in the confocal mode. The system has six laser lines (405 nm, 458 nm, 488 nm, 514 nm, 561 nm and 633 nm). For live-cell imaging, the system has motorized z-drive, an environmental chamber and stage incubator for controlling temperature, humidity and CO2. airyscan_0.jpg Equipment Nikon A1R SI Confocal The Nikon A1RSi confocal microscope is set up on a Nikon Eclipse Ti inverted microscope stand. The system has four laser lines (405 nm, 488 nm, 561 nm and 640 nm), four photomultiplier tubes for fluorescence, a photomultiplier tube for transmitted light imaging and a spectral detector. In addition to the galvano scanner, the system has a resonant scanner and heated stage for live-cell imaging. NIS Elements is used for multi-dimensional imaging and analysis. A Pico-Quant LSM upgrade kit for FLIM and FCS has been added to the system. Equipment Nikon Total Internal Reflected Fluorescence (TIRF) System The TIRF system is set up on a Nikon Ecliipse Ti microscope. It has two Andor 897 EMCCD cameras, four laser lines (405 nm, 488 nm, 561 nm and 640 nm) and a FRAP module. The system is run with NIS Elements. Equipment Andor Spinning Disk Confocal The Andor W1 Spinning Disk Confocal is set up on a Nikon Eclipse Ti inverted microscope stand with Perfect Focus. The system has six laser lines: 405 nm, 445 nm, 488 nm, 560 nm, 637 nm and 685 nm. Two Andor Zyla cameras allow for two channel simultaneous image capture. The microscope has an ASI MS-2000 stage that provides fast, repeatable multi-positional imaging. The spinning disk has a Tokai Hit stage incubator for live-cell imaging. The system is equipped with an Andor Mosaic photoactivation and photobleaching system as well as a MicroPoint for laser ablation. Equipment Olympus FVMPE-RV Multiphoton System This system is set up on a BX63 upright microscope frame with a dual-line Insight 1040/680-1300nm laser and 458 nm diode laser. It has a resonant scanner, encoded Prior z deck and objective piezo. There are two multi-alkali photomultipliers and two, GaAsP detectors in the epi-light path as well as a forward detector. A PicoQuant FCS, FCCS and FLIM upgrade has been added to the system. The system is run with FluoView software. Equipment Nikon Inverted Microscope with Yokogawa W1 spinning disk and wide-field fluorescence and DIC The Nikon Eclipse Ti-E microscope stand has a Yokogawa, two-camera, CSU-W1 spinning disk system with a Nikon LU-N4 laser launch that includes 405 nm, 488 nm, 561 nm and 640 nm lasers. The system has Photometrics Prime BSI sCMOS cameras. The microscope stand has Perfect Focus and is equipped with an ASI MS-2000 motorized stage with a piezo Z-drive as well as a Tokai Hit stage top incubation system. Additionally, the microscope has an Andor Zyla camera for wide-field fluorescence and transmitted light imaging. Equipment Fluorescence Stereo Microscope The Nikon SMZ1500 is equipped for fluorescence (GFP and mCherry). The microscope has a Spot Insight color camera with Spot software. Image analysis Arivis Vision 4D Arivis Vision 4D software works with 2D, 3D and 4D image data sets from most image formats and can easily manage large data sets. It is may be used for rendering, stitching, alignment and data analysis including cell segmentation, tracking, annotations, quantitative measurements and statistics. Image analysis Imaris Workstation The facility has an Imaris workstation with the following Imaris components: Measurement Pro, ImarisTrack, ImarisColoc, ImarisXT, ImarisCell, ImarisVantage and Filament Tracker. The workstation also has MatLab and has ImageJ installed. Image analysis NIS Elements Workstation with Deconvolution The facility has an NIS Elements analysis workstation. In addition to the standard NIS Elements features, this workstation is set up for deconvolution. Image analysis Zen Blue, Zen Black, NIS Elements and ImageJ Workstation The facility has an analysis workstation with Zen Blue, Zen Black, NIS Elements and ImageJ. Personnel Faculty Director - Sharon E. Bickel, Ph.D., Professor of Biological Sciences Facility Manager - Ann Lavanway Training The resources of the Life Sciences Center Imaging Facility are available to all members of the Dartmouth community and to researchers outside of Dartmouth. All users of the equipment must be trained before using the equipment. Please email Ann Lavanway (ann.m.lavanwayATDartmouth.edu). Overview Resources & Research Facilities Life Sciences Light Microscopy Facility Imaging Facility Publications 2015 - 2022 Faculty Publications Neukom Postdoctoral Fellowship Share Related DepartmentDepartment of SociologyRelated DepartmentDepartment of Chemistry Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Overview Welcome Class of 2026 Welcome Back Classes of 2023, 2024, 2025 Major & Minor Course Schedules & Syllabi Current and Upcoming Bio 11 and Foundation Classes First Year Writing Seminars - Biology 7 Biology 11 Foundation Course Offerings Foundation Level Course Syllabi Intermediate Level Course Syllabi Advanced Level Course Syllabi Non-Major Course Syllabi Foreign Study Program Faculty Advisors Teaching Science Fellows Independent Study & the Honors Program Research Opportunities Dartmouth-sponsored Research Programs Funding and Finding an Advisor Transfer Credits Graduate Overview Ecology, Evolution, Environment & Society Molecular and Cellular Biology Research Overview Resources & Research Facilities Life Sciences Light Microscopy Facility Faculty Publications Neukom Postdoctoral Fellowship Foreign Study Program Seminars, News & Events News & Events Cramer Seminar Series Chris Reed Memorial Lecture Past Symposia and Conferences Travel People SEPA My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback