Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Search Menu Site Navigation Home About the Division Leadership Strategic Plan Departments Affiliated Hospitals Contact Us Research Core Facilities Centers, Institutes, and Programs Offices and Services Diversity Search Division of Biology and Medicine Diversity Brown's academic mission is grounded in a commitment to the collective work of cultivating a diverse and inclusive community. Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan The Diversity Action Plan (DIAP) is Brown University’s comprehensive strategic plan to create and sustain the diverse and inclusive community. Learn more Climate Surveys Campus Diversity Dashboard Diversity Brown's academic mission is grounded in a commitment to the collective work of cultivating a diverse and inclusive community. The Division of Biology and Medicine, in keeping with Brown University’s mission, recognizes, supports, develops, and maintains a diverse faculty, workforce, and student population. Dimensions of diversity include, but are not limited to, race, ethnicity, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran status, age, and socioeconomic and geographic background. Our commitment ensures respect for diversity, broad representation at all levels, and consistency and compliance with Brown’s policies on non-discrimination. Multicultural perspectives are critical to the success of the Division by enriching educational understanding, fostering outreach in clinical care settings, and enhancing trust in research. Diversity among faculty, staff, and students creates a greater number of role models, broadens perspectives, and combats negative and inappropriate stereotyping. Institutional diversity improves outreach to the community, enhances trust and communication, and facilitates development of culturally appropriate clinical and research programs. The Division of Biology and Medicine strives to create and maintain an environment that welcomes and respects individuals with diverse perspectives, experiences, and backgrounds. Diversity and Inclusion in Biology and Medicine The following offices in BioMed provide resources and support by sponsoring programming and events related to diversity and inclusion in the Division. Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs (ODMA) The Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University promotes social responsibility, active engagement, and the well being of our communities in the pursuit of health equity. Office of Women in Medicine and Science The Office of Women in Medicine and Science (OWIMS) at Brown is dedicated to the advancement of women faculty, residents, students and trainees. University Resources Our campus partners support diversity, equity, and inclusion in all aspects of University life. Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity The Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) helps lead inclusion efforts across campus through programming and oversight of policies and procedures related to diversity and inclusion. Title IX and Gender Equity Office The Title IX and Gender Equity Office provides resources on assault prevention, education, reporting, and other matters of sexual and gender-based harassment. Initiative to Maximize Student Development The Initiative to Maximize Student Development at Brown provides research training support for students in underrepresented groups to significantly increase the participation of these groups within the fields of biomedical, behavioral and physical sciences. Student Accessibility Services Student Accessibility Services SAS coordinates and facilitates services for students (including graduate students) and visitors with medical, physical, psychological, and learning disabilities. Employee Accommodation Services University Human Resources manages accommodation requests for employees with disabilities. Community News News from Brown Powered by students, focused on patients — assisting Rhode Islanders through Connect for Health March 7, 2022 As volunteers with Lifespan’s Connect for Health program, dozens of Brown students each year link patients in need with available resources, with the ultimate goal of improving physical health and well-being. Read Article Open details for Powered by students, focused on patients — assisting Rhode Islanders through Connect for Health News from Brown At community health clinic in Providence, improving access and care for LGBTQ+ patients February 11, 2022 Founded by Brown faculty members Dr. Amy Nunn and Dr. Philip Chan, Open Door Health is lowering barriers to health care by providing culturally congruent LGBTQ+-focused care. Read Article Open details for At community health clinic in Providence, improving access and care for LGBTQ+ patients News from Brown Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects July 8, 2021 A study that looked at 10-year outcomes of the Initiative to Maximize Student Development showed that it increased diversity within academic programs and prepared underrepresented students for successful careers in STEM. Read Article Open details for Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan The Diversity Action Plan (DIAP) is Brown University’s comprehensive strategic plan to create and sustain the diverse and inclusive community. Learn more Climate Surveys Campus Diversity Dashboard Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About the Division Leadership Strategic Plan Departments Affiliated Hospitals Contact Us Research Core Facilities Centers, Institutes, and Programs Offices and Services Diversity This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Diversity Open details for Diversity Bookmark this Page