Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine BioMed Core Facilities Search Menu Site Navigation Home About BioMed Core Facilities Cores RI Search Division of Biology and Medicine BioMed Core Facilities BioMed Core Facilities Serving as centers of intellectual exchange and collaboration, the technology-focused BioMed Core Facilities provide a broad spectrum of investigators access to cutting edge instrumentation, current technologies, and expert consultation to support research and discovery at Brown University. BioMed Core Facilities Serving as centers of intellectual exchange and collaboration, the technology-focused BioMed Core Facilities provide a broad spectrum of investigators access to cutting edge instrumentation, current technologies, and expert consultation to support research and discovery at Brown University. BioMed Research Operations Office The BioMed Research Operations Office oversees the business operations for the core facilities including budgets, billing, purchasing, reporting and rate setting. Visit Page Open details for BioMed Research Operations Office Bioimaging Facility The Leduc Bioimaging Facility provides equipment and training dedicated to high-resolution imaging in the life sciences. Visit Page Open details for Bioimaging Facility Drosophila Media Facility The Drosophila Media Facility is dedicated to providing investigators with high quality media for Drosophila research. Visit Page Open details for Drosophila Media Facility Flow Cytometry and Cell Sorter Facility The Flow Cytometry & Cell Sorter Facility is a full service facility that provides instrumentation, expertise and access to state-of-the-art flow cytometry and cell sorting instrumentation. Visit Page Open details for Flow Cytometry and Cell Sorter Facility Genomics Facility The Genomics Core Facility provides state-of-the-art genomics equipment and services including Next Generation Sequencing, DNA/RNA shearing, sample QC, Affymetrix microarray, qPCR services as well as other self service instrumentation. Visit Page Open details for Genomics Facility Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Research Facility The Brown University MRI Research Facility (MRF), provides infrastructure and support to facilitate research and educational activities using magnetic resonance imaging technology. The centerpiece of the facility is a state-of-the-art Siemens 3 Tesla PRISMA scanner, equipped with 64 receiver channels for significant gains in signal-to-noise ratio and acquisition speed. Visit Page Open details for Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Research Facility Molecular Pathology Core The Molecular Pathology Core provides all-inclusive histology and histopathology services, equipment and training. The core houses an automated tissue processor, a paraffin embedding center, automated microtomes, a cryostat, a vibratome and a multiheaded light microscope. Visit Page Open details for Molecular Pathology Core Proteomics Facility The Proteomics Core provides protein and proteomic analysis instrumentation for protein identification, characterization, and quantification. Visit Page Open details for Proteomics Facility Rhode Island Biobank The Rhode Island Biobank is a state of the art cryogenic facility for human tissue and fluid samples. The facility provides a secure, centralized biorepository and bioregistry for tissues and fluids that will be available for biomedical research. Visit Page Open details for Rhode Island Biobank Structural Biology Facility The Structural Biology Core Facility provides state-of-the art equipment for structural modeling in crystals and in solution using X-ray diffraction and scattering as well as magnetic resonance. Visit Page Open details for Structural Biology Facility Mouse Transgenic and Gene Targeting Facility Mouse Transgenic and Gene Targeting Facility provides services including generation of genetically modified mouse and cell models through embryonic delivery of CRISPR/Cas reagents, transgenic constructs, or injection of gene targeted embryonic stem cells into blastocysts; cryopreservation and rederivation of mouse lines; molecular design and genotyping. Visit Page Open details for Mouse Transgenic and Gene Targeting Facility X-Ray Reconstruction of Moving Morphology (XROMM) Facility X-ray Reconstruction of Moving Morphology (XROMM) is a 3D imaging technology, developed at Brown University, for visualizing rapid skeletal movement in vivo. Visit Page Open details for X-Ray Reconstruction of Moving Morphology (XROMM) Facility CoresRI.org A directory of core research facilities, services, and instrumentation in Rhode Island Visit Page Open details for CoresRI.org Other Research Resources Advance Clinical and Translational Research (CTR) Advance-CTR supports Rhode Island investigators through funding, research resources and services, and professional development offerings. Visit Page Open details for Advance Clinical and Translational Research (CTR) BioMed Evaluation Services Our evaluation director can assist with providing evaluation consultation, guidance, and oversight. Visit Page Open details for BioMed Evaluation Services Brown University Herbarium (BRU) The Brown University Herbarium was founded in 1869 when the University acquired the collections of Stephen Thayer Olney. The collection includes around 100,000 plant specimens and is an important repository of Rhode Island and New England collections. Visit Page Open details for Brown University Herbarium (BRU) Brown University Oncology Research Group (BrUOG) The Brown University Oncology Research Group (BrUOG) advances cancer care through the implementation of innovative, multidisciplinary clinical trials. Visit Page Open details for Brown University Oncology Research Group (BrUOG) Center for Animal Resources and Education The Center for Animal Resources and Education is dedicated to supporting the education and research mission of Brown University, while maintaining compliance with federal, state and institutional regulations, guidelines and policies. Visit Page Open details for Center for Animal Resources and Education Chemistry at Brown: Facilities & Services The Chemistry Department facilities include fully equipped research laboratories, dedicated laboratories for NMR and Mass Spectrometry, radioisotope use, fully staffed chemistry stockroom, machine shop, and an electronics workshop, as well as classrooms and office space. Visit Page Open details for Chemistry at Brown: Facilities & Services Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences (DEEPS) DEEPS research advances knowledge in the earth and planetary sciences through five major thematic areas: Geophysics; Climate and Environment; The Planetary Perspective; Environmental Science, and Geochemistry. Visit Page Open details for Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences (DEEPS) Engineering Core Facilities Specialized research facilities available in the School of Engineering make significant contributions to breakthroughs in science. Visit Page Open details for Engineering Core Facilities Instrumentation for Molecular and Nanoscale Innovation (IMNI) Instrumentation for Molecular and Nanoscale Innovation (IMNI) administers a state-of-the-art equipment infrastructure that consists of four facilities: Electron Microscopy Facility (EMF), Nanofabrication Central Facility (NCF), NanoTools Facility (NTF), and the Joint Engineering & Physics Instrument Shop (JEPIS). Visit Page Open details for Instrumentation for Molecular and Nanoscale Innovation (IMNI) Plant Environmental Center The Plant Environmental Center is comprised of six computer controlled research greenhouses totaling approximately 5,000 square feet. These greenhouses are used for research experiments, as well as to house various plant collections used to support biological science classes. Visit Page Open details for Plant Environmental Center Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About BioMed Core Facilities Cores RI This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search BioMed Core Facilities Open details for BioMed Core Facilities Bookmark this Page