Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Search Menu Site Navigation Home About the Division Leadership Strategic Plan Departments Affiliated Hospitals Contact Us Research Core Facilities Centers, Institutes, and Programs Offices and Services Diversity Search Division of Biology and Medicine From the Office of the Dean Breadcrumb Home About the Division Leadership Sub Navigation In This Section Department Chairs and Administrators From the Office of the Dean Communications from the Dean Excellence Awards From the Office of the Dean Mukesh K. Jain, MD, dean of medicine and biological sciences Dr. Jain leads biomedical research and education at Brown and serves as dean of the Warren Alpert Medical School. Learn more Excellence Awards The Dean's Excellence Awards honor dedicated faculty and professionals across Brown's basic science and clinical departments. Visit Page Open details for Excellence Awards Newsletter Kudos recognizes faculty, student, and trainee achievements throughout the Division and the affiliated hospitals. Visit Page Open details for Newsletter Communications from the Dean Visit Page Open details for Communications from the Dean Biology and Medicine in the News March 15, 2022 News from Brown University to celebrate impact, history of ‘50 Years of Medicine at Brown’ A kickoff event on Friday, April 29, will begin a 15-month celebration of the Warren Alpert Medical School’s evolution and its plans for the future. March 10, 2022 News from Brown Brown researcher to lead $16M grant to explore potential cause, treatment for Alzheimer’s disease Led by principal investigator John Sedivy, a multi-university effort will build on recent discoveries about mechanisms of aging to understand causes and potential treatments for neurodegenerative diseases. March 7, 2022 News from Brown Powered by students, focused on patients — assisting Rhode Islanders through Connect for Health As volunteers with Lifespan’s Connect for Health program, dozens of Brown students each year link patients in need with available resources, with the ultimate goal of improving physical health and well-being. February 11, 2022 News from Brown At community health clinic in Providence, improving access and care for LGBTQ+ patients Founded by Brown faculty members Dr. Amy Nunn and Dr. Philip Chan, Open Door Health is lowering barriers to health care by providing culturally congruent LGBTQ+-focused care. January 25, 2022 News from Brown To research addiction, Brown senior Eve Glenn is combining empathy with cutting-edge brain science After witnessing challenges faced by childhood friends, Glenn is researching the neurobiological underpinnings of alcohol and substance abuse disorders with the goal of enabling more effective treatments. October 20, 2021 News from Brown Physician-scientist Dr. Mukesh K. Jain appointed dean of medicine and biological sciences at Brown A cardiovascular specialist and health care leader at University Hospitals and Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Dr. Jain will lead biomedical research and education, and serve as Warren Alpert Medical School dean. October 5, 2021 News from Brown Brown scientist wins NIH innovator award to illuminate undetected brain activity A five-year, $1.5 million grant from the National Institutes of Health will support Ahmed Abdelfattah’s research to shed light on brain activity, which could ultimately benefit patients facing a range of disorders. September 29, 2021 News from Brown NIH awards Brown $10.8M to expand data-informed research to fight human disease The COBRE Center for Computational Biology of Human Disease is advancing the use of computational tools among biomedical scientists at Brown, helping them unlock new insights that could ultimately benefit patients. August 19, 2021 News from Brown New $19.9M grant will expand hub for translational science, biomedical research in Rhode Island With five years of renewed federal funding, Advance-CTR will support researchers in taking their work from bench to bedside to the broader community, ultimately making a direct and positive impact on the people of Rhode Island. August 17, 2021 News from Brown Beware the ‘molecular parasites’ involved in aging and disease Brown researcher John Sedivy, lead author of a sweeping review article about transposons, explains what these mobile genetic elements are, how they are more harmful than benign and where their weaknesses may lie. July 8, 2021 News from Brown Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects A study that looked at 10-year outcomes of the Initiative to Maximize Student Development showed that it increased diversity within academic programs and prepared underrepresented students for successful careers in STEM. April 1, 2021 News from Brown Phase II of Brown’s Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan to focus on equity, inclusion In launching Phase II of its ambitious action plan, Brown assessed progress to date, reaffirmed the essential role of diversity and inclusion to academic excellence, and outlined new actions toward a more fully equitable community. Show More Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About the Division Leadership Strategic Plan Departments Affiliated Hospitals Contact Us Research Core Facilities Centers, Institutes, and Programs Offices and Services Diversity This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search From the Office of the Dean Open details for From the Office of the Dean Bookmark this Page