Skip to content Menu Welcome to bioMT About Our Successes Contact us Research Projects Current Projects Completed Projects/COBRE Graduates Cores Research Administration & Mentoring Core (RAMC) External Advisory Committee bioMT Scientific Cores Molecular Tools Core (MTC) Core Users (MTC) – by PI Lab Molecular Interactions & Imaging Core (MIIC) Core Users (MIIC) – by PI Lab Additional Resources Pilot Program Current Pilot Projects Completed Pilot Projects People Faculty Council Core Facility Staff Researchers External Advisory Committee Administrative Staff Alumni News & Events Seminar Series Cite bioMT! Welcome to bioMT What We Do Biology We explore the operation and control phosphorylation and protein-protein interaction networks, conformational switches, microRNA regulatory pathways, and intracellular trafficking and degradation machineries. Mentoring We accelerate the research and career trajectories of students, post-docs, and junior faculty members. Targets We seek new therapeutic targets for brain cancer, colon cancer, pancreatic cancer, airway infection, and inflammation. Tools We integrate insights from protein biochemistry and engineering, biophysics, high-resolution microscopy, and chemical, structural and computational biology. Visit Our Successes for a highlighted list of our achievements. Our Partners Funding is provided by award P20-GM113132 from the IDeA program of the NIH National Institute of General Medical Sciences, Dartmouth College, the Geisel School of Medicine, the Thayer School of Engineering, and the Norris Cotton Cancer Center. We also work closely with other IDeA Programs at Dartmouth. These include our COBRE colleagues (the Center for Molecular Epidemiology and the Center for Quantitative Biology) and the NH-INBRE. Our partners across New England include the Vermont Genetics Network, Maine INBRE, and the Center of Integrated Biomedical and Bioengineering Research (CIBBR) from UNH. View our bioMT supported publications: Recent News Now Open: I-Trep Biomedical Entrepreneurship Summer Course May 12, 2022 Dr. Brian O’Sullivan highlights Dr. Dorothy Anderson’s 1938 study in Lost Women of Science Podcast November 5, 2021 2021 Virtual North East Regional IDeA Conference (v-NERIC) August 16–18 May 12, 2021 Contact: bioMT Vail Building, room 309 Hanover, NH biomt@dartmouth.edu 603.646.5182 Recent Tweets Tweets by DartBioMT Copyright © 2022 · GeneratePress