Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Search Menu Site Navigation Home About the Division Leadership Strategic Plan Departments Affiliated Hospitals Contact Us Research Core Facilities Centers, Institutes, and Programs Offices and Services Diversity Search Division of Biology and Medicine Offices and Services Administrative offices that support the operations and mission of the Division are listed below. Offices and Services Administrative offices that support the operations and mission of the Division are listed below. Biology Undergraduate Education The Office of Biology Undergraduate Education manages undergraduate curriculum planning and advising for the Program in Biology. Visit Page Open details for Biology Undergraduate Education Office of Biomed Communications The Office of Biomed Communications oversees communications standards and practices for the the Program in Biology and The Warren Alpert Medical School, including branding and visual identity, publications, and web development. Visit Page Open details for Office of Biomed Communications Biomed Computer Services Biomed Computer Services coordinates computing resources and information technology for the Program in Biology and The Warren Alpert Medical School. Visit Page Open details for Biomed Computer Services Biomed Facilities Planning and Operations The Office of Facilities Planning and Operations manages building operations and support, planning design and construction, equipment procurement, machine shop, and mail services for The Warren Alpert Medical School and the Program in Biology. Visit Page Open details for Biomed Facilities Planning and Operations Biomed Faculty Administration The Office of Biomed Faculty Administration facilitates the recruitment, appointment, retention, and promotion of faculty members across The Warren Alpert Medical School and the Program in Biology. Visit Page Open details for Biomed Faculty Administration Biomed Finance and Planning The Office of Biomed Finance and Planning manages budgeting and financial reporting for The Warren Alpert Medical School and the Program in Biology. Visit Page Open details for Biomed Finance and Planning Biomed Human Resources Manages staffing, employee relations, compensation, and employee programs for the Program in Biology and The Warren Alpert Medical School. Visit Page Open details for Biomed Human Resources Biomed Research Administration The Office of BioMed Research Administration serves as a central resource to Division faculty, staff, and students in their pursuit of research, training, and other scholarly activities while insuring compliance with University, federal, and private sponsor regulations, terms, and conditions. Visit Page Open details for Biomed Research Administration Biomedical Advancement The Office of Biomedical Advancement manages processes related to fundraising, including alumni relations, communications, and marketing. Visit Page Open details for Biomedical Advancement Center for Animal Resources and Education The Center for Animal Resources and Education is dedicated to supporting the education and research mission of Brown University, while maintaining compliance with federal, state and institutional regulations, guidelines and policies. Visit Page Open details for Center for Animal Resources and Education Continuing Medical Education Visit Page Open details for Continuing Medical Education Diversity and Multicultural Affairs The Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs coordinates diversity initiatives for The Warren Alpert Medical School and the Program in Biology, including student and faculty recruitment. Visit Page Open details for Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Executive Dean for Administration The Office of the Executive Dean for Administration oversees Division offices for Finance and Planning, Human Resources, Computer Services, Research Administration, Communications, and Facilities Planning and Operations. Visit Page Open details for Executive Dean for Administration Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies The Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies coordinates graduate student admissions and postdoctoral scholar appointments for the Program in Biology. Visit Page Open details for Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Library Services The Health Sciences librarian coordinates access to life sciences and public health publications. Visit Page Open details for Library Services Mailroom A component of the Office of Biomed Facilities Planning and Operations, the mail room provides interoffice and first-class mail services for the Program in Biology and The Warren Alpert Medical School. Visit Page Open details for Mailroom Medical Education The Office of Medical Education and Continuing Quality Improvement oversees the curriculum, course review, and faculty evaluations for the MD and MD/ScM degree programs at The Warren Alpert Medical School. Visit Page Open details for Medical Education Medical School Administration The Office of Medical School Administration manages the registrar, student records and enrollment, and room scheduling for The Warren Alpert Medical School. Visit Page Open details for Medical School Administration Medical School Admissions The Office of Admissions manages admission processes for applicants applying for the MD and MD-ScM programs. Visit Page Open details for Medical School Admissions Medical School Financial Aid Manages loan and scholarship programs and financial advising for Warren Alpert Medical School students. Visit Page Open details for Medical School Financial Aid Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME) The Program in Liberal Medical Education manages Brown's 8-year combined undergraduate and medical education program. Visit Page Open details for Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME) Shared Services The BioMed Shared Services Office supports designated faculty in applying for sponsored programs and successfully executing sponsored awards. Visit Page Open details for Shared Services Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About the Division Leadership Strategic Plan Departments Affiliated Hospitals Contact Us Research Core Facilities Centers, Institutes, and Programs Offices and Services Diversity This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Offices and Services Open details for Offices and Services Bookmark this Page