Skip to main content University of California, Riverside School of Medicine UCR Home More from us... UCR School of Medicine SOM Student Affairs Graduate Division Research at the School of Medicine Search UC Riverside School of Medicine Division of Biomedical Sciences Bridging the gap between science research & clinical medicine Search Home Research Research Overview Research Centers Research Operations Website Histology Core Facility Website Multiphoton Core Facility Website Cell Sorter Core Facility Website nCounter SPRINT Profiler Core Facility Website Admissions Calendar Degree Programs Ph.D. Program Ph.D. Curriculum Designated Emphasis Master's Master's Curriculum M.D./Ph.D. Combined Degree Graduate Faculty Graduate Faculty by Research Area Our Graduate Students Contacts for Graduate Students Forms for Graduate Students Information for Biomedical Sciences Graduate Students Biomedical Sciences Student Handbook Degrees Overview Seminars BMSC 252 - Invited Speakers Series BMSC 254 - Biomed Pizza Friday Giving Directory Biomed Staff Faculty Non-Senate Academic Staff UCR Home More from us... UCR School of Medicine SOM Student Affairs Graduate Division Research at the School of Medicine The Division of Biomedical Sciences at the UCR School of Medicine The Division of Biomedical Sciences at the University of California, Riverside School of Medicine has a rich tradition of high-impact research on medically relevant topics, student-centered teaching excellence and a service within the academic community. Our Degree Programs The Graduate Program in Biomedical Sciences creates independent research scientists with skills that allow them to bridge the wide gulfs that exist between clinical medicine and basic science research. Featuring training opportunities with more than 60 faculty from across campus, we offer Ph.D., combined M.D./Ph.D., or M.S. degree programs. Learn about Our Degree Programs Research that Spans Disciplines Our faculty members are well-known in their areas of research specialization and support and foster scientific synergy between faculty researchers, postdoctoral fellows, graduate students and support staff. Previous Next Breadcrumb The Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program The Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program trains independent research scientists to enable them to bridge the wide gulfs that currently exist between basic science research and clinical medicine. Graduate students acquire a broad understanding of human disease, therapeutics and design of predictive experimental model systems through an innovative and rigorous program that integrates medical curriculum with mentored research and critical analysis of research-based modeling of human pathophysiology. The program grants Ph.D. and M.S. degrees and is for any student with a B.S./B.A. or M.D. or is currently in the M.D. program at UCR School of Medicine. Learn more about the Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Read the Division of Biomedical Sciences Statement of Solidarity with Black Lives Matter and Call to Action Download the PDF Employment Opportunities Interested in a career in the Division of Biomedical Sciences and the UCR School of Medicine? You can find a complete listing of open positions on the employment page of the SOM website. Visit the Employment pages Visit AP Recruit for Academic Positions Visit UCR Jobs for Staff Positions Support Biomedical Sciences Your philanthropic support provides the UCR School of Medicine with the resources and tools necessary to support our students, research, clinical services and capital projects – all benefiting SOM’s mission of providing excellence in healthcare to diverse and underserved patient populations. Learn more about giving opportunities Biomedical Sciences News May 16, 2022 Researchers from Around the World Coming to Riverside for Biennial Conference on Parasite Read More » March 31, 2022 UCR biomedical scientist joins international SARS-CoV-2 group assembled by NIAID SAVE focuses on mutations in SARS-CoV-2 and emerging virus variants Read More » March 28, 2022 Should you get a second booster shot for COVID-19? UC Riverside’s Dr. David Lo, a vaccine expert, shares his thoughts Read More » February 24, 2022 A potential antiviral for SARS and SARS-like coronaviruses UC Riverside-led study shows how an effective therapy against SARS-CoV-2 could be developed Read More » February 03, 2022 Scientists profile FDA-approved drugs to potentially treat hundreds of genetic disorders New method developed by UC Riverside researchers quickly assesses drug potential for rare disorders Read More » February 01, 2022 Grant to biomedical scientist will support cerebral malaria research Byron Ford, a professor of biomedical sciences in the UC Riverside School of Medicine, has received a grant from the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, to develop a new intervention against cerebral malaria. Read More » January 31, 2022 Researchers develop molecular traps to target SARS-CoV-2 Joint effort by UC Riverside and UCLA scientists aims to stop the COVID-19-spreading virus from attacking immune cells Read More » January 25, 2022 Scientists discover new avian immunological pathway UC Riverside-led team identifies a new host protein interaction that produces a robust immune response to viral infection in birds and may lead to better poultry vaccines Read More » More News Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Division of Biomedical Sciences 1212 Webber Hall 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA, 92521 Main Business Number: (951) 827-5470 Admissions Office: (951) 827-4540 General Inquiries: biomedsci@medsch.ucr.edu Admissions Office: biomedadmissions@medsch.ucr.edu Related Links UCR School of Medicine Southern California Eukaryotic Pathogen Symposium Center For Glial-Neuronal Interactions Breathe Center Center for Healthy Communities Medical School Intranet UCR School of Medicine Compliance Office Follow US: Visit UCRSOM's Facebook Page Follow UCR School of Medicine on Twitter Visit UCRSOM's YouTube channel Follow UCRSOM on Instagram Subscribe to UCR SOM News at UCR Today Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search All UCR Search This Site Cancel