Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences | Georgia Institute of Technology | Atlanta, GA | Georgia Institute of Technology | Atlanta, GA Menu Close Home About Message from the Chair About the School Job Opportunities Faculty Openings Non Tenure Track Faculty Openings Post Doctoral Fellow Openings Staff Openings Tech Temps FAQ Faculty Resources Graduate Prospective Students Current Students Courses Sample Curricula Programs Ph.D. Biology M.S. Biology Ph.D. Applied Physiology Ph.D. Bioinformatics M.S. Bioinformatics Ph.D. Quantitative Biosciences Ph.D. Ocean Science and Engineering Dual Doctor of Physical Therapy/Doctor of Philosophy Ph.D. Computational Science and Engineering M.S. Computational Science and Engineering Research Areas Funding Opportunities & Fellowships Apply to the Program Undergraduate Why Biological Sciences? Degree Information Degree Requirements Courses BIOS-BIOL-APPH Course Conversion Degree Options Pre-Health Business Option Research Option Certificates 5-year BS/MS prgrams Opportunities Research Internships TA Experience Minors Study Abroad Registration and Advising Career Preparation Alumni Profiles Points of Contact Research Computational Biology and Bioinformatics Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior Integrative Physiology Molecular and Cell Biology Research Centers Faculty Research Video Gallery Facilities Institute for Bioengineering and Biosciences Marine Institute on Sapelo Island Skidaway Institute of Oceanography Engineered Biosystems Building News & Events Recent News Biological Sciences Seminars & Upcoming Events Past Biological Sciences Seminars & Events Other Biological Sciences Related Seminars People Directory Faculty Staff Graduate Students Adjunct Faculty Post-Doctorate Fellows Research Scientists Alumni Alumni Newsletter Hire a Biological Sciences Student Career Mentoring Giving to the School Keep in Touch Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Profile Frank Rosenzweig Professor Cherry Emerson 311 frank.rosenzweig@biology.gatech.edu 404.385.4458 Georgia Tech Astrobiology Educational Experience: Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan (Population Genetics), Ph.D., University of Pennsylvania (Biology), B.A., University of Tennessee (Comparative Literature) Overview: Research in the Rosenzweig lab is aimed at illuminating the evolution of complex traits that augment biodiversity, control cell lifespan and drive major transitions in the history of life. Our goals are to understand how changes in genome architecture alter global patterns of gene expression, whether such changes explain the physiology and behavior of novel genotypes, and the extent to which adaptation is shaped by trade-offs and constraints. Because all major evolutionary transitions require cooperative behavior, we are especially keen to discover genetic changes that promote this trait. Our approach to these goals is experimental evolutionary genomics using as models the bacteria Escherichia coli and Bdellovibrio bacteriovorus, the Bakers yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the unicellular alga, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. With new and continuing funding from NASA, NIH and the Templeton Foundation we are addressing six fundamental questions. (1) How does a community arise from a single clone? (2) How did the eukaryotic cell, specifically the cell that had a mitochondrion, come to be? (3) How does multicellularity arise? (4) What is the true rate of beneficial mutation – and how pervasive are the pleiotropic effects of those mutations? (5) How might severe stress favor the emergence of new species. (6)What controls the lifespan of a eukaryotic cell? Publications: Georgia Tech Astrobiology Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences Social Links College of Sciences Facebook Twitter YouTube Flicker LinkedIn Google+ Biology Related Research Centers Aquatic Chemical Ecology Center Center for Biologically Inspired Design Center for Integrative Genomics Center for NanoMAD Center for Ribosomal Evolution and Adaptation Center for the Study of Systems Biology Integrated Cancer Research Center Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences 950 Atlantic Drive Atlanta, GA 30332 Office: 404-894-3700 Fax: 404-894-0519 Contact Us Tech Lingo Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology