Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences | Georgia Institute of Technology | Atlanta, GA | Georgia Institute of Technology | Atlanta, GA Menu Close Home About Message from the Chair About the School Job Opportunities Faculty Openings Non Tenure Track Faculty Openings Post Doctoral Fellow Openings Staff Openings Tech Temps FAQ Faculty Resources Graduate Prospective Students Current Students Courses Sample Curricula Programs Ph.D. Biology M.S. Biology Ph.D. Applied Physiology Ph.D. Bioinformatics M.S. Bioinformatics Ph.D. Quantitative Biosciences Ph.D. Ocean Science and Engineering Dual Doctor of Physical Therapy/Doctor of Philosophy Ph.D. Computational Science and Engineering M.S. Computational Science and Engineering Research Areas Funding Opportunities & Fellowships Apply to the Program Undergraduate Why Biological Sciences? Degree Information Degree Requirements Courses BIOS-BIOL-APPH Course Conversion Degree Options Pre-Health Business Option Research Option Certificates 5-year BS/MS prgrams Opportunities Research Internships TA Experience Minors Study Abroad Registration and Advising Career Preparation Alumni Profiles Points of Contact Research Computational Biology and Bioinformatics Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior Integrative Physiology Molecular and Cell Biology Research Centers Faculty Research Video Gallery Facilities Institute for Bioengineering and Biosciences Marine Institute on Sapelo Island Skidaway Institute of Oceanography Engineered Biosystems Building News & Events Recent News Biological Sciences Seminars & Upcoming Events Past Biological Sciences Seminars & Events Other Biological Sciences Related Seminars People Directory Faculty Staff Graduate Students Adjunct Faculty Post-Doctorate Fellows Research Scientists Alumni Alumni Newsletter Hire a Biological Sciences Student Career Mentoring Giving to the School Keep in Touch Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Faculty Research Video Gallery Missed a seminar or surveillance testing town hall? View the recordings here. VIEW RECORDINGS The Biology Major at Georgia Tech is a Perfect Fit for Prehealth Students You can meet all prehealth requirements and earn a Biomedical Science certificate in only 122 credit hours Get the details. Recent News Mathematics and Biological Sciences Researchers Receive NSF Postdoctoral Fellowships May 27, 2022 A trio of postdoctoral scientists have received support for research across the College of Sciences in celestial mechanics, microbial dynamics and infection, and host-microbe symbiosis Build Your Own Biology Textbook May 20, 2022 For five years, the School of Biological Sciences at Georgia Tech has used open education resources (OER) to open the door to updated biology textbooks for introductory courses — that also save students money. NASA Astrobiology Unveils New Research Coordination Network at AbSciCon 2022 May 16, 2022 Frank Rosenzweig, professor in the School of Biological Sciences and Georgia Tech Astrobiology faculty member, will serve as co-leader of the NASA Astrobiology Research Coordination Network, "LIFE: Early Cells to Multicellularity." An Evolution of Astrobiology May 12, 2022 Three researchers from the Colleges of Engineering and Sciences are leading astrobiology’s largest national conference focused on the origins of life. More News Upcoming Events Jun 02 2022 The Civic Role of Universities in a Changing Educational Landscape Georgia Tech's Center for 21st Century Universities (C21U) invites you to attend a half-day event, "The Civic Role of Universities in a Changing Educational Landscape." More Events Spotlight Faculty CMDI Center for Microbial Dynamics and Infection The Center for Microbial Dynamics and Infection (CMDI) is an interdisciplinary collaboration at Georgia Tech seeking to understand the ecology, interactions and evolution of microbes. We are focused on the understanding microbe-microbe and microbe-host interactions that are relevant to human health, ecosystem dynamics and sustainability. Faculty CSSB Center for the Study of Systems Biology Recognized by most experts in the field as the future of biology, Systems Biology seeks to understand how complex living systems interact with each other so that we can diagnose and treat disorders such as cancer. Faculty ACE Aquatic Chemical Ecology Center At Georgia Tech we have organized a diverse group of ecologists, chemists, sensory biologists, engineers, and quantitative modelers, to focus on chemical cues that many organisms use for to make basic survival decisions. Faculty CBID Center for Biologically Inspired Design CBID is an interdisciplinary center for research and development of design solutions that occur in biological processes. Faculty CIG Center for Integrative Genomics The Center for Integrative Genomics at Georgia Tech is a virtual affiliation of researchers interested in the application of genome-wide research strategies to diverse biological themes. Gradiate ICRC Integrated Cancer Research Center The mission of the ICRC is to facilitate integration of the diversity of technological, computational, scientific and medical expertise at Georgia Tech and partner institutions in a coordinated effort to develop improved cancer diagnostics and therapeutics. Faculty NanoMAD Center for NanoMAD Our mission is to develop new technologies for detecting, monitoring and controlling self-assembled macromolecular complexes at various levels, including their pathogenic consequences, biological roles and evolutionary origins. Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Sciences Social Links College of Sciences Facebook Twitter YouTube Flicker LinkedIn Google+ Biology Related Research Centers Aquatic Chemical Ecology Center Center for Biologically Inspired Design Center for Integrative Genomics Center for NanoMAD Center for Ribosomal Evolution and Adaptation Center for the Study of Systems Biology Integrated Cancer Research Center Georgia Institute of Technology School of Biological Sciences 950 Atlantic Drive Atlanta, GA 30332 Office: 404-894-3700 Fax: 404-894-0519 Contact Us Tech Lingo Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology