Skip to content Skip to navigation Welcome to Bio-X Support Contact Search form Search Navigation menu About People Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Research Highlights Videos Events Get Involved COVID Updates You are here Home Interdisciplinary Initiatives Program Seed Grant: Prognosis of anaphylaxis using an ex vivo basophil function assay Seed Grants Project Investigator(s): Sindy Tang - Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering Stephen Galli - The Mary Hewitt Loveless, M.D. Professor in the School of Medicine and Professor of Pathology and of Microbiology & Immunology Kari Nadeau - Naddisy Foundation Professor of Pediatric Food Allergy, Immunology & Asthma, and Professor of Pediatrics (Allergy & Clinical Immunology) and (by courtesy) of Otolaryngology (Head & Neck Surgery) Awarded in 2020 Interdisciplinary Initiatives Program Round 10 - 2020 Sindy Tang, Mechanical Engineering Stephen Galli, Pathology and Microbiology & Immunology Kari Nadeau, Medicine and Pediatrics (Allergy & Clinical Immunology) Anaphylaxis is a poorly understood, severe, systemic, and potentially fatal allergic reaction. Food allergy is a common cause of anaphylaxis. However, metrics to predict anaphylaxis risk in a patient are essentially non-existent. Basophils, the least abundant circulating leukocyte (typically, 0.5-1% of WBC), have been identified to play important roles in allergic inflammation and the onset of anaphylaxis. Mouse models and recent work in humans suggest that basophils play an important role in anaphylaxis, and therefore their characterization could be utilized to evaluate anaphylaxis risk in patients. Our long-term goal is to develop metrics to better stratify patients at high risk of anaphylaxis. Our approach includes using whole blood samples from clinically-proven and well-characterized peanut allergic subjects and healthy controls, and leveraging our interdisciplinary team’s expertise in engineering and human immunology. Outcomes and significance: Our method has potential utility for the stratification and management of anaphylaxis risk. Our contribution will be significant, as it is expected to lower the number and the associated medical costs of adverse allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis, due to food allergy. Stanford Bio-X James H. Clark Center, Stanford University 318 Campus Drive Stanford, CA 94305 contact-biox@stanford.edu Follow @StanfordBioX Contact FAQ Room Reservations SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Copyright Complaints © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305