Open Quick LinksQuick Links Page Landmarks Content Outline Keyboard Shortcuts Tabs Welcome (active tab) Courses Catalog Browser Checker Welcome UofL Blackboard News Blackboard Upgrade to SaaS August 8-12 New View this virtual tour to get a first look at the upgraded navigation. We’re pleased to share that Blackboard will be migrated to a Software as a Service (SaaS) hosting model on August 13! This is an exciting upgrade for our teaching and learning technology system. Not only will this upgrade introduce the highly requested Blackboard attendance tracking feature—with an optional grading component—but migration to SaaS will allow for continuous updates to be made to the service without taking the tool offline. From a user experience standpoint, this will improve product reliability and provide an overall more satisfactory learning and teaching environment. In order to migrate the system, we will experience one final required downtime from 12:01 AM August 8 to 11:59 PM August 12, which falls during the brief interlude between the end of summer term and the beginning of the fall semester. Blackboard will be completely inaccessible during this period. Once the system is back online and fully upgraded, users will see minor cosmetic changes with regard to the log-in screen and process, as well as site navigation. We’ll release more details on these changes, along with a virtual tour, in the coming weeks. Notably, all tools and features available on the system today will be carried over through the migration, along with any integrated third-party applications or publisher content. We’re excited to deliver this upgrade to our campus this fall. If you have any questions, please reach out to Alicia Dunlap, Assistant Director of the Delphi Center for Teaching & Learning, by email or at 502-852-0724. 20180618 Collaborate Downtime August 1 and August 5 All Collaborate Original and Collaborate Ultra services will be unavailable during the infrastructure maintenance windows on August 1 & August 5. Bb will try to minimize downtime, however Bb will use these entire maintenance windows if necessary. Please review the Blackboard Help site for additional product documentation (available Friday, July 27, 2018). Infrastructure Maintenance: Sunday, August 5, 2018 from 12:00 Midnight EDT to Sunday, August 5, 2018 10:00 AM EDT, Blackboard is performing maintenance on Collaborate services. Original Client and Mac Launchers Update: Wednesday, August 1, 2018 from 4:00 AM EDT to Wednesday, August 1, 2018 6:00 AM EDT. Collaborate Original Clients will need to download new .collab and .jnlp files once the updates have been completed. Existing .collab and .jnlp files will not be valid after the maintenance has been performed. This is a mandatory upgrade for Mac users, to resolve an outstanding bug. These changes require that all Mac users download the new Mac Launcher 1.5.0 to launch sessions going forward. Clients using Collaborate with the Ultra experience will not be affected during this August 1 maintenance window. Please review the Blackboard Help site for release notes and additional details. Refer to the Status Pages for the most up to date status of Bb systems. Attention: Instructors: Panopto Recordings for Mac - Issue on Chrome 64 Recordings created using Panopto for Mac can cause playback issues in the recently released version of Google Chrome (version 64). In this release of Chrome, playback halts when the browser encounters minor inconsistencies in the audio stream. Resolution for students experiencing this issue is to use a different browser or follow steps on Panopoto to edit the recording.*Please note that while encoding, the recordings will not be available for viewing. Panopto is working with Google to resolve the issue. 20180501 For any questions, please contact Panopto Support online at support.panopto.com, or via phone at 855-PANOPTO (855-726-6786), option 1 (North American customers). You can also email us at support@panopto.com. Error Messages or Issues Viewing Blackboard? - Clear Browser Cache If you are having issues viewing elements within the GradeCenter or similar Blackboard pages, please clear your browser cache. Go here to learn how to clear browser cache or use the shortcuts, CTRL+SHIFT+DEL or COMMAND+SHIFT+DEL for Mac users. 20180424 Systems Status tab View the history of Blackboard news items Download Blackboard's Student App Today Please wait while the module loads... Download Blackboard Instructor App Download the Blackboard Instructor App Manage your courses, send announcements, and connect with students - all on your phone or tablet. Available today on iOS or Android: Twitter Follow - @BlackboardUofL Follow us @BlackboardUofL on Twitter for important announcements regarding UofL’s Blackboard system. These could include: performance issues, unexpected downtimes, system status, upgrades, new features or changes. Login Here View Options | Privacy and Terms of Use You are not logged in Please enable JavaScript in your browser for the Blackboard application to function. Username Password Systems Status Status pages for cloud and other external services used by or linked into Blackboard such as Pearson, SafeAssign and Collaborate. Please note that not every company with a product in Blackboard has a status page and that statuses are updated at the will of that particular company. We will do our best to update broken links and add new status pages when they become available. Blackboard Cloud Services Collaborate - Web Conferencing (US Hosted) Learn - SafeAssign Learn - Mobile Learn Central Service Learn - Inline Grading (Crocodoc) Cengage Pearson Panopto McGraw-Hill VoiceThread WileyPlus AWS - Amazon hosts Blackboard related services and other third party services UofL Copyright Statement Copyright law protects nearly all of the learning materials and resources on this system and prohibits further distribution and dissemination of them. These materials and resources are provided solely for use by students enrolled in the course, and those students are solely responsible for complying with copyright law. Further information about copyright is available on the web from the United States Copyright Office: www.copyright.gov. For specific copyright issues related to the University of Louisville, please visit louisville.edu/copyright.