<iframe height="0" src="//www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5LBRZK" style="display:none;visibility:hidden" width="0"></iframe> Skip To Content Texas A&M University Libraries Hours Libraries MyLibrary Help Hours View All Hours Libraries Business Library & Collaboration Commons Parking Directions / 979-845-2111 Cushing Memorial Library & Archives Parking Directions / 979-845-1951 Medical Sciences Library Parking Directions / 979-845-7428 Policy Sciences & Economics Library Parking Directions / 979-862-3544 Sterling C. Evans Library & Annex Parking Directions / 979-845-3731 MyLibrary Help Chat with us Text us @ 979-256-1091 Email us FAQs Report a problem Business Library & Collaboration Commons Business Starting Points: Business Database List Business Research Guides Your Business Librarians Business Citation Guide MENUToggle navigation Services Research Study Spaces Borrowing Search Quick Links: Reserve a Study Room Suggest a Purchase Get It For Me (ILL) Course Reserves Login Libraries Catalog Information For Toggle NavigationInformation For:Quick Links Toggle NavigationQuick Links: backBack Information For: Business Database List Business Research Guides Your Business Librarians backBack Quick Links Reserve a Study Room Suggest a Purchase Get It For Me (ILL) Course Reserves Login Libraries Catalog University Libraries BLCC Services About the Patent & Trademark Resource Center About the Patent and Trademark Resource Center The Patent and Trademark Resource Center (PTRC) at Texas A&M University is located in the R.C. Barclay Reference and Retailing Resources Center on the first floor of the Business Library & Collaboration Commons. The PTRC provides access to: Research Guide with information on patents and trademarks, including what they are, the application process, and how to search for those that already exist. A complete color set of plant patents in microfiche and print Collection of reference resources, including books and microforms PubWEST and PubEAST – The public versions of the databases used by patent examiners, which feature superior search functionality and are only available for use at the USPTO Headquarters and at every PTRC in the country. Ask for assistance at the Ask Us Desk and we will get you logged into the databases and provide any required assistance. These databases contain: All U.S. patents issued since 1790 Patent applications published since March 2001 Program History and Mission The Patent and Trademark Resource Center Program was established in 1871 to make printed patents available to the American public. Today, the overwhelming majority of patent and trademark information is available electronically and the mission of making it easier to find is carried on by a network of 80+ academic, public, state, and special libraries across the U.S. and in Puerto Rico. There are six PTRCs in Texas. The Texas A&M University Libraries have participated in the PTRC Program since December 22, 1983. While PTRC staff do not conduct patent searches, we can provide instruction on the search process to individuals, groups, and classes. Appointments are recommended. To make an appointment or to learn more, please call (979) 845-2111 or contact staff directly using the contact information at the bottom of this page. Intellectual Property Disclaimer Texas A&M University Libraries reference staff assistance with patent and trademark searches will extend no further than providing instruction in the use of various patent and trademark search tools available in the division. Please note that the library staff is strictly prohibited from interpreting intellectual property law, offering legal advice or opinions, performing patentability and trademark searches for users, or providing advice on how to file a patent or trademark application. Users shall not infer from any assistance provided by the reference staff any conclusion concerning the patentability of any invention or design or the validity of any trademark. Furthermore, the reference staff is not permitted to provide opinions on the effectiveness of a searcher's efforts to identify a field of search, nor may they give advice or opinion pertaining to the specifics of the technology the searcher is examining. All patent and trademark searches done in Texas A&M University Libraries are preliminary, not exhaustive. Many other steps are required to perform an exhaustive search, such as the examination of foreign and international patent documents and the review of scientific literature. In the case of trademark searches, exhaustive literature searches need to be done on both compact disc and online databases. Again, as with patent searches, the types of searches done at Texas A&M University Libraries are preliminary, not exhaustive. Users who wish further assistance will be directed to listings for registered patent attorneys and agents who have specialized knowledge and experience in predicting patentability and/or the ability of term and/or slogan to be trademarked. Approved by the Texas A&M University System Legal Counsel for use by the College Station Patent and Trademark Resource Center (PTRC), September 8, 1995, Updated November 27, 2002. Contact us Jared Hoppenfeld Business Librarian and primary PTRC contact 979-862-1982 jhoppenf@tamu.edu Boyd Conerway Library Associate I and secondary PTRC contact 979-862-2155 bjconerway@library.tamu.edu Additional Resources Patent and Trademark Resource Center Collection United States Patent and Trademark Office More about the National Patent and Trademark Resource Center Program Patents & Trademarks Guide Support the Libraries AskUs anything at anytime. Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram howdy.tamu.edu Off-Campus Access Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Texas CREWS Comments Services Status