Skip Navigation Institutional Research AND ANALYTICS Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks IRA IRA Home Our Office Cowboy Data Round-Up Ledgers & Reports Academic Ledger Common Data Set Diversity Ledger Student Achievement Data Student Credit Hour Reports Student Profile Tuition & Fees Surveys & Studies IR Links Block Rate Information Institutional Research Sites Submit Info Request Exception requests for Fall 2022 are now available and due by October 31, 2022. For questions regarding Spring 2022 exception requests, please email blockratetuition@okstate.edu. Oklahoma State University is committed to providing accessible and affordable higher education for our students. Our desire is to help students shorten the time to earn their degrees and assist with financial budgeting. To aid in this effort, a block rate has been implemented that includes tuition and University-wide mandatory fees for students taking 12 to 18 credit hours. The “block” rate serves as one of OSU’s strategies to help students stay on target and finish college in 4 years. Undergraduate students taking 12 or more hours will be charged the block rate, which includes tuition and University-wide fees, and should expect this charge on their student account. Special circumstances exist where a student will not be charged the block rate. ***The block rate is never charged for summer courses.*** Frequently Asked Questions What is a "block rate" model? Undergraduate students taking 12 or more hours will be charged the block rate that includes tuition and University-wide mandatory fees. Under this model, the cost for tuition and University-wide fees is the same for students taking 12 to 18 hours in a semester. Undergraduate resident block rate = $4,621.50 per semester Undergraduate nonresident block rate = $12,381.75 per semester Additional college based, fees based on status classification, and other fees (such as field trips or materials) are assessed on a per credit hour basis. See the Bursar Tuition & Fees Estimator for a calculation of additional college based and other fees. You can view a list of all fees here. What are the benefits of the block rate? The block rate encourages students to enroll in at least 15 hours a semester to put them in line to graduate in 4 years. In addition, it saves additional years’ costs for room, board, transportation and other expenses related to attending college, reduces student loan debt, and allows for earlier entry into the workforce. Those taking 16 to 18 credit hours will actually see a decrease in cost from the same number of hours taken when paying per-credit-hour. What does the block rate include? The block rate includes tuition and University-wide (mandatory) fees (student activity fees, student facility fees, library automation and technology fee, health services fee, student development fee, daily O’colly fee, academic records fee, academic excellence fee, transit/parking services fee, advising/assessment fee, university technology infrastructure maintenance fee, academic facilities, life safety and security fee and student union renovation fee). Academic Service Fees such as specific course fees and/or college based fees, including online course fees, are not included in the block rate and will continue to be charged on a per credit hour basis. Which students are affected? The block rate affects full-time undergraduate students taking 12 or more hours in the fall and spring semesters. How are students taking more than 18 hours charged? Undergraduate students taking more than 18 are charged the block rate for the first 18 hours and pay the regular per credit hour rate for each hour over 18. Are all courses counted in the block rate? Courses counted towards the block include: OSU-Stillwater courses OSU-Tulsa courses (unless taking all OSU-Tulsa courses) Online courses (does not include the per-credit-hour online course fee) Graduate level courses taken by undergraduate students Courses taken at NOC Stillwater (online courses through NOC are NOT included as NOC Stillwater courses) Outreach exception courses are not charged regular tuition and University-wide fee rates and are therefore NOT included in the block rate. Are intersession courses offered in August and December included in block hours? Yes, August intersession courses are part of the fall semester and winter intersession courses are part of the spring semester. How does the block rate affect dropping, adding and withdrawing from courses? If a student maintains between 12 and 18 credit hours, dropping and adding courses does not result in a change in the block rate. College-based and course-based fees may be affected, depending on the drop/add date. See the Enrollment Guide for refund periods. If a student is originally enrolled in fewer than 12 hours, the tuition and University-wide fees they are charged are based on per credit hour amounts. If a student adds a course putting them at or above 12 hours, there will be an adjustment to their bursar account to reflect the block rate. This will be the case regardless of whether the course is added during the first 2 weeks of the semester, or if a short course is added later in the semester. If a student paying the block rate drops to fewer than 12 credit hours during the nonrestrictive or restrictive drop/add period, their charges are adjusted to remove the block rate and will reflect per credit hour charges for all coursework. Withdrawing from a course after the restrictive drop/add period does not affect a student’s block rate status. Are there any circumstances where a student may be granted an exception? Please see the exceptions and appeals section below. Exceptions & Appeals Process Exception requests for Fall 2022 are now available and due by October 31, 2022. For questions regarding Spring 2022 exception requests, please email blockratetuition@okstate.edu. A process has been established for students who are unable to enroll in 15 hours each semester to apply for an exception to the block rate. Completion of an appeals form with documentation and submission to the appropriate office for review will be required of the student. Additional information may be requested from the student as needed. Some groups of students are automatically charged the per-credit-hour rate instead of the block rate. These students should NOT complete the appeals process: Students enrolled in less than 12 hours Graduate students Professional students (e.g. vet med) Students enrolled in the guaranteed/tuition lock program Students enrolled in outreach exception courses, such as study abroad or travel, that are not charged regular tuition and University-wide fees Students only taking OSU-Tulsa courses (does not include web-based courses) In addition, students enrolled in 15 or more hours would not benefit from a block rate exception and should not complete the appeals process. Students enrolled in 12, 13, or 14 hours and are not able to take 15 hours a semester due to specific circumstances are eligible to file an exception. Examples of criteria eligible for an exception include: Students with disabilities or health issues. Graduating seniors who need less than 15 hours in their last semester or less than 30 hours in their last fall and spring semester. Students studying abroad or in a reciprocal exchange program. Students completing an internship. Students limited to fewer than 15 hours in a semester due to curricular structure of their degree program. Students in official university sponsored activities to which he/she commits 25 or more hours per week for a substantial portion of the term. Students who are under contractual agreements (academic and/or scholarship) with the university that limit enrollments to less than 15 credit hours. Requests for an exception to the block rate must be submitted online. It is important to select the most appropriate form and complete the entire request, along with any additional documentation required. Failure to do so will result in denial of the request. For full consideration, the deadlines for submitting completed forms and all related documentation are October 31st for the Fall Term and March 31st for the Spring Term (with some consideration for late short courses or other extenuating circumstances). Requests will be submitted to the Block Rate Exception Committee and students will be notified via OSU email once the request has been reviewed. Until this process is completed the student is responsible for all tuition and fees on their Bursar account, including all service charges. If the exception is approved, the tuition and fees will be adjusted and charged at a per credit hour rate. Requests will not be retroactively granted for prior semesters. CLICK HERE TO APPLY FOR A BLOCK RATE EXCEPTION If you have questions, please email blockratetuition@okstate.edu or call 405-744-4244. Dropping/Adding Courses For information regarding dropping and adding courses, please visit the Bursar website. Questions? Randy Kitchens blockratetuition@okstate.edu 405-744-8286 Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©