Skip to content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Alumni Parents News Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Search smu.edu Search smu.edu Primary Menu Simmons About Academics & Prospective Students Research Our Faculty Community Engagement Alumni Simmons Continues on the Upswing in U.S.News & World Report Rankings for Best Graduate Schools in Education Posted on March 28, 2022Updated: April 7, 2022 SMU’s Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education and Human Development advances for the third consecutive year in U.S. News & World Report 2023 national rankings released online on March 29. The Simmons School ranks 54 in public and private graduate schools of education, rising from 59 last year. Previously, the school’s placement was 63, which represented a significant leap from 105 in 2021. This progression reflects continued upward growth for the school’s placement among top public and private education schools. Simmons now has moved from the top 15 private graduate schools to the top 12. In the state, only UT Texas at Austin and Texas A&M at College Station have a ranking higher than Simmons. “Our ranking is shaped by many factors, but what our research faculty members are doing is extraordinary. External funding per faculty member is $323.8 thousand and our researchers’ determination to pursue important work is setting a grant funding record at SMU,” says Leon Simmons Endowed Dean Stephanie L. Knight. “We know the Covid pandemic impacted students and their families with many challenges, but now what we can do as educators is to assess and improve learning. The evidence-based practices we teach in Simmons are defined by our research.” To rank schools of education, U.S. News & World Report considers measures of academic quality, including faculty resources, student selectivity, doctoral degrees granted, in addition to peer assessment scores and research activity. Rankings for 2023 were assessed for 274 schools. Categories: Featured News, General News & Announcements, Higher Education Read other articles Dallas Innovates Reports on Toyota’s National Roll-Out of School Model Based on the West Dallas STEM School Dominique Baker Receives Grant to Examine If Media Coverage of Student Debt Impacts the Narrative Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Recent Posts CORE partners with the Walton Family Foundation on Fellowship for Evaluators in Philanthropy SMU Student Senate To Fund Scholarships For West Dallas STEM School Attendees, Rotunda Scholars Professor Ketterlin Geller Gives Address at Honors Convocation 2022 Dominique Baker Receives Grant to Examine If Media Coverage of Student Debt Impacts the Narrative Simmons Continues on the Upswing in U.S.News & World Report Rankings for Best Graduate Schools in Education Categories Applied Physiology Bilingual/ESL Conflict Resolution Counseling Department of Wellness Dispute Resolution Dyslexia Early Childhood Education Policy Education Research Exercise Physiology Featured News Featured Research General News & Announcements Gifted Health Higher Education Math Education Philanthropy PreSchool Teacher Education Slideshow Special Education Sport Management STEM Teaching and Learning Technology Uncategorized Upward Bound Videos Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube