Menu Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply Now Make a Gift PEER & WISE Jobs and Opportunities May 18, 2022 Opportunities for Employment and Research: Georgia Department of Transportation-Civil Engineering Georgia Department of Transportation has openings STATEWIDE for graduates with a degree in Civil Engineering and graduates with a degree in Construction Management. If you would like to learn more about either of these opportunities please visit the following links: Civil Engineering 2 (CE2) – http://f.rfer.us/GAe9h6xq Construction Management (CME) – http://f.rfer.us/GA2OV6xo If you have any questions please feel free to contact me at ndavis@dot.ga.gov or 770-533-1124 ———————————————————————————————————————————————————————- Mechanical Engineering Student Shop The Clemson University Mechanical Engineering Student Shop is open to all students regardless of major. We provide an environment to allow students to gain hands-on machining and fabrication experience regardless of prior experience. The student shop is always looking to hire a few people each semester, if interested in becoming a supervisor the information is below. Want to become a supervisor? Here are the steps: 1. Let the general manager (gadamso@g.clemson.edu) know of your interest in becoming a supervisor. 2. Complete all of your certs. 3. Upon completion of your certifications, your application will be reviewed by the general manager and the lab coordinator, Dr. Byrd. 4. If approved to proceed, complete a 10-hour shadowing of current supervisors. These are to be completed in sections of 2-3 hours a week. 5. Current supervisors will give you an “intern project.” 6. Upon completion of your shadowing, your application will be reviewed by the general manager and the lab coordinator, Dr. Byrd. 7. If your application is approved, congratulations! You will start working as a shop supervisor the next semester! If you wish to start sooner and if there is a demand for supervisors in the shop, exceptions may be made as well. Please plan accordingly to how long the entire internship process takes: Certifications General: ~30 mins Green: ~2 hours Blue: ~4-6 hours Orange: ~4 hours Shadowing 10 hours Our website contains additional information and hours: https://cecas.clemson.edu/mestudentshop/ ———————————————————————————————————————————————————————- Thinker Program Please see attached PowerPoint for more information! THINKER 2022 ———————————————————————————————————————————————————————- Civil Engineering Positions A client has some entry-level construction roles open for a 2-year project. The project is in Pennsylvania to identify and inventory all lead service lines . Construction Inspector verification of water service line materials for Lead and Copper Rule Compliance verification of water service line materials for Lead and Copper Rule Compliance for utility infrastructure inspection in Pennsylvania. ESSENTIAL RESPONSIBILITIES Inspect water service line materials to verify presence of lead. Communicate with Contractors, Utility Companies, Engineering Team, and occasionally, the Public regarding project status Address any concerns about the project to Contractors, Utility Companies, Engineering Team, and occasionally, the Public. Prepare Daily Reports and Testing Documentation per project requirements. Grads can email me at Michele.Heyward@PositiveHire.co ———————————————————————————————————————————————————————- PITT STEM BRIDGE PROGRAM We, Gelsy Torres-Oviedo (gelsyto@pitt.edu) and Douglas Weber (dweber2@andrew.cmu.edu), just received funding from DoD STEM for the BRIDGE program (https://engineering.pitt.edu/bridge-program/) and we would love to inform your students about it. Briefly, the BRIDGE program is a multi-institutional (Pitt Bioengineering, Carnegie Mellon Mechanical Engineering, DoD National Laboratories) research training program created to increase the participation in higher education of individuals historically underserved or underrepresented in science and engineering. Previous Categories: Opportunities Resources Related Posts Scholarship Opportunities May 18, 2022 Updates about WISER January 13, 2022 1 Credit Creative Inquiry Course- ‘Preparing, finding and applying for your first research experience’ (ECAS 1990 301) December 5, 2021 PEER & WISE Website Workshops and Events Archives May 2022 April 2022 March 2022 February 2022 January 2022 December 2021 November 2021 October 2021 September 2021 April 2021 March 2021 February 2021 January 2021 December 2020 November 2020 August 2020 May 2020 February 2019 March 2017 Categories Alumni Awards Events Opportunities Outreach Recruitment Resources Staff Spotlight Student Story Uncategorized Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google Plus Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram