Home Chapter Leadership Admission Volunteers Career Volunteers Hilltop Volunteers (DFW Only) Refer a Friend Contact Us SMU Hilltop Volunteers SMU Hilltop Volunteers Kathleen Scott 2018-08-01T20:59:13+00:00 Thank You! Thank you to our 2016-2017 SMU Hilltop Volunteers! 18 alumni hosted Pony Preview Day campus tours for 400 local elementary and middle school students. We would love to have your help again in 2017-2018! Renew your membership today or refer a friend to join the SMU Hilltop Volunteers this year! Program Timeline and Volunteer Opportunities After signing up as a Hilltop Volunteer, you will receive emails periodically from your liaison in the SMU Alumni Office that will alert you to available service opportunities. Register for service projects based on your availability. Hilltop Volunteers are asked to sign up for at least one service project or activity during the course of a year (June 1 – May 31.) The Hilltop Volunteer program is open to all alumni of SMU living in the Dallas or Fort Worth areas. See the opportunities and timeline below to get an idea of what to expect from this program. Summer Distribute SMU giveaways at a local branch of the Dallas Public Library during the Dallas Mayor’s Summer Reading Launch Party. Ride on the SMU Parade Float or walk with the SMU Community during the Park Cities Fourth of July Parade. Fall Provide SMU campus tours for local elementary and middle school students during Pony Preview Days Read stories to a local elementary school class during Dr. Seuss Day. Winter Ride on the SMU Parade Float or walk with the SMU community during the Martin Luther King Jr. Parade. Spring Provide SMU campus tours for local elementary and middle school students during Pony Preview Days. Participate in SMU’s Stampede of Service event during Founders’ Day Weekend, during which alumni volunteers will participate in service activities at local charitable organizations. Renew Your Membership in the SMU Hilltop Volunteer program Your Alumni Office liaison will email you in June about renewing your membership. Veteran SMU Hilltop Volunteers from 2017-2018 have the option to renew today and volunteer for 2018-2019. SMU HilltopVolunteer Resources Like the SMU Alumni Volunteer Facebook Page: Stay in touch with updates on program progress, campus information and group discussions. Send us your photos of your volunteer efforts and we’ll feature them on the group page! Join now. Take a Virtual Tour of Campus: See what’s changed on the Hilltop since you graduated! Take the tour. Take a Walking Tour of Campus: Follow this map for a self guided tour on campus. Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Health and Safety Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275