Skip to primary content Brown University Library News Services, People, and Events at the Brown Unviersity Library Search Main menu Home Ask a Librarian BruKnow Off-Campus Access Library Homepage Library Events Post navigation ← Previous Next → Exhibit | Familiar Wild Flowers Posted on March 5, 2018 by [email protected] Common Scarlet Poppy or Red-Weed, 1895. Familiar Wild Flowers (1897) F. Edward Hulme Frederick Edward Hulme (1841–1909) was born in Hanley, Staffordshire, the son of an accomplished artist. He was a professor of drawing at King’s College London and a prolific writer on natural history, archeology, art instruction, flags of the world and other subjects. Familiar Wild Flowers was Hulme’s third publication and his most popular. Each volume contains 40 color plates and detailed descriptions with historical references for each flower. Eight of the nine volumes were published during his lifetime. The author reveals the pleasure he took in his work in the preface to the first volume: “The plants we have represented will be to many as old familiar friends, linked in their minds with sunny memories; and nothing that we can say or leave unsaid will either enhance or detract from their enjoyment. To those, however, who have yet to find in a new study this wealth of interest, we would venture to commend our pleasant labours, in the earnest hope that through them they may be led to enter for themselves on this enjoyable pursuit, and find, like ourselves, in the study of Nature an ever-increasing delight.” Dates: March 5 – 31, 2018 Time: John Hay Library Hours Location: Second Floor Landing, John Hay Library, 20 Prospect Street, Providence This entry was posted in Announcements, Collections, Exhibits & Events, Exhibits & Events, Featured Resources, General Interest, Hay, Josiah Carberry, Special Collections, Spotlights, Uncategorized, Uncategorized by [email protected]. Bookmark the permalink. BROWN UNIVERSITY | PROVIDENCE, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | WEBSITE FEEDBACK Proudly powered by WordPress