Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Libraries Spotlight BLOG Category: CLIO Tips Tips & Tricks For Getting Through Finals Posted on December 3, 2012 by Emily The Libraries are here to support you throughout the end of the semester! Here's how: Stressbusters will be in Butler 203 on Wednesday, December 12, giving backrubs, and offering tips for reducing stress and more. Librarians will also be on hand to answer questions and hand out healthy study snacks. Check out Facebook for more info. […] Read More… Posted in CLIO Tips, Events and ExhibitsTagged Ask a Librarian CLIO Search Tips Posted on August 25, 2011 (August 25, 2011) by Emily by Jessica Gentile, Social Media Intern With the fall semester just around the corner, here are some tips for using CLIO, Columbia University Libraries’ online catalog system. Brush up on searching options before your first research paper hits. Keywords can be entered in any order. It won’t change the outcome of your search. Example: a search for […] Read More… Posted in CLIO Tips CLIO New Arrivals Now Publicly Available Posted on June 14, 2011 by Emily by Jessica Gentile The Library Information Technology Office is now making CLIO New Arrivals publicly available on the main CLIO web page. This service allows you to search and discover new acquisitions from within the past three months by the Columbia University Libraries. You can search for resources by title, author and keyword as well as […] Read More… Posted in CLIO Tips, New E-Resources CLIOmobile Posted on November 5, 2010 (November 9, 2010) by Jen CLIO, the Libraries’ online catalog now has a new mobile version – CLIOmobile – for use with your smart phone or mobile device! From CLIOmobile, you can: Search CLIO Save items to ‘My List’ Email records Check your Library Account and renew books Place recalls To use CLIOmobile, point your mobile device browser to the […] Read More… Posted in CLIO Tips CLIOmobile Posted on September 27, 2010 (October 1, 2010) by Jen CLIO, the Libraries’ online catalog now has a new mobile version – CLIOmobile – for use with your smart phone or mobile device! From CLIOmobile, you can: Search CLIO Save items to ‘My List’ Email records Check your Library Account and renew books Place recalls To use CLIOmobile, point your mobile device browser to the […] Read More… Posted in CLIO Tips Text Message the Libraries Posted on June 22, 2010 (June 24, 2010) by Jen There are two new ways to use the Libraries with your cellphone! (Standard rates apply.) Text a Call Number to Your Cell Phone CLIObeta now offers the ability to send a information about an item at the Libraries (author, title, location, call number) via text message to a cell phone. Here’s how: Conduct your search […] Read More… Posted in CLIO TipsTagged Ask a Librarian CLIO Tip: Export Your Citations to Refworks Posted on April 20, 2010 (April 26, 2010) by Jen You can now export citations directly from CLIO Beta to Refworks, an online citation management program available free to all Columbia students, faculty and staff. RefWorks allows you to organize your citations in multiple folders and to create bibliographies in a variety of styles. Endnote and Zotero users may also find this a useful way to harvest […] Read More… Posted in CLIO Tips CLIO Tip: Using Limits in CLIO Beta Posted on February 12, 2010 (February 16, 2010) by Jen Looking for art books shelved in the Barnard Library? Use the Advanced Search to limit by library location, date of publication, language, format, or place or place of publication. This introduction to CLIO Beta covers searching with limits, basic and advanced search options, and placing recall or hold requests. Thanks the the Barnard […] Read More… Posted in CLIO Tips Announcing CLIO Beta Posted on January 25, 2010 (January 29, 2010) by Jen Beginning Monday, January 25, 2010 CLIO Beta will replace CLIO Classic as the primary search tool for Columbia University Libraries. What does this mean? CLIO Beta will be the new CLIO interface now. All links to CLIO will take you to the CLIO Beta interface. Is the search different? No. CLIO Beta and Classic have exactly the […] Read More… Posted in CLIO TipsTagged News CLIO Tip: Book covers in CLIObeta Posted on December 11, 2009 (December 14, 2009) by Jen Book covers now display in the results list when you use CLIO beta, providing a colorful visual cue when selected full-text is available through Google Books. From the results list, click on the title of the book to view the CLIO record for that item. From here, you can connect to full-text, when available. […] Read More… Posted in CLIO Tips 1 2 » Search Category RSS Feeds Ask a Librarian (2) CLIO Tips (13) Events and Exhibits (148) Featured E-Resources (15) Government Information (3) Hours (5) New E-Resources (36) News (1) Research Tips (7) Tools & Tips (75) Uncategorized (1) Using the Libraries (76) We Are Your Library (18) Workshops & Training (118) Blogroll Avery Library Blog Butler Library Blog CLIO Columbia Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Columbia University Libraries Facebook Columbia University Libraries News Columbia University Libraries Twitter Global Studies Blog Jewish Studies Blog Journalism Library Blog News & Notes from RBML The Long View Watson Business & Economics Library Blog CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us