Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News News from Columbia's Rare Book & Manuscript Library Tag: Office of the President The Benjamin Franklin Chair’s Big Day Out Posted on 2022-04-27 (2022-04-25) by University Archives Columbia University President Lee C. Bollinger recently announced that he will be stepping down as Columbia University’s President on June 30, 2023. While most of us took the time after his announcement to look back on the past two decades of Bollinger’s administration, there is one “member” of the Rare Book and Manuscript Library who […] Read More… Posted in Columbia University ArchivesTagged Columbia University, Office of the President, University Archives Mystery Solved: The Presidential Keys to the University Posted on 2022-02-09 (2022-02-09) by University Archives At each presidential inauguration ceremony at Columbia, the Chair of the Board of Trustees presents the new President with the charter and keys to the University. In 1993, President George Rupp was notably struck by the very large crown-topped keys. Today we reveal the origins of the presidential keys to the University. […] Read More… Posted in Columbia University ArchivesTagged Columbia University, Office of the President, University Archives Search RBML Links RBML Home Library Alerts Library Hours Categories Categories Select Category American History Collections (1) Bakhmeteff Archive (6) Carnegie Corporation of New York Collection (6) Columbia University Archives (147) Comics and Cartoons (16) Hebraica and Judaica (11) History of Mathematics & Science (2) Human Rights Collections (10) John Jay Papers (8) Latino Art & Activism (7) Literature Collections (3) manuscripts (22) Medieval & Renaissance Collections (12) News & Events (2) Oral History (41) Papyri and Ostraca (3) Performing Arts Collections (2) Printing History and Book Arts (38) Publishing (3) Russian & Eastern European Collections (13) Typography (5) Uncategorized (119) Subscribe for RBML updates Leave This Blank:Leave This Blank Too:Do Not Change This: Your email: CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us