Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Libraries Spotlight BLOG Category: Using the Libraries Ready to Browse in Butler Lounge Posted on May 10, 2022 (May 10, 2022) by Abbey Lovell Written by Teaching and Undergraduate Services Librarian Kaneisha Gaston. Butler Library recently transformed empty shelves in the Lounge (room 214) into a new browsing display, called Butler Browsing. Butler Library is home to the Libraries’ Milstein Undergraduate Library, which supports the University’s undergraduate courses, introductory-level guides to academic disciplines and popular interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary titles. […] Read More… Posted in Using the LibrariesTagged Butler Browsing, Butler Library, News Free Open Access Publishing with Cambridge University Press Posted on February 25, 2022 by Abbey Lovell Columbia University Libraries is pleased to announce that the NorthEast Research Libraries Consortium (NERL), of which Columbia is a core member, has signed a Read and Publish Agreement with Cambridge University Press (CUP) that will waive article processing charges (APCs) for open access articles that meet the following eligibility criteria: Have a corresponding author affiliated with Columbia University Be original research (eligible […] Read More… Posted in Tools & Tips, Using the LibrariesTagged academic journals, News, NorthEast Research Libraries Consortium, open access, publishing Ongoing Workshops from Columbia University Libraries Posted on January 25, 2022 by Abbey Lovell Columbia University Libraries offers regularly-occurring workshops on key resources throughout the semester. These sessions are typically held via Zoom and are open to anyone at Columbia. They are held weekly at various days and times to make them easy to fit into your schedule, and are all one hour or less. Popular workshops include: Getting […] Read More… Posted in Events and Exhibits, Research Tips, Tools & Tips, Using the LibrariesTagged CLIO, databases, Getting Your Bearings, Workshops, Zotero How to Use the FLI Partnership Lending Library for Low-Income or First-Generation Undergrads Posted on January 5, 2022 by Abbey Lovell Are you teaching a course in the Spring and want to make sure your course materials will be available for your undergraduate students? Partner with the Libraries and help us make course materials available to all students through course reserves, purchasing, and the FLI Partnership Lending Library. For more support, contact undergrad@library.columbia.edu. The Columbia FLI […] Read More… Posted in Tools & Tips, Using the LibrariesTagged Barnard FLI Partnership Library, Columbia FLI Partnership Library, course reserves, FLI Partnership Lending Library, News, undergraduate services Five Ways to Get Started at the Libraries This Summer Posted on May 18, 2021 by Abbey Lovell Columbia University Libraries is thrilled to welcome students to campus this summer! Whether you’re returning to campus or arriving for the first time, we’re here to support you. Here are five easy ways to get started at the Libraries: Browse Collections Access millions of our collections online through CLIO. To request scans of print materials, […] Read More… Posted in Tools & Tips, Using the LibrariesTagged Ask a Librarian, From Books to Bytes, Navigating the Research Ecosystem, News, services, tools, We Are Your Library, Workshops New E-Handouts Support Remote Learning and Teach New Research Methods and Skills Posted on May 13, 2021 by Abbey Lovell Written by Social Science and Social Work Research Support Librarian Sophie Leveque. Social Science and Social Work Research Support Librarian Sophie Leveque uploaded several e-handouts to Academic Commons for use by the Columbia University community and beyond. The learning materials were originally created to accompany four popular virtual workshops hosted by the Libraries, Let’s Use […] Read More… Posted in New E-Resources, Research Tips, Tools & Tips, Using the LibrariesTagged E-resources, remote learning, Workshops Five Reminders about Using the Libraries in Person Posted on March 15, 2021 (April 27, 2021) by Allison Reserving a study seat is quick and easy, including just before you come. You can reserve a seat any time prior to arrival for up to four hours per day. Multiple reservations (in different locations) are allowed. Video conferencing is allowed in designated rooms. Masks must be worn at all times.You will be asked to leave […] Read More… Posted in Using the LibrariesTagged book pick-up service, Hours, News, Service Announcements, status updates SimplyE, a Mobile App for Ebooks, Comes to Columbia Posted on February 25, 2021 (April 27, 2021) by Allison Columbia University Libraries is pleased to announce the launch of SimplyE for Columbia, a free mobile app that brings together ebooks from our collection and makes them accessible all in one place. Initially developed and launched by the New York Public Library, SimplyE helps Columbia’s Libraries improve the reading experience and makes available ebooks from […] Read More… Posted in Tools & Tips, Using the LibrariesTagged News Extended Library Hours Beginning March 7 Posted on February 22, 2021 (March 7, 2021) by Allison Beginning March 7 through the end of Spring term (April 23), the Science and Engineering Library will be open until midnight Sundays through Wednesdays in response to student requests for extended hours. Six libraries are currently open for study space to students, faculty, and staff. To enter and use library study spaces, you must make a reservation, […] Read More… Posted in Using the LibrariesTagged Hours, Service Announcements Declassified Government Documents Held in the Libraries’ Collections are Now Significantly Easier to Search and Discover Posted on December 14, 2020 (April 27, 2021) by Allison Columbia University Libraries and the History Lab are pleased to announce an important milestone in a multi-year project to significantly improve the discoverability of declassified government documents held in the Libraries’ collection via the Freedom of Information Archive (FOIArchive). Integration of the U.S. based collections of the archive in the Columbia Libraries’ catalog now enables […] Read More… Posted in Tools & Tips, Using the LibrariesTagged Government Information, News 1 2 3 … 8 » Search Category RSS Feeds Ask a Librarian (2) CLIO Tips (13) Events and Exhibits (148) Featured E-Resources (15) Government Information (3) Hours (5) New E-Resources (36) News (1) Research Tips (7) Tools & Tips (75) Uncategorized (1) Using the Libraries (76) We Are Your Library (18) Workshops & Training (118) Blogroll Avery Library Blog Butler Library Blog CLIO Columbia Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Columbia University Libraries Facebook Columbia University Libraries News Columbia University Libraries Twitter Global Studies Blog Jewish Studies Blog Journalism Library Blog News & Notes from RBML The Long View Watson Business & Economics Library Blog CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us