Skip to primary content Brown University Library News Services, People, and Events at the Brown Unviersity Library Search Main menu Home Ask a Librarian BruKnow Off-Campus Access Library Homepage Library Events Post navigation ← Previous Next → Exhibit | Haggadah: Telling and Retelling the Story of Jewish Liberation Posted on March 20, 2018 by [email protected] Selections from the Dr. Steven Ungerleider Collection of Haggadot The Dr. Steven Ungerleider Collection of Haggadot, presenting the text recited on the first two nights of the Jewish Passover, represents a remarkable array of geographic, linguistic, and temporal diversity. Encompassing more than four hundred years of Jewish culture, from the Ottoman Empire in 1505 to the State of Israel in the 1950s, the collection is comprised of haggadot from Asia, Africa, Europe, North America and the Near East. It incorporates a wide range of Jewish vernacular languages, from Yiddish and Ladino to Judeo-Italian and Judeo-Arabic in representative exemplars from Jewish communities across the globe, many long since dispersed. The current exhibition, Haggadah: Telling and Retelling the Story of Jewish Liberation, highlights the breadth and depth of the Ungerleider Collection. This extraordinary gift to the University honors Dr. Steven Ungerleider’s father, Samuel Ungerleider, Jr. ‘39. The exhibition will be on display in the lobby and main gallery of the John Hay Library from Monday, March 5, through Friday, June 15, 2018. Dates: March 5 – June 15, 2018 Time: John Hay Library Hours Location: Exhibition Gallery, John Hay Library, 20 Prospect Street, Providence This entry was posted in Announcements, Collections, Exhibits & Events, Exhibits & Events, Featured Resources, General Interest, Hay, Josiah Carberry, New Acquisitions, New Resources, Special Collections, Spotlights, Uncategorized, Uncategorized by [email protected]. Bookmark the permalink. BROWN UNIVERSITY | PROVIDENCE, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | WEBSITE FEEDBACK Proudly powered by WordPress