Skip to primary content Brown University Library News Services, People, and Events at the Brown Unviersity Library Search Main menu Home Ask a Librarian BruKnow Off-Campus Access Library Homepage Library Events Post navigation ← Previous Next → American Dance Legacy Initiative and Brown University Library Host Dance Exhibition Posted on September 16, 2011 by Amy Atticks "Ruth St. Denis giving the pupils a lesson in a dance of religious meditation," from Ruth St. Denis: Pioneer & Prophet (San Francisco: Printed for J. Howell by J.H. Nash, 1920) PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] – The Brown University Library and the American Dance Legacy Initiative (ADLI) are excited to present Capturing Fleeting Moments: Exploring The Bryson Dance Collection a dance exhibit on view at the John D. Rockefeller Library. The exhibition opens at 2:30pm on Saturday, October 15 with a tour by Senior Scholarly Resources Librarian Rosemary Cullen and ADLI co-founder and Senior Lecturer in the department of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies, Julie Adams Strandberg, and a dance presentation by Brown University undergraduate dancers. Thomas and Antonia Bryson donated the Bryson Dance Collection of over two thousand books, programs, playbills, photos and documents to the Brown University Library system in 2010. The collection forms a record of the international development of theatrical dance, primarily ballet and modern in the 20th century. Curated by ADLI, Capturing Fleeting Moments highlights two branches of early American modern dance illustrated by objects from the collection. The exhibit includes books and programs depicting the ideas and work of Ruth St. Denis, Ted Shawn, Martha Graham, Doris Humphrey, Charles Weidman, Merce Cunningham, Paul Taylor, and José Limón; as well as video footage of Brown University students performing the works of these choreographers. Additional events featuring the Bryson Collection will occur on March 17, 2012 during the American Dance Legacy Initiative Mini-Fest at the Granoff Center for the Creative Arts. American Dance Legacy Initiative, housed at the John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage, is dedicated to enabling individuals to celebrate, share, and participate in America’s rich dance heritage and recognize it as a cultural asset relevant to all. The Brown University Library is home to more than 6.8 million print items, plus a multitude of electronic resources and expanding digital archives serving the teaching, research, and learning needs of Brown students and faculty, as well as scholars from around the country and the world. Contact: Jennifer Braga | 401-863-6913 ### This entry was posted in Exhibits & Events, Workshops by Amy Atticks. Bookmark the permalink. About Amy Atticks Communications and Stewardship Specialist, Brown University Library View all posts by Amy Atticks → BROWN UNIVERSITY | PROVIDENCE, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | WEBSITE FEEDBACK Proudly powered by WordPress