Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News CLIO News & Updates Library Stacks Reopening; ETAS Ending Posted on August 26, 2021 (August 26, 2021) by Sarah Witte Since the suspension of on-campus academic activities in March 2020, the Libraries have been providing students and faculty with increased access to millions of online resources, emergency digital access to in-copyright materials, and online assistance in support of teaching and research. We put in place several emergency services that will be discontinued for Fall 2021, […] Read More… Posted in NewsLeave a comment SimplyE for Columbia Posted on February 24, 2021 (February 24, 2021) by Sarah Witte Columbia University Libraries is pleased to announce the launch of SimplyE for Columbia, a free mobile app that brings together ebooks from our collection and makes them accessible all in one place. Initially developed and launched by the New York Public Library, SimplyE helps Columbia’s Libraries improve the reading experience and makes available ebooks […] Read More… Posted in NewsLeave a comment Borrowing (book pick-up service), scanning from Library collections, and book returns Posted on July 15, 2020 by Sarah Witte Book pick-up service is now available for select print material. Eligible items will have a “Pick-up” hyperlink in the CLIO record (currently available for materials shelved in Butler Library only). Please refer to the Pick-Up Service page for instructions about how to request materials for pickup, how to pick up the materials, and how to […] Read More… Posted in NewsLeave a comment Scanning from Offsite resumes Posted on June 11, 2020 (July 6, 2020) by Sarah Witte It is once again possible to request scans from our offsite collections held at ReCAP. Offsite items available for scan requests will have the “Request: Scan” links displayed in CLIO records. Physical delivery of ReCAP items has not yet resumed, so the offsite request form has been modified to only allow scan requests to be […] Read More… Posted in NewsLeave a comment Expanded online access to collections during COVID-19 Emergency Posted on May 4, 2020 (June 11, 2020) by Sarah Witte Close to 40% of our print collections are now available through Hathi Trust Emergency Temporary Access. Books and journal volumes currently available to you through the Emergency Temporary Access Service have the label “Log in for temporary access” After connecting to Hathi Trust from the list, scroll down to see the “Temporary Access” link. Then […] Read More… Posted in NewsLeave a comment CLIO introduces “Best Bets” feature Posted on August 10, 2018 (August 29, 2018) by Sarah Witte CLIO has added new functionality designed to get researchers to our most frequently used resources and web sites with less typing and fewer clicks. As you type in a search term if it matches one of these resources you will see a direct link displayed below your search: The links are chosen as the most […] Read More… Posted in NewsLeave a comment Steps for downloading your list of checked out items to Zotero Posted on March 6, 2018 by Sarah Witte Reader feedback helps us to fine-tune our collections and services. One recently requested upgrade to our catalog has been the ability to download citations for the books that one has checked out. Thanks to the Library Information Technology team, this is now possible. Note that this procedure uses My CLIO rather than My Library Account […] Read More… Posted in NewsLeave a comment Country of Publication facet added to CLIO Catalog Posted on February 21, 2018 by Sarah Witte It is now possible to filter CLIO catalog results by country (and sometimes state or province) of publication To see everything published in a particular country, leave the search blank, hit search, and then filter by the country: Have a question or comment about CLIO? Click on “Help” in the upper right corner of each […] Read More… Posted in NewsLeave a comment Four Million Princeton and NYPL Titles Added to CLIO Posted on October 12, 2017 (October 12, 2017) by Sarah Witte The Shared Collection Service, developed in partnership with Princeton University Library and The New York Public Library (NYPL), has launched! More than four million titles (comprising over seven million items) from New York Public Library and Princeton University Library are now available for request in CLIO. Columbia faculty, students, and staff can request direct delivery […] Read More… Posted in NewsLeave a comment Geospatial discovery added to CLIO Posted on January 19, 2017 by Breck Witte We’re excited to announce that the latest CLIO release incorporates a new top level data source, joining Catalog, Articles, Academic Commons, and Web site search. Select GeoData to search the Columbia University Libraries spatial data collection as well as the collections of several other institutions, using geographical constraints. GeoBlacklight, a new open source platform for […] Read More… Posted in Development, Features, NewsLeave a comment 1 2 3 … 6 » Return to CLIO JavaScript disabled or chat unavailable. About Us | Chat Hours | Privacy Info | Non-Affiliates Search Quick Links About CLIO Search Tips Release Notes Suggestions Recent Posts Library Stacks Reopening; ETAS Ending SimplyE for Columbia Borrowing (book pick-up service), scanning from Library collections, and book returns Scanning from Offsite resumes Expanded online access to collections during COVID-19 Emergency Subscribe to CLIOnews via Email Leave This Blank:Leave This Blank Too:Do Not Change This: Your email: Categories Development (6) Features (14) News (42) Release Notes (5) Search Tips (9) CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us