Skip to the content Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUContact SMU Alumni Menu Search Menu Search Search for: Close search Close Menu Home Directory Attend SMU Events SMU Volunteer Opportunities Give Benefits About Us SMU Distinguished Alumni Award Nomination Form SMU Distinguished Alumni Award Nomination Form Nomination Requirements Any individual may nominate an SMU alumna and/or alumnus for this award. Although nominators are not required to be alumni of SMU, nominees must be SMU alumni who graduated more than 15 years ago. This online nomination form must be received by December 31, 2022, for consideration in 2023. Selected honorees are announced in late spring and are honored each year at the annual Distinguished Alumni Award Dinner which takes place on the Thursday evening of Homecoming Weekend. Once nominated, the individual’s name remains in nomination for a total of three consecutive years, including the initial year in which they were nominated. After that time, the individual may be nominated again. Please note: To build a strong candidate file, the following is suggested (not required): a minimum of two recommendation/support letters, resume or bio, magazine or newspaper articles, and websites etc. Deadline for submitting support documents is January 10, 2023. Contact SMU Alumni Relations at smualum@smu.edu or 214-768-ALUM (2586) with questions. Nomination Date * Nominee First Name * Nominee Last Name * Maiden name, if applicable Nominee SMU Class Year(s) * Nominee Primary City * Nominee Primary State * Nominee Email Does the nominee know you are nominating them for the SMU Distinguished Alumni Award? * Yes No Please give a brief explanation of the nominee's extraordinary service and achievement to a particular organization or cause that has brought distinction to the University, either directly or indirectly. * Please provide examples of the nominee's good character and citizenship. * Please provide examples that demonstrate the nominee's commitment to the University. * Nominator First Name * Nominator Last Name * Nominator Street Address * Nominator Street Address2 Nominator City * Nominator State * Nominator ZIP Code Nominator Email * Please attach a Nomination Letter (if available) Drop a file here or click to upload Choose File Maximum upload size: 52.22MB Completed nominations must have least three recommendation letters, including a nominating letter and two letters of support. You are not required to submit all recommendation letters when submitting this online form. After you submit your nomination form, SMU Alumni Relations will contact you to obtain these letters and complete the candidate file. Incomplete nominations will not be considered. If you are human, leave this field blank. This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Submit Apply NowVisit Us Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275