Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Libraries Spotlight BLOG Category: Events and Exhibits Ongoing Workshops from Columbia University Libraries Posted on January 25, 2022 by Abbey Lovell Columbia University Libraries offers regularly-occurring workshops on key resources throughout the semester. These sessions are typically held via Zoom and are open to anyone at Columbia. They are held weekly at various days and times to make them easy to fit into your schedule, and are all one hour or less. Popular workshops include: Getting […] Read More… Posted in Events and Exhibits, Research Tips, Tools & Tips, Using the LibrariesTagged CLIO, databases, Getting Your Bearings, Workshops, Zotero Columbia University Libraries Participates in a National Day of Racial Healing Posted on January 24, 2022 (January 24, 2022) by Abbey Lovell January 18 is recognized as the National Day of Racial Healing, part of a larger movement for Truth, Racial Healing, and Transformation (TRHT), which is a political and cultural framework developed by Dr. Gail Christopher and the W.K. Kellogg Foundation. TRHT is embraced by more than 300 organizations in the academic, artistic, civic, and faith […] Read More… Posted in Events and ExhibitsTagged Amiri Baraka, Bayard Rustin, Malcolm X, Mary Hamilton, National Day of Racial Healing, News, racial healing, Thurgood Marshall Exploring Podcasting and Journal Publishing with the Columbia Community Posted on September 16, 2021 (September 16, 2021) by Abbey Lovell Written by Digital Publishing Librarian Michelle Wilson. This fall, the Digital Publishing program invites students and faculty across the academic community to partner with Columbia University Libraries to publish research through the Podcasting and Journal Publishing programs. The programs provide educational opportunities, access to technologies, and publishing services to professionally and impactfully share research stories […] Read More… Posted in Events and Exhibits, Tools & Tips, Workshops & TrainingTagged academic journals, digital scholarship, journals publishing program, News, Podcast Essentials, podcasting Lehman Center Spring Program: “Race, Inequality, and Health” Posted on February 3, 2021 (February 4, 2021) by Allison Tomorrow, February 4th, the Lehman Center for American History begins its spring programming with “Chronic Complication: Diabetes, Amputations, and Race in America,” a lecture by Dr. Richard M. Mizelle, Jr., which is part of a continuing lecture series on the nexus of “Race, Inequality, and Health.” A collaboration between the Rare Book & Manuscript Library and the Department of […] Read More… Posted in Events and ExhibitsTagged Lehman Center for American History, Rare Book & Manuscript Library Announcing Curatorial Shorts from the Rare Book & Manuscript Library Posted on January 29, 2021 by Abbey Lovell Curatorial Shorts, a series of talks presented by the Rare Book & Manuscript Library (RBML) on Mondays at 4 p.m., offer an informal look at new research and findings from the library’s collections. The first Curatorial Short will showcase the RBML holdings of Harry Stephen Keeler, a scholar of literary plots, a theorist of generic […] Read More… Posted in Events and ExhibitsTagged Curatorial Shorts, Events, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, RBML Columbia Libraries Celebrates World Digital Preservation Day Posted on November 29, 2018 (November 29, 2018) by Allison Columbia University Libraries joins the international digital preservation community today in celebrating World Digital Preservation Day to recognize the collections preserved, the access maintained and the understanding fostered by preserving digital materials. The commemorative day seeks “to create greater awareness of digital preservation that will translate into a wider understanding which permeates all aspects of society – […] Read More… Posted in Events and Exhibits, Featured E-ResourcesTagged Columbia Spectator, digital preservation, News, Sebastiano Serlio, Ulysses Kay, World Digital Preservation Day Call for Proposals Issued for Third Annual Performing the Library! Series Posted on October 9, 2018 (November 28, 2018) by Abbey Lovell It is with great pleasure that we offer Performing the Library! for 2018 – 2019. Now in its third year, this program engages collaboration between the Libraries and Columbia students with a focus on exhibitions and events that celebrate the library as a collection, a space, and a resource. Performing the Library! is an opportunity to bring to […] Read More… Posted in Events and ExhibitsTagged murals, News, Performing the Library! April 5th, The Art of Data Visualization Posted on April 3, 2018 (March 9, 2020) by Jeremiah Please join us Thursday April 5th for the third annual Art of Data Visualization event in Davis Auditorium, Schapiro Center for Engineering & Physical Science Research. For full schedule and to RSVP, visit the event site. […] Read More… Posted in Events and Exhibits Columbia Libraries Launches Website for the Language and Culture Atlas of Ashkenazic Jewry (LCAAJ) Posted on January 22, 2018 (April 27, 2018) by Abbey Lovell Columbia Libraries is very pleased to announce the launch of the website for the digitized data of the Language and Culture Atlas of Ashkenazic Jewry. An accompanying guide to the use of the digitized materials with many supplementary materials is also available. The LCAAJ archive is an extraordinary resource for research in Yiddish studies that […] Read More… Posted in Events and Exhibits, New E-ResourcesTagged Digital Library Collections, Jewish studies, Language and Culture Atlas of Ashkenazic Jewry, LCAAJ, National Endowment for the Humanities, NEH, News, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, RBML, Yiddish Beat the craze of finals with the Libraries! Posted on December 4, 2017 (December 13, 2017) by Abbey Lovell Take a study break – you’ve earned one! Join the Libraries and our campus partners for stress-relieving activities over reading week and through final exams. Here’s what’s happening: […] Read More… Posted in Events and ExhibitsTagged finals, News, stress relief 1 2 3 … 15 » Search Category RSS Feeds Ask a Librarian (2) CLIO Tips (13) Events and Exhibits (148) Featured E-Resources (15) Government Information (3) Hours (5) New E-Resources (36) News (1) Research Tips (7) Tools & Tips (75) Uncategorized (1) Using the Libraries (76) We Are Your Library (18) Workshops & Training (118) Blogroll Avery Library Blog Butler Library Blog CLIO Columbia Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Columbia University Libraries Facebook Columbia University Libraries News Columbia University Libraries Twitter Global Studies Blog Jewish Studies Blog Journalism Library Blog News & Notes from RBML The Long View Watson Business & Economics Library Blog CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us