Skip to primary content Brown University Library News Services, People, and Events at the Brown Unviersity Library Search Main menu Home Ask a Librarian BruKnow Off-Campus Access Library Homepage Library Events Post navigation ← Previous Next → Spring 2022 Library Hours and Operations Posted on January 24, 2022 by Jennifer Braga Welcome back to your Brown University Library! Health and Safety Operations are founded on the most up-to-date, reliable safety protocols to ensure a healthy environment for our patrons and staff. Please follow all Healthy Brown steps to keep yourself and our community well. If you aren’t feeling well, please make use of the Library’s robust slate of digital resources. When you come to the Library, please: Wear a mask over your mouth and nose at all times Maintain social distance Help keep your fellow Library patrons and Library staff healthy: Always wear a mask, regardless of your vaccination status. Learn more. Who can access Library buildings? Current Brown students, faculty, and staff and current Rhode Island School of Design students can access all Library locations. Reservations are required for the Special Collections Reading Room at the John Hay Library (email [email protected]). Alumni and Other Visitors COMPLETE INFORMATION FOR ALL VISITORS OBTAINING A LIBRARY CARD Visitors who anticipate using the Rockefeller, Sciences, or Orwig Libraries on an ongoing basis must obtain a Brown University Library card. Cards will be issued upon receipt and approval of a completed Brown University Library Visitors request form. The Library must approve requests for all visitors except those with IDs sponsored by a department or program at Brown, or Brown alumni. More information. Visitors must abide by the policies on the Healthy Brown website and should review the Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement. Library Support In-person Patrons can schedule in-person and online consultation appointments with a Library expert by contacting the relevant subject specialist directly. Not sure who to contact? Email [email protected] for general inquiries and [email protected] for Special Collections inquiries. The stacks at the Rock and SciLi are open, and circulation staff are on-site to check out materials. Thank you for wearing your mask, which helps the Library keep the stacks open! Online Please continue to request materials online through BruKnow. Requested materials will be held at the service desks. Patrons will be notified when the item is available and where it should be picked up. The Library is providing document delivery through the ILLiad system. You can also ask questions via chat, book online consultations, and make use of the many resources available on our website. Locations and Hours ROCKEFELLER LIBRARY During regular hours, current Brown and RISD ID holders can swipe through the inside gate. Extended building hours are available to current Brown ID holders only by swipe access at the front door. REGULAR HOURS: January 4 – 25: Monday – Thursday : 8 a.m. – 9 p.m. Friday: 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m. – 5 p.m. Sunday: 12 noon – 7 p.m. January 26 – end of spring term: Monday – Friday: 8 a.m. – 10 p.m. Saturday and Sunday: 10 a.m. – 10 p.m. EXTENDED BUILDING HOURS For current Brown ID holders only, from January 26 through end of spring term: Monday – Thursday: 10 p.m. – 2 a.m. Sunday: 10 p.m. – 2 a.m. SCIENCES LIBRARY REGULAR HOURS: January 4 – 25: Monday – Thursday 9 a.m. – 9 p.m. Friday: 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m. – 5 p.m. Sunday: 12 noon – 7 p.m. January 26 through end of spring term: 8 a.m. – 10 p.m. every day EXTENDED BUILDING HOURS For current Brown ID holders only, from January 26 through end of spring term: Sunday – Thursday: 10 p.m. – 8 a.m. Friday and Saturday: 10 p.m. – 2 a.m. JOHN HAY LIBRARY HOURS: January 24 – 25: Study in the Willis Reading Room (first floor): Monday – Tuesday: 10 a.m. – 5 p.m. Research in the Gildor Family Special Collections Reading Room (first floor): Monday–Tuesday: 10 a.m. – 5 p.m. January 26 through end of spring term (weekend and evening hours are Brown community only): Study in the Willis Reading Room (first floor): Monday – Thursday: 9 a.m. – 10 p.m. Friday: 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Saturday: closed Sunday: 12 noon – 10 p.m. Research in the Gildor Family Special Collections Reading Room (first floor): Monday – Tuesday: 10 a.m. – 5 p.m. Wednesday – Thursday: 10 a.m. – 6 p.m. Friday: 10 a.m. – 5 p.m. Saturday and Sunday: closed For research in the Special Collections Reading Room, please email [email protected] to request a seat reservation. We are currently limiting use of the Special Collections Reading Room to a maximum of nine (9) researchers at a time. You must also request materials through Aeon one week (5 full business days) in advance of your reservation. ORWIG MUSIC LIBRARY REGULAR HOURS: January 4 – 25: Monday – Friday: 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Saturday and Sunday: closed January 26 – end of spring term: Monday – Thursday: 8:30 a.m. – 10 p.m. Friday: 8:30 a.m. – 5 p.m. Saturday: 12 noon – 5 p.m. Sunday: 12 noon – 10 p.m. Reserving Study Rooms Current Brown students, staff, and faculty, and RISD students can reserve group study rooms at the Rock and SciLi through libcal.brown.edu. Graduate and Medical Student Carrels Study carrels are available to graduate and medical students. Interested persons should inquire at the Rockefeller Library service desk. Graduate Teaching Assistant Rooms Graduate TAs may also access a limited number of small study/collaboration rooms to conduct online sections. Registration is required through 25Live. Library Tutorials Guides and videos with information about how to use the Library, conduct various aspects of research, and more are available online. Feedback Your Brown University Library is committed to providing all patrons with the best possible academic library experience. Throughout your engagement with Library collections, physical spaces, patron services, instruction, and web-based tools and content, you should be welcomed, valued, and respected, and be provided with equal opportunities to pursue scholarship in a spirit of free and open inquiry. We encourage your feedback about any aspect of Library services, resources, and facilities. Feedback can be made through this anonymous form, which has an option for inputting your contact information, or you can email [email protected] This Is Your Library You belong here. This entry was posted in Home Page, Library Hours by Jennifer Braga. Bookmark the permalink. BROWN UNIVERSITY | PROVIDENCE, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | WEBSITE FEEDBACK Proudly powered by WordPress