Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Libraries Spotlight BLOG Category: New E-Resources Access The Wall Street Journal through Columbia University Libraries Posted on January 28, 2022 by Abbey Lovell Columbia University students, faculty, and staff have full access to content from The Wall Street Journal (WSJ.com) through the Libraries. The Libraries’ campus-wide site license enables current Columbia faculty, staff, and students to activate an WSJ.com Pass, which provides access to content on the WSJ website on desktop, laptop, and mobile devices. Access is limited […] Read More… Posted in New E-Resources, Tools & TipsTagged E-resources, News, The Wall Street Journal, WSJ, WSJ.com Access The New York Times through Columbia University Libraries Posted on September 21, 2021 (January 5, 2022) by Abbey Lovell Columbia University faculty, staff, and students now have full access to content from The New York Times through the Libraries. The Libraries’ campus-wide site license enables current Columbia faculty, staff, and students to activate an NYTimes.com Pass, which provides access to content on the Times’ website on desktop, laptop, and mobile devices. Access is […] Read More… Posted in New E-Resources, Tools & TipsTagged E-resources, News, NYTimes.com, The New York Times New E-Handouts Support Remote Learning and Teach New Research Methods and Skills Posted on May 13, 2021 by Abbey Lovell Written by Social Science and Social Work Research Support Librarian Sophie Leveque. Social Science and Social Work Research Support Librarian Sophie Leveque uploaded several e-handouts to Academic Commons for use by the Columbia University community and beyond. The learning materials were originally created to accompany four popular virtual workshops hosted by the Libraries, Let’s Use […] Read More… Posted in New E-Resources, Research Tips, Tools & Tips, Using the LibrariesTagged E-resources, remote learning, Workshops Just Launched: Democracy Reform and Voting Rights in the United States Web Archive Posted on April 8, 2021 (June 3, 2021) by Abbey Lovell Written by Web Resources Collection Coordinator Alex Thurman and Journalism and Government Information Librarian Kristina Vela Bisbee. Columbia University Libraries is pleased to announce the launch of the Democracy Reform and Voting Rights in the United States Web Archive. The ongoing struggle in the United States between advocates for voting rights and official proponents of […] Read More… Posted in New E-ResourcesTagged democracy reform, News, politics, voting rights, web archive, Web Resources Collection Program2 Comments Columbia University Libraries and the Center for Teaching and Learning Announce “From Books to Bytes” Instruction Modules Posted on September 15, 2020 (September 15, 2020) by Abbey Lovell In partnership with the Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL), Columbia University Libraries is pleased to announce the availability of “From Books to Bytes: Navigating the Research Ecosystem,” a set of online resources that define the research lifecycle and provide students with practical research strategies. The six-part video series, intended for Columbia-affiliated students, guides viewers […] Read More… Posted in New E-Resources, Research Tips, Tools & TipsTagged archives, Center for Teaching and Learning, citation management, digital literacy, From Books to Bytes, Information Literacy, News, primary sources, research data, research strategy Columbia University Libraries Digitizes Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center Collection Posted on July 29, 2020 (September 24, 2020) by Abbey Lovell In May 2018, Columbia University Libraries was awarded a grant by the GRAMMY Foundation to digitize and preserve 400 hours of unique recordings of early electroacoustic music from the archives of the Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center (CPEMC). The content was selected from a collection of over 5,500 reel-to-reel audio tapes, which were deeded to the Libraries […] Read More… Posted in New E-ResourcesTagged Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center Collection, CPEMC, Digital Libraries Collection, GRAMMY Museum, GRAMMY Museum Grant Program, Music Library, News2 Comments Just Launched: Digital Gaming Communities Web Archive Posted on July 10, 2020 (July 7, 2020) by Abbey Lovell Columbia University Libraries is pleased to announce the launch of the Digital Gaming Communities Web Archive. Developed by librarians within the Ivy Plus Libraries Confederation, the Digital Gaming Communities Web Archive preserves content generated by, and related to, digital games in order to foster research within the discipline. Themes collected include critical gaming, game ethics, […] Read More… Posted in New E-ResourcesTagged digital gaming, Digital Gaming Communities Web Archive, gaming, Ivy Plus Libraries, News, web archive, Web Resources Collection Program1 Comment Just Launched: Muftiships Web Archive Posted on June 25, 2020 (June 18, 2020) by Abbey Lovell Columbia University Libraries is pleased to announce the launch of the Muftiships Web Archive. Developed by librarians within the Ivy Plus Libraries Confederation, the archive preserves the websites of Muftis (Muslim legal experts) and leading jurists from the Islamic world. Included are websites that cover the responses of judicial authorities to current events in their […] Read More… Posted in New E-ResourcesTagged Islamic law, Ivy Plus Libraries, Muftiships Web Archive, News, web archive, Web Resources Collection Program2 Comments Just Launched: U.S. Women’s and Girls’ Magazines Web Archive Posted on May 22, 2020 (June 18, 2020) by Abbey Lovell Columbia University Libraries is pleased to announce the launch of the U.S. Women’s and Girls’ Magazines Web Archive. Developed by librarians within the Ivy Plus Libraries Confederation, the archive consists of websites of women’s media that previously existed as print magazines and have long documented women’s thoughts, activities, economic power, sexuality, political interests, social, cultural, […] Read More… Posted in New E-ResourcesTagged girls' magazines, Ivy Plus Libraries, News, web archive, Web Resources Collection Program, women's magazines, women's media1 Comment Just Launched: Vaccination in Modern America: Misinformation vs. Public Health Advocacy Web Archive Posted on March 3, 2020 (May 22, 2020) by Abbey Lovell Columbia University Libraries is pleased to announce the launch of the Vaccination in Modern America: Misinformation vs. Public Health Advocacy Web Archive. Developed by librarians within the Ivy Plus Libraries Confederation, the archive preserves webpages representing the current state of public discourse and contrasting approaches to authority on vaccination in the United States, with a […] Read More… Posted in New E-ResourcesTagged anti-vaccination, News, pro-vaccination, public health, vaccination, Vaccination in Modern America, web archive, Web Resources Collection Program1 Comment 1 2 3 4 » Search Category RSS Feeds Ask a Librarian (2) CLIO Tips (13) Events and Exhibits (148) Featured E-Resources (15) Government Information (3) Hours (5) New E-Resources (36) News (1) Research Tips (7) Tools & Tips (75) Uncategorized (1) Using the Libraries (76) We Are Your Library (18) Workshops & Training (118) Blogroll Avery Library Blog Butler Library Blog CLIO Columbia Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Columbia University Libraries Facebook Columbia University Libraries News Columbia University Libraries Twitter Global Studies Blog Jewish Studies Blog Journalism Library Blog News & Notes from RBML The Long View Watson Business & Economics Library Blog CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us