Stories All Stories Academics Athletics Awards and Achievements Campus Life Community Engagement Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Research and Innovation Spartan Spotlight For the Media About NewsCenter Select Page SJSU Shines in 2022 Times Higher Education and Money Magazine Rankings by Ken Mashinchi | May 18, 2022 | Awards and Achievements, Top San José State University’s majestic Tower Hall. Photo: Javier Duarte Each year brings a new batch of college rankings — and each year San José State University consistently appears as a top university in the country. Over the past few weeks, SJSU was recognized by the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings and Money Magazine’s Best Colleges in America. In late April, the Times Higher Education (THE) 2022 Impact Rankings placed SJSU in the top 40 of universities overall in the U.S. These rankings assess universities against the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) across four broad areas: research, stewardship, outreach and teaching. SJSU finished in the top 15 among U.S. universities in two categories — “Life Below Water” and “Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions.” Life Below Water measures universities’ research on life below water and their education on and support for aquatic ecosystems. SJSU’s strong showing is a nod to the work conducted at Moss Landing Marine Laboratories. Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions examines universities’ research on peace and justice, participation as advisers for government and policies on academic freedom. SJSU also finished in the top 20 in the “Sustainable Cities and Communities” category, which measures universities’ research on sustainability, their role as custodians of arts and heritage, and their internal approaches to sustainability. SJSU is among top 5% in the U.S. says Money magazine A new Money magazine ranking reinforces what many Spartans already know: San José State University is one of the best colleges in America. Money issued its 2022 Best Colleges ranking in May, with SJSU coming in as the 31st best college in the country — putting SJSU in the top 5% in the U.S. Money evaluated 623 colleges and universities on 24 factors, focused mainly on quality, affordability and student and graduate outcomes. “A ranking like this is extremely gratifying and reflects well on the entire community of San José State University — students, faculty, staff and supporters — who work every day to make this the most transformative university in the nation,” said SJSU Interim President Steve Perez. “We are honored by this recognition and hope it reinforces well-deserved pride within the Spartan community!” SJSU also ranked 19th in the “Best Colleges of the West” category and 27th nationally among public universities, according to Money. Related Stories Harry Edwards’ “The Stage” Nominated for 2022 Sports Emmy for Outstanding Short Feature SJSU Spring Graduates To Check “Complete Degree” Off Their Bucket Lists Victory for Health Activism; SJSU Student Wins at CSU-Wide Research Competition SJSU Faculty Members Lauded for Exceptional Achievements, Scholarship, Longevity Share this post:Share this post: Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Reddit Email Pages Stories About NewsCenter For the Media Categories Academics Athletics Awards and Achievements Campus Life Community Engagement Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Research and Innovation SJSU Sites SJSU.edu Accessibility Accreditation Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Washington Square: the Magazine