Home Chapter Leadership Admission Volunteers Career Volunteers Hilltop Volunteers (DFW Only) Refer a Friend Contact Us Home Kathleen Scott 2017-01-10T20:05:53+00:00 Welcome, Volunteers! We hope you will use this toolkit as a resource for your chosen volunteer programs. You’ll find more information about the Chapter Leadership, SMU Admission Volunteer and SMU Career Volunteer programs, along with links to additional resources. Don’t hesitate to contact us with questions. Why volunteer for SMU? SMU alumni have extraordinary opportunities to shape the world around us. We’re more than 121,000 strong worldwide. We expand our spheres of influence as CEOs and public servants, pioneers and philanthropists, entrepreneurs and entertainers. When we volunteer for SMU, we become part of the inner circle, helping one another in our careers and giving time to help the next generation of world changers start theirs. Our involvement — whether it’s sharing our professional expertise, hosting a gathering for area Mustangs or encouraging prospective students to enroll — not only energizes connections across campus but also extends the University’s legacy of success. Chapter Leadership For alumni, parents and friends across the globe, SMU Chapters provide activities that inspire engagement, involvement, and support for SMU, and generate connections that expand your SMU network. Learn More SMU Admission Volunteers No matter where you live, you can assist with the University’s student recruitment efforts! Share your experiences and encourage future Mustangs in your city to apply and attend SMU. Learn More SMU Career Volunteers SMU students are anxious to make connections as they look to jumpstart their careers. Our volunteers share with students their experiences, insights and expertise from the working world. Learn More Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Health and Safety Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275