Apply Give Get Involved Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream About SMU World Changers SMU Stories Share Your Story Apply Visit Home Kathleen Scott 2017-12-05T14:21:44-06:00 For more than 100 years, SMU has shaped minds, explored the frontiers of knowledge and fostered an entrepreneurial spirit across its degree-granting schools. Explore these stories of Mustangs who have been shaped by unbridled experiences on the University’s beautiful campuses and in the dynamic city of Dallas – and become world-changing leaders in their professions and communities. “My son had Ivy League ambitions, but the way he was cared for, coached, inspired and challenged by SMU staff, faculty and peers was beyond all expectations. We are eternally grateful to SMU.” – Brad Elledge, father of Nick Elledge ’11 More SMU World Changers Kathleen Scott 2017-12-06T11:48:51-06:00 Community change agent As the son of Kurdish refugees, Kovan Barzani ’17 wanted to make the most of his college experience. Before he graduated from SMU, he triple majored, managed a Texas House campaign, started a program to teach refugees job skills and turned a finance internship into a full-time job. Kathleen Scott 2017-01-17T10:40:44-06:00 Breathing new life into an industry Jack Reynolds ’15, Edward Allegra ’16 and Miguel Quimbar ’17 came to SMU as strangers. Together, they founded a company that will change their lives and the lives of other asthma patients. Kathleen Scott 2017-12-12T14:20:25-06:00 Game changer Avery Acker ’16 was the Academic All-American of the Year for all of Division I volleyball. She chose SMU for its academic rigor, so she could pursue her dream of becoming a doctor. More Stories SMU’s singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We’d like to help you shape yours. Visit SMU Apply Now Share your story with us! If you’re putting to use what you learned at SMU to change your world, we want to know about it. Did you create a business or shepherd a transformation in your organization? Lead change in your community, neighborhood or family? Please tell us how you and your fellow Mustangs are making a difference – and how your SMU experience shaped you. Share Now Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Health and Safety Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275