Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Libraries Spotlight BLOG Category: Featured E-Resources Exploring Black History in Archival Collections Posted on February 3, 2022 (February 18, 2022) by Abbey Lovell In celebration of Black History Month, we invite you to explore a few newly-available collections and recent acquisitions in our Rare Book & Manuscript Library (RBML) that showcase the deep contributions of Black historians, thought leaders, and important figures in our archives. The RBML holds the papers of writer Amiria Baraka and an audio-visual collection […] Read More… Posted in Featured E-ResourcesTagged Alexander Gumby, Amiri Baraka, Angela Davis, archives, Black Arts Movement, Black History Month, Darcus Howe, News, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, RBML, Sheila Michaels Civil Rights Organization Oral History Collection, Toni Morrison Pride Month Spotlight: Ebooks in LGBTQ Studies Posted on June 22, 2021 by Abbey Lovell To commemorate Pride Month, Research and Collections Librarian for Gender and Women’s Studies Sarah Witte compiled a selection of ebooks that speaks to a range of experiences and stories from the LGBTQ community. The collection is available to Columbia faculty, staff, and students through SimplyE for Columbia, a mobile app for ebooks. Several highlights from […] Read More… Posted in Featured E-ResourcesTagged LGBTQ studies, News, Pride Month, SimplyE, SimplyE for Columbia Columbia Libraries Celebrates World Digital Preservation Day Posted on November 29, 2018 (November 29, 2018) by Allison Columbia University Libraries joins the international digital preservation community today in celebrating World Digital Preservation Day to recognize the collections preserved, the access maintained and the understanding fostered by preserving digital materials. The commemorative day seeks “to create greater awareness of digital preservation that will translate into a wider understanding which permeates all aspects of society – […] Read More… Posted in Events and Exhibits, Featured E-ResourcesTagged Columbia Spectator, digital preservation, News, Sebastiano Serlio, Ulysses Kay, World Digital Preservation Day CQ Voting and Elections database Posted on November 7, 2018 (March 9, 2020) by Kristina Williams http://www.columbia.edu/cgi-bin/cul/resolve?clio4996822 CQ Press offers primary and general election data for all presidential, gubernatorial or congressional elections from 1789 – 2016. 2018 midterm returns with be verified and uploaded in 2019. As a secondary source, CQ Press takes the raw data from election results and makes it easier to read and digest. PROS – Comprehensive – […] Read More… Posted in Featured E-Resources Highlights from the Data Collection: U.S. Election Data Posted on December 9, 2017 (March 9, 2020) by Jennifer Gerrits The Libraries Numeric Data Catalog Holdings has some interesting data on the United States election results starting from 1912 to the most recent election year. Included are data on not only the presidential elections, but also gubernatorial, senatorial, congressional, and special senatorial elections. The source of the data is Dave Leip’s Atlas of U.S. Presidential […] Read More… Posted in Featured E-ResourcesTagged Dave Leip, Democrat, Election Competitiveness, Government Information - U.S., Holdings, Numeric Data Catalog, Presidential Election, Republican, U.S. Election Data Survey Documentation and Analysis (SDA) Posted on October 21, 2016 (March 9, 2020) by Fadi Survey Documentation and Analysis (SDA) is a web based interface that allows access and analysis of data. The data can be accessed from IPUMS or from the Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR). SDA allows you to: Browse the codebook describing a dataset Calculate frequencies or crosstabulation (with charts) Do comparison of means […] Read More… Posted in Featured E-Resources Columbia Spectator Archive, 1953-1992, Now Available Online Posted on February 11, 2013 (February 14, 2013) by Allison The Columbia Spectator Archive now includes content from 1953 to 1992, totaling nearly 50,000 pages. The website, initially launched in Fall 2012, represents the first phase of a multiyear project to digitize the full run of the Columbia Spectator, Columbia's student newspaper and the second-oldest college daily in the United States. When completed, it will […] Read More… Posted in Featured E-ResourcesTagged News New Online Exhibitions To Check Out Posted on May 21, 2012 by Emily The Libraries house so much more than print resources! Four new online exhibitions launched recently, ranging in a variety of topics from architecture to literature to photography. Check out the papers of Joseph Pulitzer, unique design novelties and more, all from your computer. Avery's Architectural Novelties This exhibition highlights a selection of architectural novelties […] Read More… Posted in Featured E-Resources Using Google Scholar Posted on February 20, 2012 (March 5, 2012) by Emily Google Scholar is a great tool that can help you discover abstracts, full-text articles, and other database content through a simple search interface. The resource provides a search of scholarly literature across a diverse array of subject areas and sources. Here's a reminder on how to most effectively utilize Google Scholar both on-campus and remotely. […] Read More… Posted in Featured E-Resources, Using the Libraries Amnesty International Turns 50! Let’s Make a Global Toast to Freedom Posted on May 26, 2011 (March 9, 2020) by Emily Saturday, May 28, marks the 50th anniversary of Amnesty International. Join Columbia University Libraries and Center for Human Rights Documentation & Research for a virtual Toast To Freedom to recognize this milestone. The Center for Human Rights Documentation & Research houses the archives of Amnesty International USA. This collection documents decades of human rights research and advocacy conducted […] Read More… Posted in Featured E-Resources 1 2 » Search Category RSS Feeds Ask a Librarian (2) CLIO Tips (13) Events and Exhibits (148) Featured E-Resources (15) Government Information (3) Hours (5) New E-Resources (36) News (1) Research Tips (7) Tools & Tips (75) Uncategorized (1) Using the Libraries (76) We Are Your Library (18) Workshops & Training (118) Blogroll Avery Library Blog Butler Library Blog CLIO Columbia Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Columbia University Libraries Facebook Columbia University Libraries News Columbia University Libraries Twitter Global Studies Blog Jewish Studies Blog Journalism Library Blog News & Notes from RBML The Long View Watson Business & Economics Library Blog CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us