Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home Research Hudson River Field Station Hudson River Field Station A community hub for scientific research and environmental education. Our mission is to provide place-based learning opportunities of the Hudson River estuary through field investigations, allowing participants to explore and learn from the natural world. Student, Educator, and Community Programs Science Saturday Family-friendly organized programs to engage and educate the public about our beautiful and unique Hudson River. School & After School Programs Place-based Hudson programming for K-12 school groups, scout groups, after-school clubs, and undergraduate programs. Summer High School Opportunities Next Generation of Hudson River Educators connects historically underrepresented students to the Hudson River through field investigations. Professional Learning Professional learning workshops expand the skills of educators on integrating new techniques and activities into their curriculum. Community Science Community science offers community members an opportunity to contribute to active local research. Day in Life of Hudson and Harbor An annual fall event that celebrates the Hudson River Estuary and educates participants through place-based field exploration and data collection. World Fish Migration Lower Hudson & Harbor Fish Count An annual celebration to create awareness of the importance of migratory fish and free-flowing rivers with events around the world to connect fish, rivers, and people. Upcoming Education Events Jun7Tue Emerging Voices in the Geosciences and Society: Dr. Mika Tosca Lerner Hall, 2920 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 569 4:00 PM - 6:00 PM America/New_York Jun9Thu Climate School Town Hall (Morningside) Faculty House, 64 Morningside Dr., New York, NY 10027 2nd Floor Seminar Ballroom 3:00 PM - 6:00 PM America/New_York Jun11Sat World Fish Migration Day 2022 Lower Hudson & Harbor Fish Count Off-campus 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM America/New_York More Events Follow @ldeo_fieldstation on Instagram View this profile on Instagram LDEO Field Station (@ldeo_fieldstation) • Instagram photos and videos Educational Resources Grades K-5 Lessons & Activities Grades 6-12 Lessons & Activities Educational Pieces at the Field Station Image Carousel with 6 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Easy viewing Wentzscopes are great for learners of all ages who would like to explore the microscopic world. Slide 2: The invisible world station at the Hudson River Field Station is dedicated to exploring the microscopic living and nonliving things that are moving in the estuary: sediments, plankton, and microplastics. Slide 3: Microplastics are a widely observed form of plastic pollution ranging from 1 nanometer to <5 mm in size. The Field Station is equipped with the technology to illuminate any plastics that may be in the Hudson. Slide 4: An Atlantic sturgeon model provides an incredible opportunity to share about the unique characteristics of this Hudson River species. Atlantic sturgeon are migratory, and spend 6 years of their juvenile life in our special section of the Hudson, Haverstraw Bay! Slide 5: Striped bass are an iconic Hudson fish that have influenced many significant landmark environmental legal battles on the Hudson. Slide 6: The Wide Bays Topographic/Bathymetric Map is a tactile learning tool that explores the widest section of the Hudson River. The map was created using bathymetric data collected from Lamont scientists and collaborators in the Hudson River Mapping Project. Easy viewing Wentzscopes are great for learners of all ages who would like to explore the microscopic world. The invisible world station at the Hudson River Field Station is dedicated to exploring the microscopic living and nonliving things that are moving in the estuary: sediments, plankton, and microplastics. Microplastics are a widely observed form of plastic pollution ranging from 1 nanometer to <5 mm in size. The Field Station is equipped with the technology to illuminate any plastics that may be in the Hudson. An Atlantic sturgeon model provides an incredible opportunity to share about the unique characteristics of this Hudson River species. Atlantic sturgeon are migratory, and spend 6 years of their juvenile life in our special section of the Hudson, Haverstraw Bay! Striped bass are an iconic Hudson fish that have influenced many significant landmark environmental legal battles on the Hudson. The Wide Bays Topographic/Bathymetric Map is a tactile learning tool that explores the widest section of the Hudson River. The map was created using bathymetric data collected from Lamont scientists and collaborators in the Hudson River Mapping Project. Previous Next Featured Video Rising Seas, Changing Coastlines: Sea Level Rise in the Hudson River More Videos Research Hudson River Environmental Conditions Observing System HRECOS is a robust environmental monitoring network with stations distributed along the Hudson and Mohawk Rivers to continuously record water quality and weather parameters. eDNA eDNA is an emerging technique that scientists are using to gain a greater understanding of the local fish biodiversity and population dynamics in the Hudson. Piermont Biological & Water Chemistry Data Ongoing biological and water chemistry data collection with students, community scientists, and the public to gain a greater understanding of our section of the Hudson off Piermont Pier. Hudson River Water Quality Persistent and expansive water quality monitoring along the Hudson and connecting tributaries to identify the location and frequency of water quality challenges during wet periods. Oyster Research A study seeking to understand oyster performance and resilience in the face of warming temperatures, acidifying oceans, and hypoxia (low oxygen) as our climate changes. Local to Global Tides & Temperature Supporting work in Greenland studying ice sheet change, tide gauges will be tested at the Field Station before deployment by locals in Greenland communities. Hudson River Mapping The project mapped the Hudson River estuary, collecting information on the depth, bottom features, bottom surface hardness and sediments, and human impact. People Maureen Raymo, Director of the Field Station Margie Turrin, Director of Educational Field Programs Laurel Zaima, Education and Outreach Coordinator Ways to Get Involved calendar icon Visit Schedule a visit for your class or program. handshake icon Donate Make a gift to support our work. question-circle icon Get Info Ask a question about our science and outreach. Our Location The Field Station is located at 200 Ferry Road, Piermont, NY at the eastern end of Rockland County's Piermont Pier. Google Map Location Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close