Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Jewish Studies @ CUL Manuscripts and Printed Books – all bound up Posted on May 17, 2022 (May 17, 2022) by Michelle Margolis Chesner In the very name of the Rare Book and Manuscript Library is a distinction between printed books and those written by hand, or manuscripts. Columbia’s printed books are housed separately from the manuscript codices, and they’re generally considered to be separate kinds of materials. In the early modern library, however, print and manuscript books sat […] Read More… Posted in UncategorizedLeave a comment New and newly cataloged manuscripts from around the world Posted on March 21, 2022 (March 14, 2022) by Michelle Margolis Chesner In recent months, we have been able to add many important materials to the Judaica collection. We acquired another set of letters (in Spanish, Hebrew, and Ladino) from the earliest days of the Amsterdam and Hamburg Sephardic communities in the 17th century (including one relating to the founding of the Sephardic community of Hamburg). These […] Read More… Posted in UncategorizedLeave a comment Neighbors and Strangers: Jews, Christians, and Blood in 1670 Metz Posted on October 24, 2021 (October 24, 2021) by Michelle Margolis Chesner “On the eve of Rosh Hashana, in the year 430 (1669/70), early in the morning, Rephael the pious went to Metz on a white female horse…” So begins the tragic story of Raphael Levy of Boulay, who was accused of murdering a Christian boy on the eve of the Jewish New Year. Tomorrow, on […] Read More… Posted in Uncategorized1 Comment Places and Spaces, Sights and Sounds in the N.E. Alexander Library Posted on September 13, 2021 (October 10, 2021) by Michelle Margolis Chesner Please join us at the 11th annual Norman E. Alexander Lecture in Jewish Studies! All are welcome to this virtual event, but registration is required. This year’s event focuses on researchers studying space and place using resources from the collections. Francesca Bregoli (Queen’s College) will discuss her research in the archive of a cross-Mediterranean family […] Read More… Posted in Lectures and EventsTagged Amsterdam, digital, immigration, Italy, manuscripts, North_Africa, YiddishLeave a comment Censorship gone wild: Painting over liturgical prayers Posted on August 9, 2021 (August 10, 2021) by Michelle Margolis Chesner Many thanks to Lucia Raspe for sharing her work on censorship in early printed Selihot, which was very helpful in writing this post. The Jewish month of Elul, coming right before the High Holidays of Rosh Hashana and Yom Kippur, is a particularly solemn one in Jewish religious life. Special penitential prayers, called Selihot, are […] Read More… Posted in UncategorizedTagged censors, Germany, Italy, Jewish-Christian relations, printed books, Rare_BooksLeave a comment Spinoza’s Death Mask, and Reflections on Working at the RBML Posted on July 29, 2021 (January 24, 2022) by Michelle Margolis Chesner Guest post by Marianna Najman-Franks, Barnard ’22. Marianna has done incredible work in the last three years participating in various projects to provide important access to the Judaica collections. Over the past 3 years I’ve been a part of so many incredible projects at the RBML, but by far the most exciting moment I’ve been […] Read More… Posted in UncategorizedTagged students9 Comments Learning from the crowd: the CULHebrewmss Twitter bot Posted on June 8, 2021 (June 8, 2021) by Michelle Margolis Chesner In 2018, we decided to partner with a developer named Russel Neiss to create an automated Twitter account that randomly selects and posts images from the Hebrew manuscript collection on the Internet Archive. In doing so, we have not only made the manuscripts available to an audience that includes people who could not or would […] Read More… Posted in Primary Sources, UncategorizedTagged Bibliography, crowdsourcing, digitization, Hebrew_mss@cul, manuscripts, social_media2 Comments New Acquisition Roundup: Rare and Digital Posted on May 27, 2021 (May 27, 2021) by Michelle Margolis Chesner Special Collections: Although many people have been away from campus over the last year, there has been a significant increase of books available in the Judaica collection at the Rare Book and Manuscript Library. Some books are newly arrived on campus, while others, like a work with a list of English cantillation marks and descriptions, […] Read More… Posted in UncategorizedLeave a comment Salo Baron and Columbia’s Judaica Collections Posted on April 21, 2021 by Michelle Margolis Chesner This essay was initially published in the Institute for Israel and Jewish Studies‘ Spring 2021 newsletter. It is copied here with permission. Salo Baron’s impact on Jewish Studies in America is widely known. Less well known, however, is the impact he made in building the Judaica collection at Columbia University. Soon after Baron’s arrival at […] Read More… Posted in UncategorizedLeave a comment Chanting the Torah Through the Centuries Posted on February 28, 2021 (March 30, 2021) by Michelle Margolis Chesner When the Torah is read in the synagogue, there is a distinct tune that is used for the traditional chanting. It is called cantillation in English, trop in Yiddish and te’amim in Hebrew, and is indicated in the Hebrew Bible by various symbols above and below the letters. Medieval manuscripts often included the masorah, a […] Read More… Posted in UncategorizedLeave a comment 1 2 3 … 14 » Search Subscribe! Leave This Blank:Leave This Blank Too:Do Not Change This: Your email: Tags AJHS American Amsterdam Archives Bible Bibliography Bitton_Yoram Books Carlebach_Elisheva censors databases digital e-books Early modern faculty_publications France Full-text Germany Hebrew_mss@cul Hebrew_printing Holocaust immigration Incunabula Israel Italy Jewish-Christian relations JSTOR JTS kabbalah Ladino lectures manuscripts medieval New Aquisitions newspapers Nuremburg trials Primary Sources Projects Rare_Books RBML Secondary Sources students The_People_In_The_Books World War II Yiddish Recent Posts Manuscripts and Printed Books – all bound up New and newly cataloged manuscripts from around the world Neighbors and Strangers: Jews, Christians, and Blood in 1670 Metz Places and Spaces, Sights and Sounds in the N.E. Alexander Library Censorship gone wild: Painting over liturgical prayers New books about Jews at CUL (Re)Born in the USA : how America saved my life June 1, 2022 Title: (Re)Born in the USA : how America saved my life Author: Bennett, Roger, 1970- Published: New York : Dey Street, 2021. Online: Audiobooks on EBSCOhost Bennett, Roger, 1970- Day after night [electronic resource] : a novel June 1, 2022 Title: Day after night [electronic resource] : a novel Author: Diamant, Anita Published: New York : Scribner, 2009. Online: Audiobooks on EBSCOhost Diamant, Anita Latent memory : human rights and Jewish identity in Pinochet's Chile June 1, 2022 Title: Latent memory : human rights and Jewish identity in Pinochet's Chile Author: Lowy, Maxine Published: Madison, Wisconsin : The University of Wisconsin Press, [2022] ©2022 Online: JSTOR eBooks: DDA Title List Lowy, Maxine Poisoned wells : accusations, persecution, and minorities in medieval Europe, 1321-1422 June 1, 2022 Title: Poisoned wells : accusations, persecution, and minorities in medieval Europe, 1321-1422 Author: Barzilay, Tzafrir Published: Philadelphia, Pa. : University of Pennsylvania Press, 2022. Location: Butler Stacks D202 .B37 2021 Barzilay, Tzafrir Becoming ordinary : a youth born of the holocaust, what i kept, what i let go ... : a memoir June 1, 2022 Title: Becoming ordinary : a youth born of the holocaust, what i kept, what i let go ... : a memoir Author: Fox, Michael Published: New York, N.Y. : Small Pringt Press, 2021. Location: For Offsite DS115.9.F69 A3 2021g Fox, Michael Yeni İsrailiyat : Doğu'da İsrail ve Yahudi çalışmaları June 1, 2022 Title: Yeni İsrailiyat : Doğu'da İsrail ve Yahudi çalışmaları Published: İstanbul : Libra, 2020. Location: For Offsite DS115.95 .Y46 2020g CLIO Yehudah ha-shevuyah : Roma ṿeha-Yehudim le-aḥar ha-ḥurban = Rome and the Jews after the destruction of the Temple June 1, 2022 Title: Yehudah ha-shevuyah : Roma ṿeha-Yehudim le-aḥar ha-ḥurban = Rome and the Jews after the destruction of the Temple Author: Lopez, Doron Published: Yerushalayim : Merkaz Zalman Shazar le-ḥeḳer toldot ha-ʻam ha-Yehudi, [2021] Location: For Offsite DS122.9 .L667 2021g Lopez, Doron CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us