Skip to content My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News Libraries Spotlight BLOG Category: Workshops & Training Exploring Podcasting and Journal Publishing with the Columbia Community Posted on September 16, 2021 (September 16, 2021) by Abbey Lovell Written by Digital Publishing Librarian Michelle Wilson. This fall, the Digital Publishing program invites students and faculty across the academic community to partner with Columbia University Libraries to publish research through the Podcasting and Journal Publishing programs. The programs provide educational opportunities, access to technologies, and publishing services to professionally and impactfully share research stories […] Read More… Posted in Events and Exhibits, Tools & Tips, Workshops & TrainingTagged academic journals, digital scholarship, journals publishing program, News, Podcast Essentials, podcasting Columbia University Libraries Announces Studio Remote Posted on November 19, 2020 by Abbey Lovell Columbia University Libraries’ Studio, a space and practice that enables and promotes collaborative, ethical, fair, and sustainable digital and data-driven research and pedagogy, now streams ideas and projects on Twitch. The Studio, led by Digital Scholarship Librarian Alex Gil and Research Data Librarian Moacir P. de Sá Pereira, adapted its programming to a virtual learning […] Read More… Posted in Workshops & TrainingTagged digital humanities, digital scholarship, News, Rose Hall Plantation, Studio Butler, Studio Lehman, Studio Remote1 Comment R Open Lab Fall 2018 – Randomness and linear regression Posted on November 27, 2018 (March 3, 2020) by Brett In today’s open lab, we didn’t cover a lot. We first looked at how to generate random samples with certain conditions. Then we did an easy example of linear regression in R. The purpose of this lab is to let attendants understand how randomness works in R and how to use linear regression model for […] Read More… Posted in Workshops & TrainingTagged R Open Lab R Open Lab Fall 2018 – R Shiny Posted on November 24, 2018 (March 3, 2020) by hj2473 If you still haven’t got any idea of how amazing and powerful R can be, here is the time. In this open lab, I introduce my favourite part of R —- R shiny, which is a package to bulid interactive web app for data visualization, dashboard, map interaction and so on. I start from showing […] Read More… Posted in Workshops & TrainingTagged R Open Lab Python Open Lab November 9 Posted on November 19, 2018 (March 3, 2020) by ks3611 This week we learned pandas, which is a package built on top of Numpy. It has Dataframe as its core data structure which is very useful for dealing with table data. Dataframe is made up of multidimensional arrays with rows and columns. It supports heterogeneous types and missing data, which is a great feature. Pandas […] Read More… Posted in Workshops & Training Introduction to R 'plm' package (3) Posted on November 16, 2018 (March 3, 2020) by Wei Yin In the ‘plm’ package blog (2), we’ve gotten regression outputs for both fixed and random effect models. One common question after getting regression output is to figure out which model should be chosen using Hausman test. The fixed effect output is names as “grun.fe” and the random effect output is names as “grun.re”. The function […] Read More… Posted in Workshops & TrainingTagged R R Open Lab Fall 2018 – Data manipulation Posted on November 13, 2018 (March 3, 2020) by Brett Today we covered the topic of data manipulation. We first reviewed the basic ways to subset data frames such as logical expression and subset function. Then, we looked at ways to combine, merge, and split data frames. Finally, we covered the usage of package plyr. Here is the link to our open lab’s GitHub repository: https://github.com/wbh0912/R-Open-Lab-Fall-2018 […] Read More… Posted in Workshops & TrainingTagged R Open Lab Python Open Lab November 2 Posted on November 10, 2018 (March 3, 2020) by ks3611 This week we learned about File IO. IO means input and output. So the content is basically about reading and writing file. Before doing any operations on file, we need to open the file. The command is open(filename, mode). ‘filename’ need to include the path of file. There are two ways to show the path, […] Read More… Posted in Workshops & Training Python Open Lab October 26 Posted on November 10, 2018 (March 3, 2020) by ks3611 This week we learned functions, which is very important for programmers. Functions are useful for procedural decomposition, maximize code reuse and minimize redundancy. Functions should be declared like a variable before using. def function(parameter1, parameter2…): do something return value ‘def’ is the keyword to show that we are defining a function. ‘function’ can be replaced […] Read More… Posted in Workshops & Training Python Open Lab October 19 Posted on November 10, 2018 (March 3, 2020) by ks3611 This week we mainly learned about condition statements. First we learned how to read user-input from console by using function input(). Input() can introduce user input to our program so user can define some values and program can get that. Then we looked at the definition of condition statement, which means when condition is met, […] Read More… Posted in Workshops & Training 1 2 3 … 12 » Search Category RSS Feeds Ask a Librarian (2) CLIO Tips (13) Events and Exhibits (148) Featured E-Resources (15) Government Information (3) Hours (5) New E-Resources (36) News (1) Research Tips (7) Tools & Tips (75) Uncategorized (1) Using the Libraries (76) We Are Your Library (18) Workshops & Training (118) Blogroll Avery Library Blog Butler Library Blog CLIO Columbia Center for Oral History Columbia University Libraries Columbia University Libraries Facebook Columbia University Libraries News Columbia University Libraries Twitter Global Studies Blog Jewish Studies Blog Journalism Library Blog News & Notes from RBML The Long View Watson Business & Economics Library Blog CUL Blogs Home CUL Blogs Dashboard 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 | Telephone (212) 854-7309 | Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us