Menu Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply Now Make a Gift Clemson Online - Where Tech and Teaching Meet Recent Posts All Posts Effective Textbook Use May 30, 2022 Effective Textbook Use When using a textbook for your course, it is easy to lean on it as the main […] Follow Up Friday May 27, 2022 Follow Up Friday: from the archives, ICYMI, & upcoming events From the Archives A recurring topic and an area of […] Designing Backward May 23, 2022 Course Objectives and Backward Design Backward Design is an intentional means of constructing your course; you identify the ultimate objectives […] Follow Up Friday May 20, 2022 Follow Up Friday: from the archives, ICYMI, & upcoming events From the Archives: Wherever you teach and however you […] Kaltura Advanced May 16, 2022 Reintroducing Kaltura Are you ready for Kaltura? If not, don't worry! We want to reintroduce you to Kaltura and remind […] Follow Up Friday: Reflecting on Spring ’22 May 13, 2022 Reflection Exercise: Successes, Exhaustion, and Areas for Growth Now that the semester has come to a close, we can breathe a […] About Clemson Online - Where Tech and Teaching Meet Welcome to the Clemson Online blog, where tech and teaching meet! You'll find posts about online teaching and learning, technology, upcoming events, and more. How can we help you make the most of online education? Visit our website at: http://www.clemson.edu/online Visit our website at the links below for more: Workshop/Training Calendar COFFEE Canvas Training Series Tools Page: Zoom, LDB, Kaltura, & More! Self-enroll in our Faculty Resource Center for up to the semester information about online teaching at Clemson: Faculty Resource Center (in Canvas) Click on the icons below to check out our social media channels: Most Popular Tags #WTTM where tech and teaching meet Clemson Online Canvas Follow Up Friday FUF COFFEE Accessibility Quick Hits Zoom Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google Plus Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram