SEARCH About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors A to Z Index People Directory Social@Brown Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google+ Computer Science About About the Department Contact Directions Partners Rooms Systems & Software Conduit Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Positions Brown CS News Events Brown CS Blog People Our Community Faculty Staff Grad Students Ugrad Students Alums Directory Research Research Links Areas Publications Opportunities For Visiting Students Degrees Degree Programs Doctoral Master's in Computer Science Cybersecurity Undergraduate Interdisciplinary Miscellaneous Courses Course List Schedule Sections TA Program Diversity Diversity & Inclusion Who We Are Resources Action Plan & Initiatives Student Advocates Data And Demographics Student Groups Giving UTA Endowment Brown CS Blog Awards Diversity Socially Responsible Computing Brown CS Blog Categories Diversity ( 65 articles ) Awards ( 22 articles ) Socially Responsible Computing ( 10 articles ) Brown CS Adopts Software Created By Alum Gaurav Manek To Improve PhD Visit Logistics Posted by Charlie Clynes on May 20, 2022 “As a software developer,” says Brown CS alum Gaurav Manek, “it is your duty to society to make sure that your code is reliable and doesn’t fall apart.” For the last four years, Gaurav — now a PhD student at Carnegie Mellon University — has been developing Visigoth, a piece of software that automatically creates schedules based on the availability of participants. Now, Brown CS and a number of departments at other universities are adopting the software to handle the logistics that surround PhD visit days. read more » A Letter To The Class Of 2022 Posted by Jesse Polhemus on May 18, 2022 Congratulations! We are very proud of your achievements! The theme of this letter is inspired by an artistic work created by one of our Computer Science graduates of the Class of 2020. read more » Brown CS Graduates Build An Online Learning Community For URM Students Posted by Jesse Polhemus on March 8, 2022 in Socially Responsible Computing, Diversity To promote diversity and inclusion in computer science, Brown CS graduates Luna Ito-Fisher ’21 and Ambika Miglani ’21 founded Decrypted By Us, an online learning community for underrepresented students interested in tech. read more » A Look Into A Missing Piece In The Global Digital Divide Puzzle Posted by Jesse Polhemus on Feb. 28, 2022 Recent studies show that, in developing regions (e.g. Africa and Southeast Asia), fast internet connectivity lifted approximately 2.5 million people out of extreme poverty [1] and techniques to improve web performance (e.g. Google’s AMP) improved profit by 20% [2]. Given these studies, it is unsurprising that significant work and effort have gone into improving connectivity in these regions. These efforts range from improving the mobile networks (from 2G to 4G and now 5G) and improving networking infrastructure to reducing the cost of mobile data rates and increasing the amount of local language content. Although these efforts offer tremendous benefits, a … read more » Exploring The Rise Of The Metaverse: Final Projects From Brown's CSCI 1951C Designing Humanity Centered Robots Posted by Eli Pullaro on Jan. 10, 2022 This past Fall, 2021 semester in CSCI 1951C Designing Humanity Centered Robots, students explored how emerging technologies might shape our lives in the near future. They did this through designing and building working prototypes that explore the “how” and “why” of new technologies. The class is taught by Ian Gonsher, Assistant Professor of the Practice in the School of Engineering and Department of Computer Science at Brown University. His course attempts to foster a creative, collaborative environment for students that allows for the development of working prototypes that integrate both hardware and software. read more » Brown CS Alum Jina Yoon Receives An NSF CSGrad4US Fellowship Posted by Eli Pullaro on Dec. 4, 2021 in Awards Brown CS alum Jina Yoon has had an accomplished career thus far and continues to succeed and grow in the tech industry. One of her recent honors is being awarded the Computer and Information Science and Engineering Graduate Fellowship 2021. This NSF CSGrad4US fellowship aims to increase the number of diverse, domestic graduate students pursuing careers in the fields of computer science, computer engineering, or information science. More specifically, CSGrad4US offers an opportunity for bachelor degree holders who are working in industry, like Jina, to return to academia and pursue research-based doctoral degrees. The fellowship is a two year-long preparation … read more » Diverse Career Paths: Brown CS Alum Eleanor Tursman's Fellowship Integrates Tech Into Policy Posted by Eli Pullaro on Dec. 3, 2021 Just because someone graduates with a Computer Science degree doesn’t mean they’re destined for a life of programming, with little input on the government policies that might affect their work. TechCongress, a unique program that enables technologists to advise Members of Congress on technology policy, is just one example of the many unique opportunities there are for CS graduates. Brown CS alum Eleanor Tursman was a “CS graduate student that didn’t like to code”. TechCongress has given her the opportunity to apply her knowledge to something she feels could make a huge difference. read more » Diverse Career Paths: Brown CS Alum Jemma Issroff Works On Ruby And Strives For Ethical Impact Posted by Eli Pullaro on Nov. 29, 2021 in Socially Responsible Computing "One huge highlight of my work is the effect and impact my projects have had on others,” says Brown CS alum Jemma Issroff, whose career path has allowed her to work on a wide variety of projects as podcast host, author, and backend software developer. She’s an excellent example of someone who’s able to work on highly technical challenges while still having an effect on the communities that matter to her. After several different experiences as a programmer, Jemma has found a home at Shopify, doing work that she feels has a true impact on users. read more » Brown CS Alum Irv Lustig Has Been Named An INFORMS Fellow Posted by Eli Pullaro on Nov. 22, 2021 in Awards Irv Lustig ‘83 P’13, a Brown CS alum, has been named one of twelve 2021 INFORMS Fellows, an acknowledgement of a lifetime of achievement. INFORMS Fellows are examples of significant contributors in operations research and the management sciences, and Irv’s award comes from having demonstrated exceptional accomplishments as both an academic and in the optimization software industry. Irv has also contributed via service to the profession by volunteering on numerous INFORMS committees, including starting a project to do oral history interviews of luminaries in operations research. As many of Irv's INFORMS colleagues have written, Irv’s recognition was long overdue. read more » Bot Quite Sure Posted by Jesse Polhemus on Nov. 15, 2021 in Socially Responsible Computing My name is Madeline Greenberg and I am the Project Manager for ‘Choreorobotics 0101’ – the first course to be cross-listed across the TAPS and CS departments. I have been organizing the Choreorobotics Initiative at Brown for the past 6 months, corralling teams of undergraduate and graduate students, faculty and staff as we work to develop the course’s curriculum. Choreorobotics is novel. What that means is that we don’t know what we’re doing. We are each experts, incredibly competent and hard working in various fields including but not limited to choreographics and robotics, but we’re entirely making this up as … read more » Page 1 of 43 next » Computer Science at Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912 USA Phone: 401-863-7600 Map & Directions / Contact Us Sign In